The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Book Review Digest, Volume 13, 1917
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Book Review Digest, Volume 13, 1917

Author: Various

Editor: Margaret Jackson
        Mary Katharine Reely

Release date: December 17, 2016 [eBook #53750]
                Most recently updated: October 23, 2024

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Richard Tonsing, Juliet Sutherland and the
        Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOOK REVIEW DIGEST, VOLUME 13, 1917 ***

                                  THE
                           BOOK REVIEW DIGEST

                               THIRTEENTH
                           ANNUAL CUMULATION

                         REVIEWS OF 1917 BOOKS


                               EDITED BY
                            MARGARET JACKSON
                                  AND
                          MARY KATHARINE REELY


                        THE H. W. WILSON COMPANY
                                NEW YORK
                                  1918

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                         THE BOOK REVIEW DIGEST

 Vol. XIII                   February, 1918                       No. 12


                          PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY

                        THE H. W. WILSON COMPANY

                       958-964 University Avenue
                             New York City

    Entered as second class matter, November 13, 1917 at the Post Office
    at New York, under the act of Congress of March 3, 1879.


                           TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION

            One year                                  $10.00
            Single numbers                              1.00
            Semi-annual cumulation (August)             2.00
            Annual cumulated number, bound (February)   5.00


                            TERMS OF ADVERTISING

    Combined rate for Book Review Digest, Cumulative Book Index and
    Readers’ Guide to Periodical Literature—$35 per page per month; two
    of these publications $30; one of these publications $25 per page
    per month. Smaller space and contract rates furnished upon request.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Many minds and hands have contributed to the success of the Book Review
Digest in the year 1917. Descriptive notes have been written by Margaret
Jackson, Corinne Bacon, Justina Leavitt Wilson and Mary Katharine Reely.
Classification numbers have been assigned by Corinne Bacon. The
editorship has been divided between Margaret Jackson and Mary Katharine
Reely, Miss Jackson leaving at the end of October to assume new duties
on the staff of the New York Public Library School. Thruout the year the
tasks of assembling material, preparing copy, and meeting the exacting
demands of proof and press work have been carried on by Pauline H. Rich
and Alice Sterling, and, on the business side, the correspondence which
keeps us in touch with advertisers, publishers and subscribers has been
ably handled by Frances Sanville. Credit for the supplementary List of
Documents published with each issue goes to Adelaide R. Hasse and Edna
B. Gearhart of the New York Public Library. For the Quarterly List of
New Technical Books, to the Applied Science Reference Department of
Pratt Institute Free Library, Brooklyn.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Who reads reviews? Much thought, scholarship and wit goes to their
writing. Is a corresponding measure of appreciation given to the
reading?

At first thought it might be assumed that it is the business of the
Digest to discourage the reading of reviews, but we should vigorously
deny any such accusation. The excerpts which we carefully cull and bring
together for purposes of contrast and comparison are meant to serve as
guide posts only; to serve as guides to the busy persons who make books
their business. But we should be sorry to think that we were in any way
detracting from the enjoyment of those to whom books should be a
pleasure. We should be glad to feel that even the rushed, overworked
librarian to whom our publication is a “tool” might occasionally find
her curiosity so piqued by our judiciously selected quotation that she
would turn back to the pages of the Nation or the Dial or the New
Republic or the Spectator to read the review as a whole. It has pleased
us to be told this year that in two of the larger libraries of the
country the Digest is kept on file in the periodical room. From the
testimony of these two libraries it appears that reviews are read and
that demands for them come to the librarian. “Where can I find a review
of ——,” and the Digest is referred to for answer. This public use of the
Digest gives sanction to a new practice which we have somewhat
tentatively adopted this year, that of starring (*) certain reviews. An
asterisk so used means, generally speaking, Here is something worth
reading. It may mean, if the book is a serious work of information, that
the reviewer, also an expert on the subject of the book, throws further
light on it; it may mean, in case of a work of literature, Here is an
excellent piece of literary criticism, worth your reading for its own
sake.

Signs of any kind are so seldom noticed that we call special attention
to this one, and, even tho we know that prefaces are so seldom read, we
trust that the notice will come to the attention of some one who will
find this feature useful.

We should like to feel that the Digest itself, with its interesting
assemblage of contrasting opinions, would be of value to the reading
public if it were occasionally handed out over the desk to inquiring
readers. Indeed one flattering friend has advised us to issue a special
edition in larger type for sale on the news stands! But altho this
course hardly seems practicable, we believe that in its present form,
the Digest might be of some general interest and that if it were made
more accessible it might act as an influence in the formation of
critical taste. Even the inveterate reader of fiction might be helped by
it, and to the more thoughtful it would serve as a guide to a course of
reading in literary criticism.




          Publications from which Digests of Reviews are Made


 Am. Econ. R.—American Economic Review. $5. American Economic
    Association, Ithaca, N. Y.
 Am. Hist. R.—American Historical Review. $4. Macmillan Company, 66
    Fifth Ave., New York.
 Am. J. Soc.—American Journal of Sociology. $2. University of Chicago
    Press, Chicago, Ill.
 Am. J. Theol.—American Journal of Theology. $3. University of Chicago
    Press, Chicago, Ill.
 A. L. A. Bkl.—A. L. A. Booklist. $1. A. L. A. Publishing Board, 78 E.
    Washington St., Chicago, Ill.
 Am. Pol. Sci. R.—American Political Science Review. $3. American
    Political Science Ass’n, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
 Ann. Am. Acad.—Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
    Science. $6. 36th St. and Woodland Ave., Philadelphia, Pa.
 Astrophys. J.—Astrophysical Journal. $5. University of Chicago Press,
    Chicago, Ill.
 Ath.—Athenæum. $4. Bream’s Buildings, Chancery Lane, E. C., London.
 Atlan.—Atlantic Monthly. $4. Atlantic Monthly Company, 3 Park St.,
    Boston, Mass.
 Bib. World.—Biblical World. $2. University of Chicago Press, Chicago,
    Ill.
 Bookm.—Bookman. $3. Dodd, Mead & Co., 4th Ave. & 30th St., New York.
 Bot. Gaz.—Botanical Gazette. $7. University of Chicago Press, Chicago,
    Ill.
 Cath. World—Catholic World. $3. 120-122 W. 60th St., New York.
 Class. J.—Classical Journal. $2.50. University of Chicago Press,
    Chicago, Ill.
 Class. Philol.—Classical Philology. $3. University of Chicago Press,
    Chicago, Ill.
 Dial—Dial. $3. 608 S. Dearborn St., Chicago, Ill.
 Educ. R.—Educational Review. $3. Educational Review Pub. Co., Columbia
    Univ., N. Y.
 Elec. World—Electrical World. $3. McGraw-Hill Company, Inc., 10th Ave.
    at 36th St., New York.
 El. School J.—Elementary School Journal (continuing Elementary School
    Teacher). $1.50. University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Ill.
 Engin. News-Rec.—Engineering News-Record. $5. McGraw-Hill Company,
    Inc., 10th Ave. at 36th St., New York.
 Eng. Hist. R.—English Historical Review. $6. Longmans, Green & Co., 39
    Paternoster Row, London, E. C.
 Forum—Forum. $2.50. Forum Publishing Co., 286 Fifth Ave., New York.
 Hibbert J.—Hibbert Journal. $2.50. Sherman, French & Co., 6 Beacon St.,
    Boston, Mass.
 Ind.—Independent. $4. 119 W. 40th St., New York.
 Int. J. Ethics—International Journal of Ethics. $2.50. Prof. James S.
    Tufts, Univ. of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
 Int. Studio—International Studio. $5. John Lane Co., 116-120 West 32d
    St., New York.
 J. Geol.—Journal of Geology. $4. University of Chicago Press, Chicago,
    Ill.
 J. Philos.—Journal of Philosophy, Psychology and Scientific Methods.
    $3. Sub-Station 84, New York.
 J. Pol. Econ.—Journal of Political Economy. $3. University of Chicago
    Press, Chicago, Ill.
 Lit. D.—Literary Digest. $3. Funk & Wagnalls Co., 354-360 Fourth Ave.,
    New York.
 Nation—Nation. $4. P. O. Box 794, New York.
 Nature—Nature. $7.75. Macmillan Company, 66 Fifth Ave., New York.
 New Repub.—New Republic. $4. Republic Publishing Co., Inc., 421 W. 21st
    St., New York.
 N. Y. Times—New York Times Book Review. $1. Times Square, New York.
 No. Am.—North American Review. $4. North American Review Pub. Co., 171
    Madison Ave., New York.
 Outlook—Outlook. $4. Outlook Co., 381 4th Ave., New York.
 Pol. Sci. Q.—Political Science Quarterly. $5 (including supplement).
    Academy of Political Science, Columbia Univ., New York.
 Pub. W.—Publishers’ Weekly. $5. 241 W. 37th St., New York.
 R. of Rs.—American Review of Reviews. $3. Review of Reviews Co., 30
    Irving Place, New York.
 Sat. R.—Saturday Review. $8. 10 King St., Covent Garden, London, W. C.
 School R.—School Review. $1.50. University of Chicago Press, Chicago,
    Ill.
 Science, n. s.—Science (new series). $5. Science Press, Sub-Station 84,
    New York.
 Spec.—Spectator. $8. 1 Wellington St., Strand, London, W. C.
 Springf’d Republican—Springfield Republican. $10. The Republican,
    Springfield, Mass.
 Survey—Survey. $3. Survey Associates, Inc., 112 E. 19th St., New York.
 The Times [London] Lit. Sup.—The Times Literary Supplement. $2.10. The
    Times, North American office, 30 Church St., New York.
 Yale R., n. s.—Yale Review (new series). $2.50. Yale Publishing Ass’n,
    120 High St., New Haven, Conn.

In addition to the above list the Book Review Digest frequently quotes
from Henry Turner Bailey’s reviews in the School Arts Magazine; Boston
Transcript; New York Call; Cleveland Open Shelf; N. Y. Best Books; N. Y.
Libraries; N. Y. City Branch Library News; New York Public Library New
Technical Books (a selected list, published quarterly); Pittsburgh
Monthly Bulletin; Pratt Institute Quarterly Book List; St. Louis Monthly
Bulletin; Wisconsin Library Bulletin (Book Selection Dept.), and the
Quarterly List of New Technical and Industrial Books chosen by the Pratt
Institute Library.



                          OTHER ABBREVIATIONS:

=Abbreviations of publishers’ names= will be found in the Publishers’
Directory at the end of the Annual, 1916 number.

=An asterisk (*) before the price= indicates those books sold at a
limited discount and commonly known as net books.

=The figures= following publisher’s name represent the class number and
Library of Congress card number.

=The descriptive note= is separated from critical notices of a book by a
dash.

=The plus and minus signs= preceding the names of the magazine indicate
the degrees of favor or disfavor of the entire review.

=An asterisk (*) before the plus or minus sign= indicates that the
review contains useful information about the book.

=In the reference to a magazine=, the first number refers to the volume,
the next to the page, the letters to the date and the last figures to
the number of words in the review.




                           Book Review Digest
             Devoted to the Valuation of Current Literature
                         Reviews of 1917 Books




                                   A


=ABBOTT, EDITH, and BRECKINRIDGE, SOPHONISBA PRESTON.= Truancy and
non-attendance in the Chicago schools. *$2 Univ. of Chicago press 379.2
17-3577

  “‘Truancy and non-attendance in the Chicago schools’ carries the tale
  of public education—‘the most important subject that we as a people
  can be engaged in’—through its vivid history in the second city in the
  United States, from the establishment of our free schools to the
  present day, indeed it may be said, to the last authentic news on the
  topic in the present day. ... Beginning with a picturesque survey of
  the struggle for the ‘free-school’ principle (1818-55), the chronicle
  continues with a relation of the main events of the struggle for the
  compulsory principle (1855-83) ‘when the first compulsory law was
  passed,’ and closes with a record of the various activities
  characterizing the period, still continuing, ‘of struggle for the
  perfection of the compulsory law.’”—Dial

  “This book should be carefully read by every administrative officer in
  charge of the enforcement of school attendance or child labor laws,
  and also by every person who contemplates the difficult task of
  drafting such legislation. Practically every feature of the system
  recommended for Illinois is in effect in one or more other states.” H.
  L. Sumner

       + =Am Econ R= 7:409 Je ‘17 750w

  Reviewed by E. L. Talbert

       + =Am J Soc= 22:839 My ‘17 370w

  “A clear, logical and interesting study, illustrated with the case
  histories of many children, of value to social workers and specially
  to educators. A companion volume to ‘The delinquent child in the home’
  (Booklist 9:9 S ‘12).”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:374 Je ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p108 S ‘17 30w

  “Of especial interest for two reasons. Because it forms a striking
  comment on a characteristic American weakness—our failure to
  realize—our inability to follow up with sustained attention or even
  with intelligent curiosity the vital social experiments made, or
  perhaps one should say the vital social experiments mentioned as
  mandatory, by our statute-books. It is of interest also because of its
  description of our inability to correlate juvenile laws whose joint
  efficiency should guarantee a child a fair opportunity for education.”
  Edith Wyatt

       + =Dial= 62:310 Ap 5 ‘17 1650w

         =Educ R= 54:94 Je ‘17 50w

  “By far the most extensive study of the kind that has yet been made
  for any American city. ... The recommendations are reasonable and
  conservative. ... The book is therefore written from the social
  worker’s sympathetic point of view rather than from the frequently
  more circumscribed, and usually somewhat different, point of view of
  the professional school man. It is a model of rigorous scientific
  study of the questions involved that ought to be of large
  suggestiveness to other cities in their making of similar studies.” J.
  F. Bobbitt

       + =El School J= 17:771 Je ‘17 550w

  “It is likely that the book will result in an important improvement of
  the child labor law in Illinois.” J. H. T.

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:535 Jl ‘17 100w

  “The question of how to make compulsory education laws and child labor
  laws jointly effective is so important that light upon it is to be
  welcomed from every quarter. The experience of Illinois with such
  legislation is that of one of the most advanced states; it is
  described by two experienced workers in the Chicago School of civics
  and philanthropy in a manner that goes well outside the field
  suggested by the title.”

       + =Nation= 104:438 Ap 12 ‘17 230w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:691 O ‘17 90w

         =Pratt= p15 O ‘17 40w

  “A story competently told with adequate documentation, not essentially
  different from that which could be presented for most parts of the
  country during the same periods. The accomplishment of this book is to
  take public schooling out of its antiquated and still somewhat
  academic atmosphere, and out of the outworn but persistent habits and
  concepts of the earlier American community, to present it in the light
  of the social background in which it belongs today, and compel the
  reader to realize that the education of the children of our great
  cities demands consistent thinking and courageous following up of its
  implications and honest common sense in administration.” G: H. Mead

       + =Survey= 38:369 Jl 28 ‘17 1350w


=ABBOTT, ELEANOR HALLOWELL (MRS FORDYCE COBURN).= Stingy receiver. il
*$1 (4c) Century 17-7926

  A middle-aged woman who is tired of spending her wealth on people who
  receive grudgingly, a young doctor and a beautiful and radiant young
  girl who rejoices in the name of Solvei Kjelland, are the characters
  in this little story. The rich woman is ill. The young doctor is
  trying to cure her. The rich woman is offered one wish. This is what
  she wished: “That the last mail of the day may never leave me utterly
  letterless; and that I may always be expecting a package by express!”
  The story was published as a serial in the Woman’s Home Companion.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:353 My ‘17

  “The story is possible but we cannot escape from the feeling that it
  is wildly improbable. The young doctor is the one real character in a
  world of phantoms. ... Although it possesses a certain amount of charm
  in the telling it lacks conviction.”

     – + =Boston Transcript= p13 Ap 7 ‘17 280w

       + =Ind= 90:594 Je 30 ‘17 40w

  “It is a gay and sweet little story, unusual in its beginning, happy
  in the way it ends, entertaining and sympathetic throughout the
  progress of its pretty romance. It is full of laughter, and it has
  touches, especially in unexpected bits here and there about the older
  woman, of tenderness.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:99 Mr 18 ‘17 270w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Mr 25 ‘17 250w


=ABBOTT, GEORGE FREDERICK.= Turkey, Greece and the great powers; a study
in friendship and hate. maps *$3 (3c) McBride 949 17-7959

  The two parts of this book are quite distinct. In part 1 chapters
  devoted to France and the Turks, Russia and the Turks, England and the
  Turks, and The Germanic powers and Turkey are followed by a discussion
  of Turkey’s choice in the present war. “While the practical statesman
  must deplore the effects of that choice,” says the author, “the
  philosophical onlooker will derive a certain cold satisfaction from
  its perfect logicality. The capricious hand of chance had nothing to
  do with it. It all came about in strict accordance with the law of
  causation. Each side reaped precisely what it had sown.” The treatment
  of Greece and the powers in part 2 is similar. The historical
  relationship of Greece to each of the great powers at war is studied
  at some length in order that her position and attitude at the present
  time may be understood. The policy of the Allies toward Greece since
  the beginning of the war is characterized as stupid and blundering,
  producing an effect exactly opposite from that desired. Mr Abbott was
  a war correspondent in the Turko-Italian war and published a book on
  “The holy war in Tripoli.” He is also author of “Turkey in
  transition.”

  “Very readable, it gives a better understanding of the Near East
  problem. Many references and a page list of source material.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:16 O ‘17

  “The last chapter, ‘The moral suasion of Greece,’ is an excellent
  study of popular sentiment.” C. H. P. Thurston

       + =Bookm= 46:289 N ‘17 40w

  “The author is more convincing in his historical statements, for which
  he invariably cites his authorities, than he is in his judgments of
  contemporary policies. The book is certainly a valuable contribution
  to a better understanding of the Near East problem. There are two
  maps; one of Turkey in Europe at its zenith, published about 1680, and
  the other is of the Balkans today.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 My 2 ‘17 730w

       + =Dial= 63:164 Ag 30 ‘17 420w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:91 Je ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:824 D ‘17 60w

  “So far as it professes to be a historical examination of the
  relations between Turkey and Greece and the great powers the book is
  defective and badly planned. ... Mr Abbott brought to his task much
  familiarity with Balkan countries, an incisive style, and an evident
  capacity for laborious research. Yet the result is to some extent
  disappointing, for the book lacks balance and perspective. ... Yet,
  with all its faults, some sections of it serve a very useful purpose,
  and it is worth reading.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p51 F 1 ‘17 1350w


=ABBOTT, GRACE.= Immigrant and the community. *$1.50 (2c) Century 325.7
17-13469

  Our policy toward the immigrant has been one of laissez-faire. Miss
  Abbott’s purpose in this book is to show how, as a result, both the
  immigrant and the community have suffered, and to point out means for
  his protection and better adjustment to American life. The book is
  based in part on lectures given before the Chicago School of civics
  and philanthropy and consists of chapters on: The journey of the
  immigrant; The problem of finding a first “job”; The special problems
  of the immigrant girl; Protection against exploitation; The immigrant
  in the courts; The immigrant and the public health; The immigrant and
  the poverty problem; The immigrant and industrial democracy; The
  education of the immigrant; The immigrant in politics; The immigrant
  and American internationalism; The immigrant’s place in a social
  program. The author is a resident of Hull House and director of the
  Immigrants’ protective league of Chicago. Judge Julian W. Mack writes
  an introduction for the work.

  “No other existing book treats so fully or so well the problem of the
  woman immigrant. Admirable example of settlement house method and
  viewpoint. As a work of reference, particularly in statistics, needs
  to be used with caution.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:426 Jl ‘17

  “Miss Abbott has been able to put her evidence into readable form, to
  appeal to our common humanity and yet reveal that she is not blind to
  the problems involved. The volume is to be highly commended to all who
  are interested in immigration, and particularly to those who want to
  know the extent of our own failure to safeguard newcomers and help in
  their readjustment to our life.” C. K.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:302 N ‘17 210w

  “Miss Abbott’s plea is for adjustment rather than assimilation. In
  this respect she disagrees with the textbook writers, and perhaps with
  most staunch Americans. She believes that the immigrant brings a
  contribution to America which should be preserved. One of the most
  interesting of her many pertinent suggestions regarding immigrant
  adjustment is that we organize more carefully the potentialities for
  the development of an international understanding through immigration
  into this country and return migration.” L. L. Bernard

       + =Dial= 63:205 S 13 ‘17 1150w

       + =Ind= 91:186 Ag 4 ‘17 180w

  “It is not Grace Abbott’s facts, but her inferences, that will produce
  two opinions about her volume. ... The entire responsibility for the
  stranger within our gates she places squarely upon our shoulders.
  Perhaps, so long as we admit him, that position is arguable. But Miss
  Abbott will not allow us to lighten the burden by restricting
  immigration. ... Yet it might be urged that the immigrant himself
  would profit by a slower infiltration, which would prevent the growth
  of the huge foreign colonies which have hindered as well as aided his
  advance, and have created a special problem for a democracy already
  pretty well loaded up.”

         =Nation= 104:763 Je 28 ‘17 400w

  “The book fails in just one point. After piling on a tremendous
  indictment—an indictment that every American should read and
  ponder—there is no great general lesson drawn. These questions press
  for reply: What drives these hordes here? Should they continue to
  come? Should we let them in? If they have a right to come, then these
  further questions appear to need answer.” W: M. Feigenbaum

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Jl 15 ‘17 500w

  “Authoritative, incisive. The book cuts far below the surface alike of
  censure and of complacency. It offers the kind of information which,
  now perhaps as never before, every American needs.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:169 Ap 29 ‘17 600w

         =Pratt= p10 O ‘17 30w

  “Miss Abbott is director of the Immigrants’ protective league of
  Chicago, and has worked for the Massachusetts immigration commission.
  Her study of the problem has included visits to some of the most
  important European homes of the immigrant, notably, Galicia, Croatia
  and the Slovak districts of Hungary and Bohemia. It is from her own
  experiences and knowledge of the question that she has drawn in
  writing a discussion that is illuminating in its choice of incidents
  and sound in its suggestive conclusions.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 16 ‘17 600w

  “The only disappointing chapter of the book is that which deals with
  the immigrant and the public health.” B. L.

     + — =Survey= 38:372 Jl 28 ‘17 1200w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:153 My ‘17 70w


=ABDULLAH, ACHMED.= Bucking the tiger. *$1.35 (2½c) Shores 17-15283

  “Ritchie Macdonald finds himself ‘dead broke.’ ... Unable to borrow
  any money in Spokane, he evolves an original scheme to lift from him,
  and from the little group of men with whom he foregathers, the common
  burden of dead-brokeness. ‘There’s just one way, and I’ve pointed it
  out to you. We chip in—all of us—all but one—we buy a heavy life
  insurance for that one. He kills himself at the end of a year, and we
  divide the money.’ The adventurers agree and gamble to decide who
  shall be the one sacrificed. The lot falls to Mac himself. He sees to
  it that it does. Another clause has meanwhile been added to the
  agreement, whereby the prospective suicide is to be provided by his
  confrères with sufficient money to make this last year of his life one
  long enjoyment. ... Mac at once takes up quarters in the leading hotel
  of Spokane. ... Now enters the little manicurist, Emily Steeves. And
  soon Mac finds that the idea of suicide is growing less and less
  alluring. He becomes identified with certain large life insurance
  interests. Makes money rapidly. A plot is formed to discredit him. But
  he circumvents this plot, and gets out of the fulfillment of the
  suicide pact exactly as Emily declares he must, ‘without paying
  blackmail and without welshing.’”—Boston Transcript

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 360w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:86 Je ‘17

  “A slangy, but broadly amusing tale.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 150w


=ABT, ISAAC ARTHUR.= Baby’s food; recipes for the preparation of food
for infants and children. *$1.25 Saunders 613.22 17-19828

  The author, who is professor of diseases of children in the
  Northwestern university medical school, says in his foreword: “Young
  mothers, nurses, and caretakers frequently ask the physician for
  minute directions for the preparation of foods for infants and older
  children. I have attempted to collect from various sources recipes for
  the preparation of the most commonly employed foods. I undertook to do
  this primarily for my own convenience in prescribing for patients and
  meeting the repeated demand. I claim no originality in regard to the
  recipes, and acknowledge my indebtedness to various sources for
  information.” He appends a list of authorities in English and German
  and refers to practical help given by various women dietitians. In
  addition to the recipes, which are grouped by class and indexed, the
  book contains tables of Mineral constituents of the food, Caloric
  value of various foods, Diet lists (for children up to five years),
  Baths and packs, Tables of measurements, etc.

  “A good collection of recipes. ... For the intelligent mother.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:79 D ‘17

  “A most useful book for mothers, and one that will save many doctor’s
  bills.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:555 N ‘17 40w


=ACADEMY OF POLITICAL SCIENCE.= Labor disputes and public service
corporations; ed. by H: Raymond Mussey. (Proceedings, v. 7, no. 1) pa
$1.50 Acad. of political science 331.1 17-26392

  “This is a valuable survey of American, Canadian, and Australian
  experience in governmental mediation and arbitration, with statements
  of the attitude of the labor unions toward compulsory arbitration,
  mediation, and conciliation.”—R of Rs

         =Am Econ R= 7:411 Je ‘17 130w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:375 Je ‘17

  “The book is divided into four sections: (1) Government mediation and
  arbitration, (2) Trade unions and compulsory arbitration, (3) Trade
  unions and mediation and conciliation, (4) Recent aspects of labor
  disputes. The fourth section discusses arbitration of recent labor
  disputes and also the Adamson act, from the employees’, employers’ and
  public viewpoints.”

         =Engin N= 77:435 Mr 15 ‘17 90w

       + =R of Rs= 55:443 Ap ‘17 30w


=ACHARYA, ANANDA.= Brahmadarsanam; or, Intuition of the absolute. il
*$1.25 (2½c) Macmillan 181 17-24840

  An untechnical introduction to Hindu philosophy by Ananda Achārya. The
  author discusses the six systems of Hindu philosophy all of which
  differ from the philosophies of the rest of the world by presupposing
  that the soul is ultimate reality. His analysis leads up to a
  tabulation of the four states of our psychic life, viz. (1) waking, in
  which we are conscious of the outward universe; (2) dreaming, in which
  we are conscious of the inward universe; (3) dreamlessness, in which
  we are unconscious of the inward and outward universe; (4) Turiya, in
  which we are self-conscious in the absolute sense. The four states
  correspond to (1) conquest of the objective world of sense and
  emotion; (2) conquest of the subjective world of intellect and reason;
  (3) conquest of the subtile world in which the first two lie in seed
  form; (4) freedom in the identity of self with God, and the attainment
  of the absolute. His doctrine of error, expounded at some length and
  consisting in thinking of non-existence as existence, suggests the
  Christian science idea. The study is stimulating and inspirational.

  “Unqualified approval can scarcely be the meed of an author who
  professes to be scientific yet has no notion of history and no clear
  sense of the value of definition. These faults vitiate the
  ‘Brahmadarsanam.’ Despite these defects, the ‘general reader’ will
  learn a good deal from the Acharya’s book, and his exposition, albeit
  rather too flowery and poetical, of Hindu monism is, on the whole, to
  be approved.”

     + — =Nation= 106:97 Ja 24 ‘18 300w

       + =New Repub= 13:132 D 1 ‘17 130w

  “Sri Ananda Acharya is an excellent writer. He has a faculty for
  making the most abstract and profound subject absorbing and
  entertaining. His method is direct, concise, yet vivid and human.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:498 N 25 ‘17 220w

  “Brief and popular exposition of Hindu philosophical doctrine
  presented to us by a Hindu in terms which are not exposed to the
  suspicion of western or of Christian prejudice. His book is well worth
  reading. But we must repeat the caution that its teaching may mislead
  those who are unfamiliar with the phraseology and development of
  western speculation.”

     + — =Spec= 119:357 O 6 ‘17 1000w

  “Satisfactory to such as it satisfies. And others will take refuge in
  ‘common sense.’ Perhaps the better, or best, attitude is to welcome
  the book as offering an exposition of the Vedānta school of philosophy
  not readily to be found elsewhere in such clear and full detail.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p484 O 11 ‘17 950w


=ACKERMAN, CARL WILLIAM.= Germany, the next republic? il *$1.50 (3c)
Doran 940.91 17-17989

  In his preface the author makes the following somewhat surprising
  statement: “I believe that the United States by two years of patience
  and note writing, has done more to accomplish the destruction of
  militarism and to encourage freedom of thought in Germany than the
  Allies did during nearly three years of fighting.” He was in Germany
  as correspondent for the United press from March 1915 to the breaking
  off of diplomatic relations and he watched the progress of thought in
  Germany during that time. President Wilson’s notes started the people
  to thinking, but as the thinking did not go far enough, a crushing
  military defeat is now looked to as the only hope for a democracy in
  Germany. Contents: Mobilization of public opinion; “Pirates sink
  another neutral ship”; The gulf between Kiel and Berlin; The hate
  campaign against America; The downfall of von Tirpitz and von
  Falkenhayn; The period of new orientation; The bubbling economic
  volcano; The peace drive of December 12th; The Bernhardi of the seas;
  The outlawed nation; The United States at war; President Wilson. Among
  the illustrations are a number of interesting German cartoons.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:17 O ‘17

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

       + =Bookm= 46:289 N ‘17 20w

         =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 50w

  “We knew very little of Germany before the war, and we know
  practically nothing of what has been going on in that country since
  August, 1914. Our conception of the whole war is confined to some
  trite phrase, such as ‘democracy against autocracy.’ ... In view of
  this deplorable situation, it is fortunate that Mr Ackerman has
  written this book; it is a book that every American, and especially
  every American liberal, should find of the greatest value.” Ward Swain

       + =Dial= 63:104 Ag 16 ‘17 2750w

       + =Ind= 91:473 S 22 ‘17 300w

       + =Lit D= 55:34 S 29 ‘17 600w

  “When the more impartial post-bellum histories of the war are written,
  volumes like Mr Ackerman’s will have become invaluable source-books.
  And this solely because of the facts presented, not because of any
  insight. To disagree with Mr Ackerman’s interpretation of his facts
  does not necessarily imply that one maintains the opposed or
  pacifistic view. It means rather a criticism of his plausibility. So
  many flagrant inconsistencies appear in the book because, I believe,
  his viewpoint towards our entrance into the war is the result of a
  reasoned rather than a felt conviction. To reconcile his early
  statement that Wilson’s two years of diplomatic patience and appeal to
  public opinion did more to liberalize Germany than all of England’s
  and France’s attacks in the field with his later statement that only a
  crushing military victory for the Allies will free Germany of her
  autocratic rulers—such a task would require more dialectical skill
  than Mr Ackerman possesses.” H. S.

   + – — =New Repub= 13:129 D 1 ‘17 1950w

  “The author, who stayed in Germany during the last two years of the
  war and whose dispatches to the American press betrayed a keen insight
  in German public affairs, offers mainly a description of the internal
  struggle between the Bethmann-Hollweg and the Tirpitz factions and its
  reaction upon American foreign policy. While in general his judgment
  is reliable, his description of Bethmann-Hollweg as leading the
  democratic forces can hardly be called well-chosen.” J. Koettgen

       + =N Y Call= p14 Jl 8 ‘17 880w

  “One of the most illuminating phases of his book is the view he gives
  of the discussion and division of opinion among the people and in the
  government itself as to submarine warfare.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:306 Ag 19 ‘17 350w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:679 O ‘17 80w

  “The earlier chapters are by far the most interesting. The last two
  chapters—on the United States at war, and President Wilson—descend to
  journalese and add nothing to the book.” Frank Fitt

     + — =Pub W= 92:816 S 15 ‘17 520w

       + =R of Rs= 56:549 N ‘17 100w

  “Whatever may be said of the value of this evidence, the portions of
  Mr Ackerman’s book that deal with Germany, though containing little
  that is new, are of interest to the American public; the chapters on
  America’s entrance into the war, with long quotations from speeches
  and editorials, make the most obvious sort of padding.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 750w

  “For the serious student of affairs the importance of the book lies in
  the large mass of information which it contains as to the struggle
  which was going on all the time in Germany between the two great
  parties, the Pan-Germans and the party of comparative moderation which
  centered round the Foreign office.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p3 Ja 3 ‘18 1400w


=ACTON, JOHN EMERICH EDWARD DALBERG-ACTON, 1st baron.=[2] Selections
from the Correspondence of the first Lord Acton; ed. with an introd. by
J: Neville Figgis and Reginald Vere Laurence. 2v v 1 *$5 Longmans
17-31664

  =v 1= The editors have made selections from Lord Acton’s
  correspondence with Cardinal Newman, Lady Blennerhassett, W. E.
  Gladstone and others. This collection constitutes volume 1 and is to
  be followed by a second volume devoted to correspondence with
  Döllinger. The letters have been arranged in three groups: Early
  letters; Ecclesiastical correspondence; General correspondence. Groups
  2 and 3 are then subdivided. The editors say, “Out of a large mass of
  letters we have chosen those which throw most light on Acton’s
  development.”

  “A liberal Catholic, a lover of freedom, enunciator of the maxim that
  ‘liberty depends on the division of power,’ and an opponent of capital
  punishment, Acton was in advance of much of the opinion of his time.
  For this reason, if there were no others, the correspondence is worthy
  of attentive study.”

       + =Ath= p597 N ‘17 180w

  “The importance of these letters is due essentially to the fact that
  they relate to Lord Acton rather than to Lord Acton’s times and
  contemporaries.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 D 8 ‘17 700w

  “Though he knew too many men as well as books to be dull, the lovers
  of personalities and gossipy biography are warned off. On the other
  hand, those who wish to understand something of the beginnings of
  continental liberalism in church and state will find so much
  instruction in Lord Acton’s letters that they will be well repaid for
  the attentive reading which they demand.”

       + =Sat R= 124:333 O 27 ‘17 1250w

  “This new volume of Acton’s own correspondence is welcome in so far as
  it throws light on his elusive personality, but it must be added that
  the letters are not often as interesting as we had hoped. For our
  part, we should have preferred a strictly chronological order for the
  Acton-Gladstone correspondence, which would then have illustrated
  clearly the long and intimate friendship existing between these two
  eminent men. As it is, we are carried backward and forward, from one
  topic to another. His editors have diligently annotated the text, and
  their biographical references are valuable. But the book is, like
  Acton’s other writings, not at all easy to read.”

     + — =Spec= 119:417 O 20 ‘17 2150w

  “Apart from the notes and the index it cannot be said that the editors
  have done their work particularly well. Their worst sin is their
  method of arrangement. ... This sounds like order, but in fact
  produces chaos.”

   + – – =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p488 O 11 ‘17 1900w


=ADAMS, ARTHUR BARTO.= Marketing perishable farm products. (Columbia
univ. studies in history, economics and public law) pa *$1.50 Longmans
338 16-14602

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “In thus stating the problem it seems that the author must realize
  that he is dealing with a question of the distribution of wealth; that
  is, with the method of its apportionment among those who produce and
  handle farm products. But he considers marketing as entirely a part of
  production. In his review of the present system of marketing and in
  his analysis of its cost he dwells only upon activities which are
  mechanically necessary to put goods in the hands of the consumer. ...
  Mr Adams goes farther in recommending government aid than many
  authorities—Mr Weld, for instance, in his work on ‘The marketing of
  farm products’; but not so far as Mr Elwood Mead, who has the
  Australian and European situation in mind.” W: R. Camp

         =Am Econ R= 7:125 Mr ‘17 1350w

  “The author has produced a valuable work. It is analytical, not
  dogmatic, keeps in view the facts, and is constructive. It overturns
  preconceived opinions and demolishes the positions of some writers and
  many agitators. The reader of the work has the sense of dealing with
  something substantial and trustworthy and feels that he has secured a
  much better foundation for judging the case of the much maligned
  marketing or middleman system.” J: M. Gillette

       + =Am J Soc= 22:559 Ja ‘17 650w

  “The book is valuable in pointing out definite defects and discussing
  corrective measures. It does not contribute much that is new to the
  solution of the problem.” N. D. H.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 70:325 Mr ‘17 180w

  Reviewed by C. L. King

         =Survey= 37:585 F 17 ‘17 280w


=ADAMS, FRANKLIN PIERCE.= Weights and measures. *$1 Doubleday 817
17-29489

  A new book of verses, selected from the author’s contributions to
  newspapers and magazines. Mr Adams parodies Amy Lowell, Sara Teasdale,
  Edgar Lee Masters, and Horace, and writes on The indignant captain of
  industry, The patriotic merchant prince, and other modern themes.
  “Don’t tell me what you dreamt last night” is inspired by Freud, and
  “Strange cases” relates a series of tales with surprising
  conclusions—surprising because not unusual.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:119 Ja ‘18

       + =Cleveland= p134 D ‘17 100w

  “Besides his funniness, which depends as much on his assumptions of
  intimacy as on a gentle irony, Mr Adams is felicitous in his use of
  exacting metres and involved rhyme-schemes. Most choice is his use of
  slang in paraphrasing Latin.”

       + =Dial= 63:528 N 22 ‘17 420w

  “As any one might know by mention of ‘F. P. A.’ as the author, this is
  a delightful book. It is so full of a number of things!”

       + =N Y Times= 22:485 N 18 ‘17 320w


=ADAMS, JOHN DUNCAN.= Carpentry for beginners. il *$1.50 Moffat 684
17-24720

  “John D. Adams has gathered together his articles on carpentry which
  have previously been printed in magazines, and they now appear in book
  form under the title ‘Carpentry for beginners.’ Beginning with the
  simplest of articles which the average small boy can make, the author
  proceeds to describe others, more difficult, some of which would be a
  credit to a cabinet maker. ... For those who do not care to undertake
  the laborious task of getting out their own stock, each article has
  its mill bill. This enables the builder to have all material cut and
  planed, leaving only the putting together and finishing to be
  done.”—Springf’d Republican

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:79 D ‘17

  “The photographs, drawings and descriptions are so clear that with
  patience one should turn out very creditable pieces of furniture
  granting that one has the necessary knack.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 130w


=ADAMS, JOSEPH QUINCY.= Shakespearean playhouses. il *$3.50 (4½c)
Houghton 792 17-24678

  A history of seventeen regular and five temporary English theaters
  which takes advantage of the findings of later scholars. The writer,
  who is assistant professor of English in Cornell university, has
  examined original sources first hand and offers his own interpretation
  of historical evidences. The audience sought includes college and
  university students of Shakespeare or of the Elizabethan drama; all
  persons interested in English literature; and those interested in the
  history of the theater. The illustrations and maps are note-worthy for
  their value as a pictorial history of English theaters from their
  beginning to the restoration. The bibliography, tho “not intended to
  be exhaustive, is fairly complete.”

  “A good reference book.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:82 D ‘17

  “Its material is drawn from a first-hand examination of original
  sources and from an independent examination of the historical
  evidences. It is to be regretted, however, that in reproducing old
  documents he has chosen to modernize their spelling and punctuation,
  and that he has thought it necessary to change dates from the old
  style chronology to the new.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p10 N 28 ‘17 630w

  “Since the present cannot be understood without a thorough knowledge
  of the past, Mr Adams’s scholarly account of ‘Shakespearean
  playhouses’ is an important factor in any study of contemporary
  development. Mr Adams’s book will be welcomed by all students of the
  theatre, whether of its contemporary or historical phases.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:578 D 30 ‘17 170w


=ADAMS, SAMUEL HOPKINS.= Our square and the people in it. il *$1.50 (2c)
Houghton 17-29518

  “Walled in by slums stands our square, a valiant green space, far on
  the flank of the great city,” writes the author in a foreword. He has
  told a series of stories of the people of the square, the little
  sculptor, the doctor, the Scotch tailor and others. The stories deal
  with matters of every day life but are told from the point of view of
  a romanticist. Contents: Our square; The chair that whispered;
  MacLachan of our square; The great peacemaker; Orpheus, who made music
  in our square; “Tazmun”; The meanest man in our square; Paula of the
  housetop; The little red doctor of our square. Some of these are
  reprinted from magazines.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:129 Ja ‘18

  “It would not be altogether candid to say that their truth to life
  impresses one as he reads these pleasant chapters. That there is no
  evil under the sun which true love may not remedy might well be the
  motto of each essay.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 D 26 ‘17 240w

  “The author’s style, stimulating and capricious as it always is, sets
  heart-strings to vibrating and brings tears close to the surface.”

       + =Lit D= 55:51 D 29 ‘17 180w

  “They are pleasant stories, ... and if they make one feel that they
  belong to some enchanted dreamland rather than in and around a New
  York east side park, they are, nevertheless, agreeable and
  entertaining.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:458 N 11 ‘17 900w

  “The stories are luminous with a delicate humor and wholly free from
  the vulgarity which sometimes characterizes stories in or about the
  slums.”

       + =Outlook= 117:510 N 28 ‘17 170w


=ADLER, ALFRED.= Neurotic constitution; outlines of a comparative
individualistic psychology and psychotherapy; auth. English tr. by
Bernard Glueck and J: E: Lind. *$3 Moffat 130 17-4718

  “Dr Adler, starting as a pupil of Freud, has now been disowned by the
  master because of the diminished emphasis laid by Adler on the sexual
  element. The neuroses grow, according to Adler, from a sense of
  inferiority, due itself to some actual or imagined bodily infirmity.
  The neurotic individual, even as a child, feels himself inferior and
  his position and outlook insecure; this feeling, not acquiesced in,
  leads to a self-assertion (the ‘masculine protest’) that seeks
  fictitious and strained means of expression, while at the same time
  shrinking from the real tests of life.”—Survey

  “The book is not pleasant reading, and one has, all through, the
  impression that Adler is trying very hard to defend himself in a
  position, which really does not need such valiant efforts, to gain the
  fulfillment of his own craving for security.” Wilfrid Lay

         =Bookm= 45:199 Ap ‘17 1250w

  “Furnishes many suggestions of therapeutic value. ... Any person,
  whether neurotic or not, would be much interested in and benefited by
  a reading of Dr Adler’s work.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:272 Jl 22 ‘17 250w

  “‘The neurotic constitution’ prompts the observation that if all the
  studies of Freud and his method are to be translated for the American
  public they should at least be put into intelligible English.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 20 ‘17 110w

  Reviewed by R. S. Woodworth

         =Survey= 38:361 Jl 21 ‘17 130w


=AIKEN, CONRAD POTTER.= Jig of Forslin. *$1.25 Four seas co. 811
A17-1323

  “‘The jig of Forslin’ is a much more ambitious effort than ‘Turns and
  movies.’ ... Its theme, as explained in the preface, is ‘the process
  of vicarious wish fulfillment by which civilized man enriches his
  circumscribed life and obtains emotional balance. It is an exploration
  of his emotional and mental hinterland, his fairyland of impossible
  illusions and dreams.’ Forslin, alone in his hall bedroom, dreams
  himself by turns a murderer, a juggler, the lover now of a woman of
  the street, now of a great queen, now of a lamia. He ranges through
  all periods, all climes. The sound of music binds his dreams
  together.”—N Y Times

  “The poem as a whole is unlike anything else. The sensibilities will
  be offended, the coarseness of the picturesque novel is introduced,
  and yet there are sections of mystical beauty and lyrical intensity.
  It will arouse discussion, and rightfully so, because, whatever one
  may say of form and method, there is little or no artifice in the
  substance. As a poet Mr Aiken gains immeasurably with this poem.” W.
  S. B.

         =Boston Transcript= p9 D 20 ‘16 1300w

  “The author has not quite completed the dramatization of his
  narratives. They are poignant as stories of other men and women, as
  dramatic monologs, if you will, but in spite of painstaking efforts on
  Mr Aiken’s part their vicarious significance in Forslin’s life does
  not really emerge from the fluid mixture.”

     + — =Ind= 89:366 F 26 ‘17 150w

  “The author has not tempered the rashness of his colors, but, by
  substituting vision for reality, he has in a manner lowered the gas,
  and, in the restful though morbid twilight, effects are more poetical
  and less repulsive. Mr Aiken employs many verse-forms, including free
  verse. He is a born metrist.” O. W. Firkins

       + =Nation= 105:245 S 6 ‘17 290w

  “The evident purpose is to render man’s vicarious satisfaction of the
  tabooed impulses. The thing will be done some day, but it will take a
  greater knowledge of life and man and Freud than this poet seems to
  possess.” Clement Wood

       — =NY Call= p15 Ja 5 ‘18 130w

  “‘The jig of Forslin,’ no less than ‘Turns and movies,’ is a poem of
  youth, but of youth imaginative, not sensuous.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:55 F 18 ‘17 350w

  “To the persons who like the newer schools of verse and enjoy the
  study of the processes of the mind, and to all poets, one heartily
  commends ‘The jig of Forslin,’ a most extraordinary novel in verse.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:211 F ‘17 120w

  “With a refreshing sense of relief, the reader in search of something
  new comes upon the work of a new poet who deserves the term in a
  descriptive sense as well. Such a writer is Conrad Aiken, one of the
  youngest of contemporary poets, a graduate of Harvard in the class of
  1911, and already the author of two volumes of verse.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 1100w


=AIKENS, CHARLOTTE ALBINA.= Home nurse’s handbook of practical nursing.
2d ed, thoroughly rev il *$1.50 (1½c) Saunders 610.7 17-7826

  The first edition was published in 1912. Changes in the new edition
  consist of minor revisions and additions. “Of the additions, the most
  important are the notes on the care of premature babies, infantile
  paralysis, tuberculosis patients, aged patients, and patients
  afflicted with chronic diseases of the heart and kidneys, and on the
  prevention of mental diseases—all of which have their beginnings, and
  in most cases their endings, in the home.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:361 My ‘17


=AINGER, ARTHUR CAMPBELL.= Memories of Eton sixty years ago; with
contributions from Neville Gerald Lyttelton and J: Murray. il *9s
Murray, London 373 (Eng ed 17-13276)

  “The author finds a reason for the presentment of another book on Eton
  in the fact that many of the events of the years from 1850 to 1860
  show the passing of the old order and the birth of the new. Not only
  to old Etonians, but also to the general reader, this volume of
  memories clinging around the ancient school, its inner life, the
  discipline, manners, and customs of far-off days, and the picturesque
  buildings, some of which are no more, will be of great interest.”—Ath

  “The illustrations are very attractive.”

       + =Ath= p104 F ‘17 90w

  “To the old English public schoolboy, these reminiscences of sixty
  years ago will call up many vivid recollections; to the old American
  schoolboy they will prove no less delightful by their contrasts
  between the educational systems and methods of the two countries.” E.
  F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 12 ‘18 1250w

  “He has fulfilled his task, obviously a labour of love, in a manner
  that calls for unstinted praise at the hands not only of those who owe
  to Eton the educational and moral training which has fitted them for
  the battle of life, but of all Englishmen who are justly proud of
  this, one of her greatest institutions.”

       + =Library World= 19:271 Ap ‘17 430w

  “Mr Ainger writes always with the urbanity which is the special charm
  of the Etonian. Never unkind, as is the way of some stylists more
  careful of effect than of the truth, he speaks out when criticism is
  needed.”

       + =Sat R= 123:sup5 Mr 31 ‘17 950w

  “It is even scrappy; but does that matter if every scrap is a
  pleasure? Inserted between the chapters are seventeen of his school
  songs and other verses, and Johnson’s ‘Boating song,’ which, with Mr
  Ainger’s ‘Carmen’ and ‘Vale,’ is known all the world over.”

       + =Spec= 118:440 Ap 14 ‘17 720w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p89 F 22 ‘17 800w


=AKSAKOV, SERGIEI, TIMOFIEEVICH.= Russian gentleman; tr. from the
Russian by J. D. Duff. *$2.25 (2½c) Longmans (Eng ed 17-22678)

  Sergiei Aksakov was a Russian writer who lived from 1790 to 1859. He
  is the author of two autobiographical works, one of which “Years of
  childhood” was published in English last year. The other,
  “Recollections,” is promised for future publication. The present work
  is pre-autobiographical. It deals with matters before the author’s
  time and ends with the year of his birth. “Family history” is its more
  exact title. The translator’s preface says, “‘A Russian gentleman’
  seems a suitable title for this book, because the whole scene, in
  which a multitude of characters appear, is entirely dominated and
  permeated by the tremendous personality of Aksakov’s grandfather,
  Stepan Mihailovitch. Plain and rough in his appearance and habits, but
  proud of his long descent; hardly able to read or write, but full of
  natural intelligence; capable of furious anger ... but equally capable
  of steadfast and even chivalrous affection; a born leader of men and
  the very incarnation of truth, honour, and honesty—Stepan Mihailovitch
  is more like a Homeric hero than a man of modern times.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:57 N ‘17

       + =Ath= p256 My ‘17 50w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 30 ‘17 420w

  “The hot-tempered but strictly honorable country squire of eighty
  years ago is splendidly portrayed. The picture of the times in which
  he lived, however, is the picture of a nightmare.”

     + — =Ind= 92:56 O 6 ‘17 130w

  “It is accepted in Russia as a faithful picture of the conditions
  which prevailed in the district of Orenburg under Catherine the
  Great.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:649 O ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p47 O ‘17 30w

  “Mr Duff, who has already given us an excellent rendering of Aksakov’s
  ‘Years of childhood,’ has added to our indebtedness by this
  translation of what is generally admitted to be his masterpiece,
  ‘Family life,’ under the title of ‘A Russian gentleman.’”

       + =Spec= 118:565 My 19 ‘17 1750w

  “Half-imaginary memoirs is the best description we could give of this
  book. As for its merit, it is simply this, that every page of it is
  interesting with a quiet but intense interest.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p187 Ap 19 ‘17 1350w


=AKSAKOV, SERGIEI TIMOFIEEVICH.=[2] Russian schoolboy; tr. from the
Russian by J. D. Duff. *$2.25 (2½c) Longmans 18-1741

  “A Russian gentleman,” “Years of childhood,” and “A Russian schoolboy”
  are the three volumes of Aksakov’s recollections, named in
  chronological order. The second however, which appeared in English
  translation in 1916, was written later than the other two, having been
  published within a short time of the author’s death. The book, which
  begins with a touching account of a little boy’s homesick longings for
  his mother, covers the years from 1799 to 1807, and consists of four
  long chapters: My first term at school; A year in the country; My
  return to school; Life at college. An appendix contains a sketch,
  “Butterfly-collecting, an episode of college life,” which was the
  author’s last piece of writing.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 450w

  “This completes Mr Duff’s translation of the memoirs of one of the
  most striking and individual among Russian writers.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p530 N 1 ‘17 40w

  “When we consider the rare merit of these books we can scarcely thank
  the translator sufficiently. Ignorant as we are of the works of
  Aksakov, it would be rash to say that this autobiography is the most
  characteristic of them; and yet one feels certain that there was
  something especially congenial to him in the recollection of
  childhood. He is not, we think, quite so happy in the present volume
  because he passes a little beyond the scope of childhood. ...
  Aksakov’s peculiar gift lay in his power of living back into the
  childish soul.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p539 N 8 ‘17 1950w


=ALDEN, RAYMOND MACDONALD.= Alfred Tennyson: how to know him. il *$1.50
Bobbs 821 17-25767

  The author is professor of English in Leland Stanford Jr. university.
  “Professor Alden adopts the method of copious quotation intermingled
  with commentary and exposition. He gives us the meagrest details of
  Tennyson’s life and then only as his doings and his writings are
  interwoven.” (Boston Transcript) He takes up “all the important
  briefer poems of Tennyson” with the text; gives “some account of the
  general character and structure of the great works which are too
  extensive to be represented by giving their full text”; but does not
  include the dramas. One chapter is given to “the relations of our age
  to the Victorians, as illustrated by the poetry of Tennyson.”

  “A sound interpretation.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:84 D ‘17

  “Like its predecessors in the same series, Professor Alden’s
  ‘Tennyson: how to know him,’ is better than its title. And like its
  predecessors, it is all the better because it does not fulfill the
  implications of its title. ... Professor Alden interprets the poet and
  his work with a sound judgment. ... But his style is, we regret to
  say, frequently far from impeccable.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 29 ‘17 1400w

       + =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 100w

       + =Ind= 92:64 O 6 ‘17 100w

  “As an American interpreter of Tennyson, Professor Alden labors under
  the disadvantage of remoteness from the poet’s environment and also
  from his modes of thought. This remoteness from Tennyson’s world leads
  his interpreter into misconception. He misses the point of ‘The
  northern farmer.’ ... On the whole, Professor Alden is on the side of
  the angels, and defends this Victorian archangel against the attacks
  of the little cliques, the faddists and the Philistines. He might,
  however, make fewer concessions to the enemy.”

     + — =Nation= 105:603 N 29 ‘17 1000w

  “A teacher who renounces much of Tennyson, and whose admiration of
  what is left is strong and contagious—such is Mr Alden.” P. L.

     + — =New Repub= 13:24 N 3 ‘17 1250w


=ALDIS, HARRY GIDNEY.= Printed book. (Cambridge manuals of science and
literature) il *45c (1c) Putnam 655 17-8491

  “The scope of the present volume is limited to a brief outline of the
  origin and development of the printed book of the western world,
  printed for the most part on paper, occasionally on vellum, and more
  rarely on other material. In point of time the subject falls within
  the last five hundred years.” (Introd.) Contents: The advent of
  printing; The spread of the art; The fifteenth-century book; The
  scholar-printers of the sixteenth century; English books, 1500-1800;
  The modern book; The construction of a book; Illustrations;
  Bookbinding and bookbindings; The handling and mishandling of books.
  The volume has several interesting illustrations, a bibliography and
  an index.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:44 N ‘17

  “There is an excellent chapter on modern presses.”

       + =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 20w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17

  “Interesting little book.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:667 O ‘17 20w

         =Pratt= p22 Jl ‘17 10w


=ALDON, ADAIR.= Island of Appledore. il *$1.25 (3c) Macmillan 17-28795

  Appledore island lies off the New England coast, and it is here that
  Billy Wentworth, who had never seen salt water before, comes to spend
  a summer with an aunt. He had not wanted to come at all and he has
  made up his mind not to like the Atlantic ocean. But that mood cannot
  last, and he is shortly asking old Captain Saulsby to teach him all
  about boats. Billy has use for his new knowledge, and some very real
  adventures lie before him, for this is the time of the European war
  and German spies are at work along the Atlantic coast. In the end
  Billy enlists in the navy.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:100 D ‘17

       + =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 20w

  “A capital story for boys.”

       + =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 10w

  “Any one who knows Appledore as one of the Isles of Shoals will
  recognize in a moment that Adair Aldon has taken liberties with the
  scenery. The author admits it, claiming a novelist’s license, and then
  proceeds to write a stirring tale.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 190w


=ALDRICH, DARRAGH.= Enchanted hearts. il *$1.35 (1½c) Doubleday 17-25127

  A story which is as wholesome for grown-ups as it is enchanting to
  younger readers. Little Comfort, the heroine, sleeping or waking,
  inhabits her castle of dreams where she is Fairy-godmother. “That,”
  she says, “is what I truly am; but of course my business is peeling
  potatoes and things and washing dishes. I wait on tables, too,
  mostly—when I am not making beds.” In the boarding house where she
  wields alternately her fairy wand and the paring knife is her Princess
  who writes stories. Fairy-godmother observes that when the fat
  envelope comes back, gloom prevails. Her work is to hunt up a Prince
  who can save the Princess. Success seems to come readily after a visit
  to the rooms of a rich, bored young man whom the wand transforms. But
  the uncertain days that follow, days during which Fairy-godmother
  tests and even doubts the magic of her wand, ripen her childish
  wisdom. She never gives up, and the end makes her dreams all come
  true.

  “A good story of its kind.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:94 D ‘17

  “The Pollyannas and Little Sir Galahads have made so vivid an
  impression on our present day fiction that we probably shall not lose
  their influence for some time to come. We can forgive that influence,
  however, when it gives us a character as lovable as Fairy godmother in
  ‘Enchanted hearts.’”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 24 ‘17 300w

  “There is a spirit of reality, spontaneous joy, and spiritual faith in
  the book which excites and maintains interest. It even disarms
  criticism when sane reason disapproves of excessive flights of fancy.”

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 29 ‘17 250w


=ALDRICH, MILDRED.= On the edge of the war zone. il *$1.25 Small 940.91
17-24668

  Miss Aldrich’s letters published under the title of “A hilltop on the
  Marne” covered the period between June 3 and September 8, 1914. The
  first letter in the present volume, also written from the little house
  near Huiry on the Marne, is dated September 16, 1914, and the last
  April 8, 1917. The book pictures for us both the spirit of the French
  nation and the happenings in one little corner of France, “from the
  battle of the Marne to the entrance of the Stars and Stripes.”
  (Sub-title)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:51 N ‘17

  “Miss Aldrich has seen little more than the smoke of distant conflict,
  but she has lived in the very heart of France during all its struggle.
  These quiet letters, quite devoid of thrilling incident, are the
  essence of the home life of these memorable three years and to the
  reader who knows nothing of the technical art of war they are far more
  interesting than detailed accounts of battles.” F. A. G.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 8 ‘17 1650w

  “The reader will appreciate and share the writer’s evident affection
  for the French peasant and find especially interesting her account of
  supplying books to the poilus and of work with the American base
  hospital in the neighborhood.”

       + =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 70w

  “Has nothing quite so thrilling to relate as the earlier book, but it
  lacks neither interesting incidents nor charm of style.”

       + =Ind= 92:61 O 6 ‘17 30w

  “Every one knows that Miss Aldrich can write and that she has a very
  human, observant eye, and a unique understanding of the French mind
  under the stress of the war. Her new book is packed with incidents and
  observations of the pathos and beauty of the French spirit.”

       + =Lit D= 55:38 D 8 ‘17 150w

  “A quiet record of one woman’s experiences and reactions more
  illuminating than many volumes of vague generalizations.” E. P.
  Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 92:1387 O 20 ‘17 350w

  “Full of vital, soul-stirring experience.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:442 O ‘17 70w


=ALEXANDER, PHILIP FREDERICK.=[2] Earliest voyages round the world,
1519-1617. (Cambridge travel books) il *75c Putnam 910.4

  “In the century, 1519-1617, covered by this travel-book there were six
  voyages round the world—one Spanish, led by a Portuguese, Magellan;
  two English, led by Drake and Cavendish; and three Dutch, led by Van
  Noort, Speilbergen, and Le Maire and Schouten. Mr Alexander includes
  in this volume Pigafetta’s account of the Magellan expedition; Francis
  Pretty’s narratives of Drake’s piratical voyage, and of Cavendish’s
  first voyage; and an account of Le Maire and Schouten’s discovery of
  the route round Cape Horn. There are numerous illustrations, including
  a sixteenth-century map of Drake’s voyage corrected by the great
  navigator; a dozen pages of useful notes; a brief introduction to the
  narratives; and a table of important dates in the history of
  discovery.”—Nature

  “As a contemporary source book, which maintains the atmosphere of the
  great days of the early voyages, this compilation will prove extremely
  useful and stimulating.”

       + =Nature= 98:388 Ja 18 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:134 S ‘17 30w

  “As an introduction to Hakluyt and the publications of the Hakluyt
  society, nothing could be better. As a school text-book, nothing could
  be more attractive.”

       + =Spec= 118:110 Ja 27 ‘17 110w


=ALEXINSKY, GREGOR.= Russia and Europe; tr. from the manuscript by
Bernard Miall. *$3 Scribner 947 17-5551

  “A previous work of the author’s on modern Russia was devoted to the
  distinguishing facts of Russian life as contrasted with the life of
  western Europe. And now he discloses how Russia has ‘Europeanized
  herself’ and sums up the effects of European influences on the great
  Slav empire, past and present. ... We read that it is through the
  foreigner’s money and his novel forms of exploitation that the old
  state of things in Russia has been subject to a profound upheaval.
  Coming to the present war, the author says that all the democrats in
  Russia recognize in it the cause of liberty, external and internal.
  They see in the fraternity of Russia and the western nations a force
  tending to democratize and Europeanize their country. And they believe
  their country will achieve its own liberty when it reaches the end of
  the road leading to victory over the external oppressor.”—Boston
  Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 13:344 My ‘17

  “This writer, who has been a member of the Duma, knows his Russian
  intimately. ... Interesting chapters are devoted to ‘The
  Europeanization of the state’ and ‘Ideals.’ The influence of western
  ideas upon philosophy and social movements is set forth in an
  attractive way. ... Mr Alexinsky’s book should help to calm the fears
  of those who have been led to believe that great Russia will, sooner
  or later, decide to throw in her lot with Germany and Austria.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 10 ‘17 400w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:77 My ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:84 Mr 11 ‘17 750w

       + =Outlook= 116:74 My 9 ‘17 80w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:677 O ‘17 20w

         =Spec= 118:342 Mr 17 ‘17 140w

  “Mr Bernard Miall has done well in the essential matter of making the
  book read almost as though it were written in English; but he is open
  to reproach for certain defects apparently due to carelessness. The
  book badly needs an index, and no indication is given of what system
  of transliteration has been followed. He is curiously reckless with
  the centuries.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p50 F 1 ‘17 850w


=ALEXINSKY, TATIANA.= With the Russian wounded; tr. by Gilbert Cannan;
with an introd. by Gregor Alexinsky. *2s 6d Unwin, T. Fisher, London
940.91

  “The author is the wife of Gregor Alexinsky, who played so
  revolutionary a rôle in the second Duma that he was exiled to Paris.
  On the outbreak of the war, Mrs Alexinsky, who shares her husband’s
  internationalist hopes, went to Russia primarily to discover if it
  really was a people’s war. Several months as a nurse in a hospital
  train finally destroyed her early scepticism. ‘All wars are not the
  same,’ her patients would say to her, ‘but ours is a just war.’ Other
  ideas, however, received confirmation. There was a touching, dull
  wonder at the stupidity of a world which made wars necessary—even the
  most ignorant peasants expressed that. ... If there was likewise a
  determination to fight this war ‘to a finish,’ it was only because the
  men believed it was the one sure way to end future conflicts.”—New
  Repub

       + =New Repub= 9:307 Ja 13 ‘17 400w

       + =N Y Times= 22:140 Ap 15 ‘17 400w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p539 N 9 ‘16 70w


=ALFORD, LEON PRATT=, ed. Manufacture of artillery ammunition. il *$6
McGraw 623.45 17-5988

  Papers reprinted from the American Machinist. “The material splits up
  into sections on shrapnel, high-explosive shells, cartridge cases and
  fuses. In each field the manufacturing methods are disclosed for a
  variety of sizes; production data are given for each kind and size of
  ammunition shown.”—Engin News-Rec

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:431 Jl ‘17

  “The appendix includes some timely suggestions, based on twenty-six
  months’ experience of the allied nations, for the standardization and
  procurement of machine tools by the United States government.”

       + =Bul N Y Public Library= 21:482 Jl ‘17 100w

  “An up-to-date text on munitions manufacture has been earnestly
  desired by the Council of national defense and by every manufacturer
  who may have to turn his plant into an arsenal. The most obvious way
  to secure such a book was to reprint the papers that have appeared in
  the American Machinist since the onset of the European war. The
  contact with munitions manufacture is coming at so many points that
  this work will be needed by great numbers of industrial engineers who
  will not themselves bear the direct responsibility of manufacture.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:360 My 17 ‘17 130w

  “Admirable work—complete, practical, and carefully illustrated.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p11 Ap ‘17 100w

  “A very interesting and valuable book.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:443 My ‘17 6w (Reprinted from Iron Trade Review
         p732 Mr 29 ‘17)

         =Pittsburgh= 22:521 Je ‘17

  “Contains 699 illustrations.”

       + =Pratt= p18 Jl ‘17 30w


=ALINGTON, CYRIL ARGENTINE.= Shrewsbury fables. *75c Longmans 170

  “‘Shrewsbury fables’ are addresses given in the chapel of Shrewsbury
  school by the former headmaster, Cyril Alington, who last year
  succeeded Dr Lyttelton as headmaster of Eton. ... Dr Alington’s early
  addresses are on simple and practical questions of religion and
  ethics, and since the war have mainly to do with service of the
  country in the army. The last address, however, is a pleasant homily
  on the quest of glory and its transitoriness.”—Springf’d Republican

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:93 Je ‘17 20w

  “We confess to a certain degree of dismay that an eminent head master,
  among whose functions is, presumably, that of educating the taste of
  his pupils, should hold up so bizarre a style of composition for their
  imitation, for boys are essentially imitative. ... Of the moral and
  religious lessons which Dr Alington desires to enforce in the garb of
  fable we would speak with all respect and appreciation. ... Apart from
  this one lapse [concerning Milton] from good taste and wisdom, it is
  the form, and not the matter, of these discourses that we do not
  like.”

     + — =Sat R= 123:390 Ap 28 ‘17 820w

  “There are not a few passages which in their delivery must have
  provoked smiles, for Mr Alington is not afraid of humour, even of a
  freakish kind; but, as a set-off, there is a great deal that is
  profoundly serious and touching. We are reminded at times of Bunyan
  and again of Plato, but the touch and the illustrations are
  essentially modern and admirably suited to the boy audience.”

       + =Spec= 118:236 F 24 ‘17 1900w

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 20 ‘17 220w

  “If anyone strange to the public school system of England and its
  ideals were to need a short cut to the understanding of them, he might
  do worse than begin with Mr Alington’s ‘Fables.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p103 Mr 1 ‘17 620w


=ALLEN, GEORGE HENRY; WHITEHEAD, HENRY C., and CHADWICK, FRENCH ENSOR.=
Great war. 5v v 2-3 il ea $5 Barrie 940.91 (Eng ed 15-19225)

  “A comprehensive popular history ... to be sold by subscription.”
  (Springfield Republican) “Volume 1 treats of: Causes of and motives
  for the war; Volume 2, The mobilization of the moral and physical
  forces; Volume 3, The original German plan and its culmination. There
  is a ‘Chronological table’ at the end of each volume.” (Pittsburgh)
  Volume 1 was run in the Digest in 1915.

  “The preceding volume dealt with the causes of the war. This one
  concerns the manner in which the conflict was begun, the last
  conversations of diplomats and statesmen, etc. ... There is something
  finely dramatic in his account of the memorable sessions of the
  Reichstag and the House of commons. ... The second part of the volume
  most readers will find of less interest. There is lengthy statement of
  the military organization of the warring powers and also of their
  naval strength. ... It cannot be said that the author displays
  improper prejudice for the Teutonic allies, but prolonged acquaintance
  with the German people has brought him thoroughly under the glamour of
  their achievements and their greatness. The German army is the
  exemplar and the pattern. ... There is lack of clear, trenchant, lucid
  generalization, and especially of interpretation, while the
  statistical comparisons might be better made in tables than by the
  narrative form in which they are expounded. In the third part there is
  a chapter on the mobilization of financial resources, interesting and
  especially good as regards Great Britain and Germany.” E: R. Turner

     + — =Am Hist R= 22:864 Jl ‘17 1400w (Review of v 2)

         =Am Pol Sci R= 11:594 Ag ‘17 50w (Review of v 2)

  “The book is written in a terse and lucid style, and its logical plan,
  combined with its clear and judicial manner of treatment, makes it a
  work of much popular appeal, although the painstaking care of the
  authors to make it comprehensive and accurate in its use of facts
  gives it scholarly authoritativeness.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:282 Jl 29 ‘17 220w (Review of v 2)

         =Pittsburgh= 22:49 Ja ‘17 30w (Review of v 1-3)

  “The publishers have done their part well by providing a volume which,
  if somewhat too large for comfortable reading, is handsomely printed
  and generously illustrated. ... ‘The great war,’ so far as issued,
  provides a full, clear, authentic view of the beginning of the
  conflict, and, while the work is intended for the general reader,
  historical students will find it useful for reference.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Ap 27 ‘17 220w (Review of v 2)


=ALLEN, H. WARNER.= Unbroken line. il *$2 Dutton 940.91 (Eng ed 17-1330)

  “An illustrated survey of the French trenches from Switzerland to the
  North sea, by one of the British newspaper correspondents with the
  French armies in the field during the years 1915-16.” (R of Rs) “Under
  Mr Allen’s guidance, we are able to take a personally conducted tour
  along the line and remark the idiosyncrasies of its several sections.
  Except in the case of the defence of Nancy and the Somme offensive, he
  attempts no consecutive narrative of the fighting, but contents
  himself with illustrating military geography with graphic anecdotes of
  heroism and ingenuity. ... The book is brought up to date by a chapter
  describing the first ten weeks or so of the battle of the Somme—or
  rather of that part of the battle assigned to the French troops.” (The
  Times [London] Lit Sup)

  “Mr Allen had opportunities for observation accorded to perhaps no
  other press correspondent save Frederick Palmer. And the story he
  tells of his journey from Switzerland to the Channel along the ‘Wall
  of civilization’ is one of high inspiration and encouragement.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 28 ‘17 700w

  “Among the illustrations are many official photographs reproduced by
  permission of the French government.”

         =R of Rs= 55:551 My ‘17 40w

  “The reader derives a clear impression of the daily life and the
  temper of the French soldiers.”

       + =Spec= 118:105 Ja 27 ‘17 350w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p530 N 9 ‘16 650w


=ALLEN, WILLIAM HARVEY.= Self-surveys by colleges and universities; with
a referendum to college and university presidents. (Educational survey
ser.) il $3 World bk. co. 378 17-29342

  “To make it easier for American democracy to understand, and to shape
  for democracy’s ends, the higher education upon which it spends a
  half-billion dollars yearly, is one purpose of this book,” says the
  foreword. The work consists of “first-aid tests that will help a
  trustee, president, professor, parent, or student act as business
  doctor or efficiency engineer to his own college.” The author is an
  ardent advocate of the self-survey in preference to the survey by
  outside experts. He says, “The study of higher education which is most
  needed today is study by colleges themselves of themselves, and by
  each college of itself.” Contents: The survey movement in higher
  education; Procedure for a coöperative college survey; Relation of
  trustees to president and faculty; Executive and business efficiency;
  Faculty government; Extracurricular activities of students; Course of
  study; Instructional efficiency; Relation with college communities.
  Various “exhibits,” including the faculty questionnaire of the
  University of Wisconsin, are given in the appendix.

       + =El School J= 18:393 Ja ‘18 600w

       + =School R= 26:64 Ja ‘18 420w


=ALLEN, WILLIAM HARVEY, and PEARSE, CARROLL GARDNER.= Self-surveys by
teacher-training schools. (Educational survey ser.) il $2.25 World bk.
co. 370.73 17-29341

  In this work the authors advocate the plan of educational survey that
  was employed in a study of the eight normal schools of Wisconsin. This
  survey was carried out by the State board of public affairs, and in
  his introduction President Carroll G. Pearse, of the Milwaukee normal
  school, points out some of its advantages: “The study was neither
  framed nor carried on by any foundation or other private agency, nor
  was it conducted by a distant bureau, whose knowledge of the study and
  findings and whose influence on the methods of work and conclusions
  drawn could not be only nominal. The survey was coöperative. ... The
  survey was not hurried. ... The study was made by men who were
  familiar with the problems to be studied. ... The study was not only
  coöperative but also immediately and continuingly constructive.”
  Contents: Reasons for self-surveys; Pathfinding by Wisconsin’s normal
  schools; Steps in making a self-survey; Making self-surveys build as
  they go; Administration problems; Course-of-study problems;
  Supervision problems; Classroom instruction; Training department’s
  training; Extra-curricular activities of students; Technique of
  reporting surveys; General needs of teacher-training schools;
  Exhibits.

       + =El School J= 18:393 Ja ‘18 600w

  “It cannot be doubted that this book in the hands of normal schools
  and college administrators will provide a powerful impetus for
  improvement of present methods of administering higher official work
  in this country.”

       + =School R= 26:64 Ja ‘18 830w


=ALLEN, WILLIAM HARVEY.=[2] Universal training for citizenship and
public service. il *$1.50 (3c) Macmillan 323 17-27906

  Dr Allen who is director of the Institute for public service in New
  York believes that one of the great problems for all countries after
  the war will be how, while removing war’s wreckage, to guarantee the
  permanence of its benefits and to direct its momentum towards
  rebuilding what war has torn down. The purpose of his book is to
  formulate for lay students of public affairs certain minimum aims and
  steps which are within the reach of the general public. “In addition
  to listing minimum essentials that are necessary in training privates
  for citizenship, it discusses briefly other minimum essentials of
  training which citizens should require for drillmasters, for entering
  and remaining in public and semi-public service, and for the
  professions. Three other chapters indicate the country’s need for
  specialized training for parenthood, for public spirited use of
  special gifts and for creative imagination and devoted attention to
  the country’s upbuilding after the war.” (Publishers’ note)

  “The somewhat arid title of this book scarcely suggests to the reader
  its really inspiring appeal. Replete with the latest ideas as to civic
  work, its discussion of the problems of citizenship that confronts us
  now, and will confront us after the war, is terse, vigorous, and
  helpful to a high degree.”

       + =Outlook= 118:66 Ja 9 ‘18 60w


=ALTSCHUL, CHARLES.= American revolution in our school text-books; with
an introd. by James T. Shotwell. *$1 Doran 973.07 17-25472

  “The object of this informal study is ... to determine whether we are
  justified in thinking that the history text-books in use more than
  twenty years ago may have had a definite prejudicial influence on the
  minds of a considerable part of our population; and if so, to what
  extent the text-books in use at present promise a different result.”
  (Preface) “Applying a rather rigid formula, Mr Altschul praises (by
  implication) the school books that show the political conditions in
  England prior to the Revolution and indicate that the action of the
  British government was not supported by the people at large. He
  condemns (by implication) those that do not dwell on British political
  conditions prior to the Revolution and that do not enumerate and honor
  the eminent Englishmen who espoused the American cause.” (Springf’d
  Republican)

  “Drawing his data from some ninety-three text-books, he establishes
  some significant results. The book is a compilation with a moral which
  Professor Shotwell draws in his excellent introduction.” C. H. Van
  Tyne

       + =Am Hist R= 23:403 Ja ‘18 600w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:87 D ‘17

  “Should be purchased by school superintendents from Portland, Me., to
  Portland, Ore., and used as a guide for the elimination of antiquated
  rubbish and the acquisition of such rare but procurable text-books as
  tell the story of our struggle with England in a presentation that is
  fair to both countries.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 N 10 ‘17 330w

  “We heartily recommend this whole book to the American public for
  perusal and thoughtful consideration. But in pointing out the
  significance of such a study as this, we must by no means lose sight
  of Mr Altschul’s fair-mindedness, his modesty, the complete absence
  from his book of anything that approaches the dogmatic. Nor should any
  mistake be permitted as to the object of his criticism; as we have
  said, he is not criticising American research, but American elementary
  school textbooks and it is not their accuracy with which he finds
  fault. He does not quarrel with the truth of their facts, but with
  their incompleteness—an incompleteness that makes for superficiality
  and prejudice, and that is responsible for an impression that is
  inaccurate, however correct the statement of narrow fact may be.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:399 O 14 ‘17 1850w

         =R of Rs= 57:104 Ja ‘18 90w

         =Spec= 119:772 D 29 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Altschul seems to favor a method of teaching history which should
  be deliberately friendly to the English, as the teaching of the past
  has been, it seems, deliberately unfriendly. But what is wanted is the
  truth—a critical, rather than sentimental view—and it is just a matter
  of common-sense pedagogy to determine at what age a child can adopt a
  critical view.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p8 S 28 ‘17 600w


=ALTSHELER, JOSEPH ALEXANDER.= Rulers of the lakes. (French and Indian
war ser.) il *$1.35 Appleton 17-24207

  “This is a book for boys, full of Indian warfare, treachery, intrigue,
  skirmishes, narrow escapes, and portraying American history from the
  time of Braddock’s defeat at Fort Duquesne to the Colonists’ success
  at Lake George. The principal characters are young Robert Lennox and
  his Indian friend Tayoga, who make the journey through the wilderness,
  in the face of terrible danger, to warn Fort Refuge, and afterward do
  scout duty and hard fighting at Lake George and Lake Champlain.” (Lit
  D) “While it is linked up with the two preceding volumes, ‘The hunters
  of the hills’ and ‘The shadow of the north,’ by means of a common set
  of characters, the story is complete in itself, and may be enjoyed and
  understood independently of its companion tales.” (Springf’d
  Republican)

  “Not important but readable.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:172 F ‘18

  “Gives a picture of Iroquois life and warfare that is historically
  true.”

       + =Ind= 92:449 D 1 ‘17 40w

  “The description of life in the wilderness, of the intrigue and
  cunning necessary in dealing with the French and Indians, of repeated
  encounters where ultimate success depends on quick wit and wily
  cleverness, makes fascinating reading for youth.”

       + =Lit D= 55:38 O 27 ‘17 160w

  “Mr Altsheler draws some very vivid pictures of the struggle between
  the forces contending for the North American dominion; but the
  individual efforts of the daring trio will occasion the reader the
  livelier interest.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 23 ‘17 260w


=ALVORD, CLARENCE WALWORTH.= Mississippi valley in British politics. 2v
*$10 Clark, A. H. 973.2 16-23066

  “In an exhaustive two volume study of ‘The Mississippi valley in
  British politics,’ Clarence Walworth Alvord recounts the various
  attempts made by the British government to settle and develop the vast
  territory between the Appalachian barrier and the Mississippi which
  came into its hands as a result of the Treaty of Paris in 1769. In the
  opinion of the author the failure of the British to solve the problem
  of governing and settling this region was one of the leading causes of
  the American Revolution, and a far more important one than the riots
  and patriotic demonstrations in Boston and other cities on the
  Atlantic coast which bulk so large in our histories.”—Ind

  “Able as is the political narrative yet the most interesting,
  illuminating chapters are those which discuss the rival capitalistic
  enterprises of land speculation and the fur trade (the only two lines
  open in the West to moneyed men), and the political manoeuvring of
  each for the right to exploit the great interior in its own
  interests.” A. C. Ford

       + =Am Econ R= 7:382 Je ‘17 800w

  “Professor Alvord has himself published a study of the proclamation of
  1763. ... And twenty years ago Professor Coffin gave us an excellent
  history of the Quebec act of 1774. But hitherto no one has attempted a
  comprehensive study of the many problems involved in the possession of
  the western territory, or of the British policy of dealing with these
  problems during the whole period from the Peace of Paris to the
  opening of the Revolution. ... The results of Professor Alvord’s labor
  constitute an important contribution to the literature of the American
  Revolution.” Carl Becker

 *     + =Am Hist R= 22:671 Ap ‘17 1600w

  “Professor Alvord’s volumes will prove of interest to at least four
  groups of persons: students of the history and problems of colonial
  administration; ... persons interested in British political
  history; ... persons who seek a corrective on that treatment of
  pre-revolutionary American history which fixes the attention upon the
  performances of the ‘madding crowd’ of New York and Boston, to the
  exclusion of things transmontane. ... Finally, for students of western
  history the work has much illuminating interpretation.” F: A. Ogg

 *     + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:349 My ‘17 650w

  “These volumes contain a detailed, but rather dull and dryasdust
  narrative of the story of British misgovernment of North America in
  the eighteenth century. Ample bibliographies are included, as well as
  a good index.”

       + =Ath= p51 Ja ‘17 30w

  “Professor Alvord makes out an excellent case, and in the two large
  volumes which contain the elaboration of his theory, he has brought to
  light a mass of historical material of surpassing interest and value,
  if not absolutely convincing. ... But apart from this question, these
  two volumes have a value of their own as a study of the development of
  the Mississippi valley which we have not found matched in any other
  similar compass. The historian, the economist, the student of affairs,
  will alike find in them material of incalculable value. The style is
  one to attract the reader, and the copious footnotes and citations
  afford opportunity to pursue the study of the subject still further.”
  G. H. S.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 27 ‘16 1850w

  “A splendid bibliography and a good index complete this scholarly
  inquiry.”

       + =Cath World= 106:119 O ‘17 1900w

  “There are few readers on this side of the Atlantic who will not have
  much to learn from Mr Alvord’s learned and thoughtful volumes. They
  are accompanied by some useful maps.” H. E. Egerton

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:299 Ap ‘17 950w

         =Ind= 89:232 F 5 ‘17 250w

  “All that Professor Alvord has here written of the actual attempts to
  settle the western territory, of land-schemes and land-grants, of the
  activities of promoters, and of the migrations of restless wanderers
  and pioneers is of the greatest interest and value. ... If the fact be
  recognized that in this work we are dealing with only one aspect of a
  great and difficult problem, and are not to look on what it contains
  as a study of causes culminating in the American revolution, then we
  can freely accord to it the praise that it justly deserves.”

       + =Nation= 104:579 My 10 ‘17 1850w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:323 Ap ‘17

  “To most readers these volumes will give a wholly new conception of
  the attitude of Great Britain towards its American possessions during
  the decade preceding the Revolution. From public and private documents
  never before published, Professor Alvord shows that the ministry at
  London was far more deeply concerned than has generally been supposed
  with the fate of its western possessions in America.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:107 Ja ‘17 140w


=AMERICAN HIGHWAY ASSOCIATION.= Good roads year-book, 1917. 6th annual
ed $2 Am. highway assn. 625.7 (12-14988)

  “The ‘Good roads year book’ for 1917 of the American highway
  association carefully summarizes, as usual, the progress of the last
  year in the improvement of roads in the commonwealths, our insular
  possessions, and Alaska. A new departure is to be found in two hundred
  pages devoted to papers upon those simple and non-technical features
  of highway construction and maintenance which a commissioner entrusted
  with the expenditure of road funds should know. There has been a
  demand for this from local road officials who have found that most of
  the treatises on roads are more useful to engineers than to the
  uninitiated. The American highway association has entered upon this
  work with enthusiasm, enlisting some fifty experts in it. The result
  is a veritable brief reference-book upon rural road building,
  applicable to the whole country.”—Nation

       + =Nation= 105:268 S 6 ‘17 170w


=AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS.= City planning progress in the United
States, 1917. il $2 Am. inst. of architects 710 17-15450

  “Valuable service has been rendered by the production of this survey
  of city-planning effort—and lack of effort—in 233 cities and towns of
  the United States. Information obtained from authentic published
  reports or from signed reports by responsible authorities is presented
  for every city and town of 25,000 or less (1916 census estimates) and
  for some smaller places. The review for each city and town is a
  readable account of local city-planning activities, whether private,
  semi-public or public. Maps and halftones are freely used. A ‘Summary’
  of four pages is devoted chiefly to progress at home and abroad in
  various lines during 1917. This is followed by four pages of
  city-planning references, by Theodora Kimball, Harvard university.”
  (Engin News-Rec) The compilation has been made by the Committee on
  town planning of the American institute of architects under the
  editorship of George B. Ford, city planner, to Newark and Jersey City,
  author of “Comprehensive city planning,” etc., assisted by Ralph F.
  Warner.

  “In the revised and extended edition promised early in 1919 it is to
  be hoped that an attempt will be made to bring out clearly for each
  city just what has been accomplished in the realization of the reports
  and plans reviewed. Where nothing has been done, it would perhaps help
  the cause, both locally and generally, to say so instead of leaving
  the reader to draw his own conclusions. The need for more definiteness
  may well be illustrated by the case of Hartford, Conn.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:603 Je 21 ‘17 380w


=AMERICAN POLITICAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION.= Teaching of government; report
by the Committee on instruction, C: Groves Haines, chairman. *$1.10
Macmillan 353 16-23033

  The report of a committee appointed in 1911 to investigate this
  subject. “Besides a very suggestive section on ‘Recent progress in the
  teaching of government,’ there are parts devoted to a report on the
  teaching of civics in secondary schools, the course of study, report
  on the teaching of political science in colleges and universities, and
  an appendix containing the report of state committees on the teaching
  of civics in elementary and secondary schools. ... The section on the
  course of study contains suggestions as to the subject-matter and
  methods of approach to the study of government in both the elementary
  and the secondary schools, and rather complete bibliographies on
  methods of teaching and books for both texts and references.” (School
  R)

         =A L A Bkl= 13:287 Ap ‘17

  “Teachers of government have waited long and patiently for this book.
  In some respects the book is likely to prove of service. On the other
  hand, its value is greatly impaired by the lack of orderliness in
  arrangement, by the inclusion of much that is of neither present-day
  interest nor usefulness, and by the complacent contempt for accuracy
  in matters of detail which the volume shows all too plainly. Within
  the twenty-odd pages of the bibliography, in fact, one may find
  excellent examples of nearly everything that a good bibliographer
  ought not to do.”

 *   – + =Nation= 104:314 Mr 15 ‘17 750w

  “The report is of considerable value and is well worth a careful
  perusal by civics teachers in both junior and senior high schools.”

       + =School R= 25:293 Ap ‘17 450w


=AMES, JOSEPH BUSHNELL.= Under boy scout colors. il *$1.35 (2c) Century
17-25246

  Dale Tompkins, a newsboy out of school hours, has faithfully studied
  the boy scout handbook in the hope of some day becoming a real scout.
  A sudden emergency, in which a little boy’s life is at stake, finds
  Dale with the necessary knowledge and skill at his command. At many
  other times in the course of the story, the value of boy scout
  training is put to the test and in the final chapter the team work of
  the entire troop is called for in a crisis. The story has appeared
  serially in St Nicholas, and has been “approved by the Boy scouts of
  America.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:135 Ja ‘18

  “A good and wholesome tale of its kind.” J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:498 D ‘17 190w

         =Lit D= 55:59 D 8 ‘17 50w


=ANDERSON, BENJAMIN MCALESTER.= Value of money. *$2.25 Macmillan 332
17-14066

  “Those economists who are thinking vitally are using money as their
  approach to economic theorizing. Professor Anderson is among these.
  This book aims to show money as a function rather than an instrument
  of modern business life. Because it is functional, it is dynamic,
  changing under the influence of complex social forces and in turn
  being a factor in the change of these social forces. In a word, the
  author applies the concept of social value which he has outlined in a
  former treatise to the problem of money value. This necessitates the
  refutation of the quantity theory of money, marginal utility and other
  fundamental principles of orthodox analysis.” (Survey) The author is
  assistant professor of economics at Harvard university.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:112 Ja ‘18

  “An important and rather technical discussion.”

       + =Ind= 92:487 D 8 ‘17 20w

  “Seldom does a book developing such novelties show such signs of
  patient study. Almost too much attention has been given to details and
  to defense of his differences with the defenders of the orthodox ideas
  on these subjects.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:298 Ag 12 ‘17 1100w

  “The book shows patient study and very thorough acquaintance with the
  literature of the subject. It will surely stimulate interest and
  discussion. It is a contribution to a slowly forming body of opinion
  which would rewrite economic theory in terms of a sounder social
  psychology.” H. F. Grady

       + =Survey= 39:74 O 20 ‘17 250w


=ANDERSON, ISABEL (PERKINS) (MRS LARZ ANDERSON).= Odd corners. il *$2.50
(3c) Dodd 910 17-28483

  Traveling in the unusual way means necessarily getting a view of
  things from an unaccustomed angle. House-boating, for instance, on
  inland waters from New York to Key West promises something new in the
  way of travel sensations. The writer’s zig zag journeyings take her
  across the southern states to California, down into Mexico, across to
  the gulf, thence to Spain and Morocco, on to India, back to England,
  over the fiords of Norway into Russia, across Siberia to Japan and
  thence to China. The chapters on China give glimpses of court life,
  tell of visits to famous temples in Peking, to mounds and tombs of the
  ancestors, and intimately describe sensations that natives, streets,
  and buildings produce upon the tourist in Hankow, Nankin and Shanghai.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:125 Ja ‘18

  “This last journey [to Mexico] was undertaken while Diaz still ruled
  and her observations are superficial and wholly from the point of view
  of the private car in which she traveled.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 130w

         =St Louis= 15:430 D ‘17 10w

  “When the wife of a member of the American diplomatic corps undertakes
  to tell the reading public of some of the corners of the world she has
  seen, there is always a promise of something out of the ordinary. And
  when such a writer brings to the task the enthusiasm and freshness
  that belong to the writings of Mrs Larz Anderson, the promise is
  usually more than fulfilled.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 N 16 ‘17 400w


=ANDERSON, ISABEL (PERKINS) (MRS LARZ ANDERSON).= Spell of the Hawaiian
Islands and the Philippines. (Spell ser.) il *$2.50 Page 919.69 16-23396

  “Out of her personal observations and many historic sources Mrs
  Anderson has gathered the material for the writing of her third book
  of travel. ... She has gathered into her latest volume a vast fund of
  information about our Pacific possessions. She writes about the land
  and its people, about the historic and political conditions, and she
  introduces her readers to the great scenic beauty of these islands,
  and to the quaint customs of their inhabitants. ... No less
  entertaining than her sketches of Hawaiian life are her descriptions
  of the Philippines, and they are all visualized by a series of
  excellently reproduced photographic illustrations.”—Boston Transcript

  “It has two good maps, one of the Hawaiian Islands, and one of the
  Philippines.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:263 Mr ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 25 ‘16 250w

       + =Dial= 62:150 F 22 ‘17 230w


=ANDERSON, PAUL LEWIS.= Pictorial photography; its principles and
practice. il *$2.50 Lippincott 770 17-21825

  “That there is a school of real photography in this country is
  evidenced in Mr Anderson’s ‘Pictorial photography,’ a handbook devoted
  almost wholly to the obtaining of beautiful, artistic effects in
  pictures made through the purely mechanical means of a camera and its
  accessories. ... ‘Pictorial photography’ is divided into five parts,
  Apparatus, Negative modification, Printing methods, Color and
  Miscellaneous. Its closing chapter on motion picture photography is a
  sane criticism of the admirable features and the faults of that
  important department of modern work with the camera.”—Boston
  Transcript

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:47 N ‘17

  “The illustrations in this book are revelations. They are free from
  the sharp decisiveness of the photograph we have known as a type, are
  rich in shadow and an occasional blur of mystery that lifts the
  product to a plane that is in essentials artistic.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 180w

         =Cleveland= p136 D ‘17 10w

  “A helpful manual, broad in scope but not too technical for the
  comprehension of the amateur.”

       + =Ind= 92:345 N 17 ‘17 120w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:651 O ‘17 30w

  “This volume comes with a distinct field of usefulness, and will find
  the welcome it deserves from all who realize the finer possibilities
  of lens work. ... But with all his intimate and extraordinarily
  well-digested knowledge of technical possibilities, Mr Anderson
  persistently keeps before the mind of the reader, who is also a
  photographer, that there is something more needed to produce the
  perfect picture than merely perfection of technique and taste in
  composition.” G. I. Colbron

       + =Pub W= 92:815 S 15 ‘17 500w


=ANDERSON, SHERWOOD.= Marching men. *$1.50 (2c) Lane 17-24209

  This is not a novel of war, but of labor. “Beaut” McGregor, son of a
  miner, “huge, graceless of body, indolent of mind, untrained,
  uneducated, hating the world,” saw his fellow-countrymen as “a vast,
  disorganized, undisciplined army, leaderless, uninspired, going in
  route-step along the road to they know not what end,” and the idea
  came to him to teach these men to march rhythmically, shoulder to
  shoulder, until they should become “one giant body,” and a brain
  should grow in the giant they had made. As a boy McGregor worked in
  his mother’s bakery and afterwards in a stable in the mining town
  where he was brought up. Then he went to Chicago where he worked his
  way up in an apple warehouse, studied law, and won a reputation by
  defending a man wrongly accused of murder. This success gave him a
  chance to leave his class, but his sense of solidarity with the
  working-class prevailed, and he continued to struggle to “make an army
  out of labor by progress from the mere rhythm of marching to a rhythm
  of like-mindedness in society.” (New Repub) Three women influenced his
  life—the undertaker’s daughter in the mining town; Edith, the milliner
  who gave him her savings that he might study, and Margaret, daughter
  of a rich man and worker in a settlement.

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:338 N ‘17 140w

  “Naturally all brief characterizations are unfair, but I suppose
  ‘Marching men’ might be described as a pæan to order and (quite
  incidentally, I hope) a naked and somewhat febrile celebration of
  force. It is, in fact, too insistently, too stridently and
  remorselessly dedicated to the main theme to make a wholly
  satisfactory novel. ... Mr Anderson’s is surely the last word of
  anti-intellectualism; for the men who follow McGregor do not know why
  they are marching or whither. ... Marching satisfies a deep
  disposition. Very well, let them march, and trust to luck that the
  collectivist mind will emerge. To present a programme would be only to
  repeat the old intellectualist fallacy of the socialists and the
  organizers. ... Mr Anderson has the skill to make you feel the thick
  press of life in great cities.” G: B. Donlin

     – + =Dial= 63:274 S 27 ‘17 1650w

         =Nation= 105:403 O 11 ‘17 600w

  “The sensational and spectacular scheme by which this Pennsylvania
  miner aspires to evoke the solidarity of labor hardly succeeds in
  escaping the ludicrous. But ‘Marching men’ is not a literal novel. It
  has, indeed, its large element of the caveman piffle that played such
  a part in the romanticizations of Jack London, but outside this
  puerility, this day-dream of the male egoist, there is a great deal of
  inspiring symbolism in ‘Marching men.’ ... The chief fact about
  ‘Marching men’ is not its rhetoric, its grandiloquence. It is its
  apprehension of the great fictional theme of our generation,
  industrial America.” F. H.

     + — =New Repub= 12:249 S 29 ‘17 1500w

  “Back of the new volume is a big idea, a strong purpose, a white
  light. It is obviously propaganda, interesting because it makes you
  thoughtful about the struggle that is going on here in Chicago and in
  all the labor centers of the land. ... Mr Anderson’s novel, while it
  compels one to read it to the end, is weak in many places. It savors
  too much of a preachment, and in the handling of the final chapters
  falls a bit flat.” J: N: Beffel

     + — =N Y Call= p14 N 11 ‘17 950w

  “A disappointing book. For in the very beginning of it the
  descriptions of Coal Creek, the miners, and Norman McGregor’s hatred
  alike of the place and of the people, are sufficiently well done to
  lead the reader to expect a novel of possibly a trifle more than
  average interest and average merit.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:442 O 28 ‘17 260w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:748 N ‘17 50w

  “Mr Anderson writes with an earnestness that cannot fail to awaken
  respect. Tho his characters occasionally—by no means always—sound a
  little more than human, his appreciation of the perversities of the
  social order—or disorder—and his sincere seeking for ‘the wherefore of
  the why,’ gain for this comparatively new author a sympathetic
  response.” Doris Webb

     + — =Pub W= 92:1372 O 20 ‘17 350w


=ANDREÄ, JOHANN VALENTIN.= Christianopolis; tr., with an historical
introd., by Felix Emil Held. (Germanic literature and culture) il *$1.25
Oxford 321.07 16-14590

  “Christianopolis, a translation from the Latin of Johann Valentin
  Andreae, portraying ‘an ideal state of the seventeenth century,’ is an
  important addition to utopian literature in the English language.
  Professor Held’s valuable introduction connects Christianopolis with
  the other utopias—Plato’s, More’s, Campanella’s City of the sun,
  Francis Bacon’s New Atlantis, Samuel Gott’s Solyma—and with
  seventeenth century educational reforms. The text ranges quaintly over
  many of the rough realities and the fine ideals with which every
  people is still struggling.”—Survey

  “The Latin original of this utopian sketch is very rare. It is just
  270 years since Robert Boyle, in a letter to Samuel Hartlib, exprest
  the wish that an English version of it might be made. Such a version
  has now been made, and well made, by Assistant Professor Held of Miami
  university.”

       + =Educ R= 53:428 Ap ‘17 100w

  “The introduction gives a conspectus of the literature on the whole
  subject, and will be useful for reference. It summarizes opinions,
  corrects errors, and rectifies ill-founded judgments. Dr Held
  doubtless overestimates his author, but the things for which Andreae
  may be regarded as noteworthy are properly specified, and a fair
  degree of probability is made out for the theses here propounded.”

       + =Nation= 104:375 Mr 29 ‘17 230w

  “Dr Held’s translation of ‘Christianopolis’ is not only accurate, but
  it reads easily.” C. A. Williams

       + =School R= 24:710 N ‘16 180w

       + =Survey= 37:586 F 17 ‘17 180w

  “The matter of his pages is admirable, but the manner it deserves is
  lacking. It is as the socialist who so long ago saw that the social
  question is a moral and religious one, as the promoter of educational
  and scientific reform, that he is important.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p341 Jl 19 ‘17 1350w


=ANDREYEV, LEONID NIKOLAEVICH.= Confessions of a little man during great
days; tr. from the Russian by R. S. Townsend. *$1.35 Knopf 17-26393

  “The book is just the quite shameless confession of a little clerk who
  gets no nearer the war than Petrograd, a futile, stupid, fussy,
  egoistic, but affectionate, sensitive, and somehow lovable little man
  of forty-five, with but one heroic quality, his honesty—at least to
  himself; he does not spare himself when he writes the diary that no
  one is to see. ... He wins your sympathy, from a fellow-feeling, and
  he keeps it, even when he is worrying about himself and his miserable
  digestion and his neglected state while his fine wife goes nursing,
  even when the smallness of his life makes him most ridiculous. ...
  Again when he decides to go to the front and serve with the ambulance
  you believe that he will go and somehow play his little part.”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

  “Registers his revolt against war, his gradual patriotic awakening and
  finally his desire to help. Will appeal to many Americans now entering
  upon similar experiences.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:448 Jl ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 My 26 ‘17 220w

  “Andreyev’s genius for analysis attains an intensity at times that is
  fairly hypnotic. ... But the analysis is not all. There are moments of
  great poetic freshness—pages of lyric beauty with accents exultant or
  despairing, as in the vivid pictures of springtime in Petrograd, or
  the moonlit city, still and mysterious and fearful, or the scene in
  the depot where the wounded soldiers arrive.”

       + =Dial= 62:527 Je 14 ‘17 280w

         =Pratt= p50 O ‘17 20w

  “This diary of a non-combatant increasingly touched by war is one of
  the most remarkable books the war has produced.”

       + =Sat R= 123:207 Mr 3 ‘17 720w

  “There is no purpose or propaganda here. All Andreyeff wants is to be
  honest, and he leaves you to make what you like of it. ... This
  honesty is what makes the book so absorbing, that and two other
  things; first, the extraordinary skill with which, in the simplest
  words, Andreyeff creates his little man and the splendid wife and the
  jolly children and the rest; and secondly, the fact that Ilya
  Petrovitch Dementev is a universal type. Even a brief, terrible
  description of how some women were tortured by Turks—Andreyeff’s one
  lapse into the ghastly—cannot altogether dismay you, for even here
  there is more pity than horror.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p92 F 22 ‘17 950w


=ANESAKI, MASAHARU.= Nichiren, the Buddhist prophet. il *$1.25 Harvard
univ. press 294 16-17131

  “This study is a kind of foreword to the author’s forthcoming work on
  the ‘Religious and moral development of the Japanese.’ The teachings
  and influence of Nichiren have played a large part in the present
  religious attitude of the Japanese nation. He has been called the
  ‘Nietzsche of Japan.’ ... His teachings, which unified religion and
  ethics, rescued pure Buddhism from the contamination of spurious
  beliefs and restored it to the purity of its original high ideals and
  to the worship of one Buddha (Buddha Sakya-muni), the Lord of the
  universe. To the restored purity of the Buddhist faith can be
  traced—at least in part—the great vitality of the Japanese nation.”—R
  of Rs

  “This sketch, written under the inspiration of Professor Royce and his
  own experiences as professor of Japanese literature and life at
  Harvard, will help to an understanding of Japan.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:196 F ‘17

         =Dial= 63:411 O 25 ‘17 200w

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:403 Ap ‘17 70w

  “Though he never converted the rulers of the land he gathered a
  considerable following and founded a sect which is to-day enjoying a
  notable revival. Nichiren, moreover, was not only a preacher, but a
  writer of real power, and Dr Anesaki has wisely given us many extracts
  from the ‘prophet’s’ essays and letters.”

       + =Nation= 104:24 Ja 4 ‘17 400w

  “This brief, clear exposition of Nichiren’s personality and teachings
  is a distinct contribution to the literature of religious psychology
  and a clearly cut portrait of a man western scholars will indeed be
  glad to know.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:105 Ja ‘17 270w

  “The author is professor of the science of religion at the Imperial
  university of Tokio.”

       + =St Louis= 15:94 Mr ‘17 15w

  “Undoubtedly the most complete history of the thoughts and acts of
  this remarkable man that has ever been published in the English
  language.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 330w


Annual of new poetry, 1917. *5s Constable & co., London 821.08

  “Thirty pages, and more, of this volume are occupied by ‘dramatic
  reveries’ from Mr Gibson’s ‘Livelihood.’ Seven other poets are
  included. Two, Mr Davies and Mr Drinkwater, furnish barely twenty
  pages between them. There remain Mr Sturge Moore and Mr R. C.
  Trevelyan, who contribute each a single long poem, Mr Robert Frost, Mr
  Gordon Bottomley, and Mr Edward Eastaway.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

         =Ath= p309 Je ‘17 80w

  “Perhaps the most interesting contributions to this volume are those
  by Edward Eastaway [Edward Thomas], whose poetic impulse was
  stimulated by the example of Robert Frost ... and who now lies dead on
  a French battlefield.” E: Garnett

         =Atlan= 120:373 S ‘17 210w

  “Mr Trevelyan’s drama is pretty enough but has none of the wit and
  brilliancy of his best work. ... Mr Gordon Bottomley contributes
  several beautiful little poems, all full of the pressure of life and
  death and of the greatness of to-day as coming out of yesterday and
  travelling to to-morrow. ... Mr Frost’s poems are just little bits of
  fact or incident which he has observed, sometimes more or less
  interesting, sometimes defiantly commonplace. ... Mr Eastaway is a
  real poet, with the truth in him. ... He has no instinct of selection.
  Several of his pieces here are not so much poems as notes out of which
  poems might have been made. But he has real imagination.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p151 Mr 29 ‘17 2000w


=APUKHTIN, ALEKSIEI NIKOLAEVICH.= From death to life; tr. from the
original by R. Frank and E: Huybers. il 60c R. Frank, 15 E. 40th st.,
N.Y. 17-15469

  “This first volume in the Gems of Russian literature series is a
  little book of sixty-odd pages containing a novelette by A. Apukhtin,
  Russian poet and novelist, who died in middle age a quarter of a
  century ago. The novelette might be called an essay in reincarnation,
  for it chronicles in the first person the thoughts and emotions of a
  man, a member of the Russian nobility, from the moment of his death
  until, on the day of his funeral, his individuality enters life again
  in the new-born infant of his wife’s maid. This brief shadow time is
  filled with intimations of previous existences which waver in and out
  through the dead man’s consciousness of what is going on around him,
  and it is ended by a passionate longing for life which fills him as
  his soul is born again into the body of the infant just entering the
  world.”—N Y Times

  “The extravagance of the central idea in no way detracts from one’s
  enjoyment of the piece. The prose is simple and direct—and the images
  are poetic.”

       + =Dial= 63:282 S 27 ‘17 150w

  “Such a trifle might seem memorable if stumbled on or more humbly
  presented, but for the first of a number of Gems of Russian literature
  it is scarce more glowing than artful glass.”

     – + =New Repub= 13:192 D 15 ‘17 160w

  “The eerie conceit is told with such simplicity and sincerity that it
  carries the air of absolute truth.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:260 Jl 8 ‘17 300w


=ARCHER, WILLIAM=, comp. Gems (?) of German thought. *$1.25 Doubleday
940.91 17-15965

  Extracts from over eighty books and pamphlets, of which the full
  titles and dates of publication are given in every instance, showing,
  “the dominant characteristics of German mentality,” and arranged under
  the headings: “Deutschland über alles”; German ambitions; War-worship;
  Ruthlessness; Machiavelism; England, France, and Belgium—especially
  England. Mr Archer states in his introduction that the great majority
  of the quotations are taken direct from the original sources, and adds
  that “it will be found by anyone who puts the matter to the test that
  in no case is there any unfairness in taking these brief extracts out
  of their context. The context is almost always an aggravating rather
  than an extenuating circumstance.” There is an “Index of books and
  pamphlets from which quotations are made,” and an “Index of authors,”
  with brief notes placing the different writers in the public life of
  Germany.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:17 O ‘17

         =Ath= p411 Ag ‘17 70w

  Reviewed by H. M. Kallen

         =Dial= 63:264 S 27 ‘17 1300w

         =Nation= 105:153 Ag 9 ‘17 330w

  “Mr Archer has done an important service, as ingenious as it is real,
  to the cause of truth and of sober realization of the fundamental
  causes of the great world war by the compilation of this volume.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:247 Jl 1 ‘17 870w

         =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 140w

  “It is unnecessary to insist upon Mr Archer’s qualifications for the
  task. As a literary and dramatic critic he has always been
  distinguished for independence, honesty, and a remarkable freedom from
  all insular bias. ... And his knowledge of continental literature is
  based upon first-hand acquaintance with the originals. The method he
  has adopted in this book is what might be expected from so well
  equipped and conscientious a writer.”

       + =Spec= 118:672 Je 16 ‘17 1700w

  “They are meant to amuse us—as they do, except when we stop to reflect
  that a certain blindness in the German mind, which they exemplify, and
  which is much more a lack of humor than of humanity, has been a trait
  that helped to make the war possible.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 520w


=ARCHER, WILLIAM.= God and Mr Wells; a critical examination of “God, the
invisible king.” *$1 Knopf (*1s 9d Watts & co., London) 201 17-24674

  “Mr Archer is concerned about what the men of the future may think of
  Mr Wells, and accordingly writes what is certainly a witty and
  exhilarating, and the publisher calls a ‘complete and crushing,’
  rejoinder. ... The critic’s point of view is that of the grave and
  respectful rationalist, who believes in the tendency of human progress
  towards good, but declines to be persuaded, by what he regards as ‘a
  mere system of nomenclature,’ into the belief that Mr Wells has found
  a new religion, a new God—in other words, the ‘key to the mystery of
  existence.’”—Ath

  “As a literary effort, Mr Archer’s book is clearer, more humorous, and
  much more convincing than the book that evoked it. We say this without
  intending any adjudication on the issues at stake.”

         =Ath= p406 Ag ‘17 130w

  Reviewed by W: L. Phelps

 *       =Bookm= 46:723 F ‘18 950w

  “Not much is left of Mr Wells’s glowingly imaginative creation after
  Mr Archer has devoted a hundred searching pages to its consideration
  but a large number of brightly colored shreds and tatters. Mr Archer
  has enjoyed himself very much in the making of them and the reader has
  equally enjoyed the process. But Mr Archer has not been simply
  destructive. As he goes along, and in a score or more of pages at the
  end, he modestly outlines a basis for man’s attitude toward the
  mystery of the universe and of himself that is austere almost to
  grimness but is simple, manful, and reasonable.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:368 S 30 ‘17 750w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:769 N ‘17 80w

  “In the latter part of his book Mr Archer extends his criticism from
  Mr Wells’s theology to Christian theology, and then he strikes us as
  no less ineffectual, because no less ignorant, and considerably less
  amusing, than Mr Wells when similarly engaged.”

       — =Spec= 118:92 Jl 28 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Archer is, it seems, an agnostic, and the destructive force of his
  Scottish intellect makes havoc with Mr Wells’s confident and bustling
  attempt to discover a God in the universe.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 1 ‘17 910w


=ARMSTRONG, HAMILTON FISH=, ed.[2] Book of New York verse. il *$2.50
Putnam 811.08

  An anthology of New York verse, fittingly introduced and concluded
  with selections from Walt Whitman and celebrating both the ancient
  glories and the modern beauties of the city. The early poems in the
  collection are arranged in order of events. We have: Verrazano in New
  York harbour; Hudson’s last voyage; Epitaph for Peter Stuyvesant; When
  Broadway was a country road, etc. The later poems are arranged loosely
  by locality: Central park; Brooklyn bridge; Washington square;
  Broadway. Among the modern poets represented are Sara Teasdale,
  Chester Firkins, Dana Burnet, Ruth Comfort Mitchell, James Oppenheim,
  and Edward Arlington Robinson. There are over sixty illustrations,
  many of them from interesting old prints.

     + — =New Repub= 13:322 Ja 12 ‘18 210w

  “In spite of its considerable bulk, this book of New York verse is
  hardly ever monotonous. The whole possession of the city’s past is
  suggested in the earlier pages, and no reader will leave them without
  a keen appreciation of Manhattan nomenclature.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:6 Ja 6 ‘18 620w


=ARNDT, WALTER TALLMADGE.= Emancipation of the American city. *$1.50
(2½c) Duffield 352 17-18177

  “Home rule appears to the author to be the first step toward a
  solution of the many problems of the modern city. Not only is the
  achievement of this step necessary to enable the city to direct its
  affairs in its own interest, but it is indispensable to the training
  of its citizens in moral self-direction. Concentration of business and
  political responsibility through commission government (or its
  equivalent), the short ballot, separation of local from national
  political issues, the substitution of independent for partisan
  tickets, an adequate and irreproachable civil service, the regulation
  and curtailment of public-utility franchises, the rationalization and
  standardization of the finance methods of the city within the limits
  at least of solvency—these are some of the most important reforms
  explained and urged.” (Dial) There are seven appendices dealing with
  city charters, preferential voting, etc., and a two page bibliography.

  “In not a few paragraphs the language, whether of criticism or of
  praise, is stronger than a dispassionate analysis of the facts would
  support. Nevertheless the book will make an effective appeal to those
  who like to drink their potions of reform propaganda with some ginger
  mixed in it.”

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:789 N ‘17 150w

  “Careful and illuminating study of the principles underlying home
  rule.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 3 ‘17 130w

  “The viewpoint of the author is decidedly sane and progressive, and
  the book may be trusted to hold the interest of the average reader.”

       + =Dial= 63:276 S 27 ‘17 200w

  “One of the best recent studies and discussions of American municipal
  government in the present age of reform.”

       + =Ind= 92:108 O 13 ‘17 100w

  “It might be said that Mr Arndt has made available in the most
  readable way all the best thought of the intelligent business class
  and their unconscious academic allies on municipal government
  reform. ... Here, it seems to me, lies the value of the book for us.
  It is a compact and handy guide to recent useful political inventions,
  some of which it will pay us well to appropriate for our own purpose.
  There is, however, abundant evidence in this work of an utter failure
  to understand the heaviest burdens to which our cities have fallen
  heir.” Evans Clark

     + — =N Y Call= p15 O 14 ‘17 1150w

  “One would have welcomed a more detailed account of the beginnings of
  municipal reform in this country, with some comment on the pioneers of
  the movement.”

     + — =R of Rs= 56:327 S ‘17 160w

  “The best field for the book is probably among those newly
  enfranchised women who desire a simple, straightforward account of
  current reform efforts as an aid in understanding public questions.”
  R. S. Childs

       + =Survey= 39:370 D 29 ‘17 180w


=ARNOLD, SARAH LOUISE.= Story of the Sargent industrial school at
Beacon, New York, 1891-1916. il Sarah L. Arnold, Simmons college, Boston
640.7 A17-1514

  An intimate account of the founding, growth and success of the Sargent
  industrial school at Beacon-on-Hudson. To establish a home school for
  girls, without an institutional aspect, where culture and refinement
  abound, where house-keeping and home-making are efficiently taught,
  where the community spirit is nourished—this was the original hope of
  the founder. She began her work in 1878 and from that time to the
  present has trained more than ten thousand girls. The program provides
  courses in sewing, dressmaking, embroidery, cooking, house-keeping,
  laundry work, physical training, singing and drawing. The influence of
  the school upon the community is a valuable aspect of Mrs Sargent’s
  success.


=ARNOLD, THOMAS JACKSON.= Early life and letters of General Thomas J.
Jackson, “Stonewall” Jackson. il *$2 Revell 17-241

  “From earliest childhood, Mr Arnold (who is a nephew of General
  Jackson) tells us, his memory is very clear as to the personal
  appearance of General Jackson, ‘and from that time forward I knew him
  quite well as a boy would know a man.’ ... In later years, Mr Arnold
  knew intimately General Jackson’s boyhood companions, and from them
  gathered much unpublished interesting information. In addition, he
  recently came into possession of more than one hundred letters from
  General Jackson’s private correspondence. Of all this material he has
  made good, judicious use, producing what seems to the reader to be a
  new, and certainly a true portrait of the famous Confederate
  chieftain.”—Lit D

  “These evidences of Jackson’s growth and inner life are both
  enlightening and characteristic, although it must be said that they do
  not materially qualify the picture we have in Dabney’s ‘Life and
  campaigns’ or Henderson’s remarkable portrait of more recent years. Mr
  Arnold has done his part of the work well and acceptably, without
  parade or undue hero-worship.” W: E. Dodd

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:413 Ja ‘18 1150w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:398 Je ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 31 ‘17 470w

  “The domestic qualities of Stonewall Jackson are traced in a biography
  by his widow, the military qualities, in the standard biography by
  Henderson. Neither Mrs Jackson nor Henderson, however, was fully or
  accurately informed about the early life of the great soldier.
  Information regarding these formative years has been gathered
  carefully by Mr Thomas J. Arnold, Jackson’s nephew, and is now
  published. ... For those who would become thoroughly acquainted with
  either the exact details of Jackson’s life, or the fulness of his
  character, an acquaintance with Mr Arnold’s work is indispensable.”

       + =Dial= 62:250 Mr 22 ‘17 250w

  “A somewhat new and very personal view of the Confederate leader.”

       + =Ind= 89:421 Mr 5 ‘17 160w

       + =Lit D= 54:260 F 3 ‘17 850w

         =R of Rs= 55:216 F ‘17 80w


=ARONOVICI, CAROL.= Social survey. (Bu. for social research of the
Seybert inst. of Philadelphia) il $1.25 (2½c) Harper press, 1012
Chancellor st., Philadelphia 309.1 16-17518

  This work has been developed from a pamphlet that was published as
  Bulletin no. 20 of the department of social and public service of the
  American Unitarian association. Parts of the book have also appeared
  in newspapers and magazines. Its purpose is to suggest lines of
  inquiry for those contemplating a local survey. Contents: The meaning
  of the survey; General considerations; Character of the community; The
  city plan; Local government; Suffrage; Industry; Health; Leisure;
  Education; Welfare agencies; Crime; Statistical facts and the survey;
  Social legislation and the survey; The facts and the people; A social
  program. A list of Social agencies of national scope is given in an
  appendix and there is a bibliography of thirty-six pages.

  “The volume gives evidence of rather hasty composition. Its
  workmanship is distinctly inferior to the grade which the writer has
  maintained in special articles. Current platitudes too frequently
  appear as substitutes for clear thinking. ... The book gives little or
  no evidence of any utilization of the numerous reports of social
  surveys. A noticeable deficiency is the absence of even a brief résumé
  of the social survey movement. The merits, rather than the
  deficiencies, of the book are likely to impress the majority of its
  readers. The section on housing is an exceptionally good piece of
  work. Well-selected charts provide striking illustrations. ... The
  bibliography is of service not only for its representative enumeration
  of surveys, but also for the classified selection of books. There is,
  however, no acknowledgment of the author’s evident indebtedness to the
  ‘Bibliography of the social survey,’ published by the Department of
  surveys and exhibits of the Russell Sage foundation.” E. W. Burgess

         =Am Econ= R 7:424 Je ‘17 420w

  “Based on the author’s wide experience as director of the Bureau for
  social research, Philadelphia, this book furnishes a good, usable text
  for civic clubs and classes or communities which are contemplating a
  survey.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:243 Mr ‘17

  “Closes with an excellent bibliography.”

       + =Cleveland= p37 Mr ‘17 60w

  “A useful introduction to the subject for the general reader, as well
  as a convenient manual of reference in regard to the important surveys
  already completed. The work is characterized thruout by an active
  appreciation of the value of facts as a guide to conduct, and of the
  value of vision in guiding research.”

       + =Ind= 90:217 Ap 28 ‘17 120w

  “It is not a handbook for social surveyors, but it is a first-rate
  introduction for the average citizen to the problems of his
  community.” R. E. Park

     + — =J Pol Econ= 25:752 Jl ‘17 270w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:8 Ja ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:131 F ‘17 90w

         =St Louis= 14:428 D ‘16


=ARTSYBASHEV, MIKHAIL PETROVICH.= Tales of the revolution; tr. by Percy
Pinkerton. *$1.50 (1½c) Huebsch 17-26653

  There are five stories in this book: Sheviriof; The blood-stain;
  Morning shadows; Pasha Tumanof; The doctor. All are stories of men and
  women who sacrificed themselves for the revolution. It appears a
  hopeless cause, in which a few helpless individuals hurl themselves in
  futile rebellion against an invincible power, but the stories, dark as
  they are, will be read with a different feeling now, when it is known
  that the sacrifice was not in vain.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:25 O ‘17

  “Characterized for the most part by a grim realism.”

         =Ath= p253 My ‘17 10w

  “This writer never lays himself open to criticism on the ground of
  inconsistency or of producing horror merely for horror’s sake. The
  emotions that he describes are justified by the situations which
  produce them, and these in turn by his characters, who are undoubtedly
  real to his experience. ... Personally we read him with mingled
  feelings—a deep admiration for his power and a feeling of the futility
  of its expenditure.” R. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 400w

  “Artzibashef was a very young man when he wrote some of the stories in
  ‘Tales of the revolution,’ but they show little sign of
  immaturity. ... We may not like the Russia he shows us, we may even
  profess to disbelieve in its existence, yet he himself is the best
  proof that it does exist. It is a Russia that we must take into
  account in the present crisis, and in spite of Artzibashef’s black
  pessimism, by no means as a factor altogether evil. For it is an
  honest and a straightforward and an unsentimental Russia, and even in
  its hopelessness it keeps on striving.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:249 Jl 1 ‘17 800w


=ASH, SHOLOM.=[2] Mottke, the vagabond (Mottke ganef); tr. and ed. by
Isaac Goldberg. *$1.50 (1½c) Luce, J: W. 17-30731

  This novel, translated from the Yiddish, is a story of life in a
  Jewish village in Russian Poland and in the underworld of Warsaw.
  Mottke is born into an overcrowded household. His mother, who gave
  birth to a child each year, earned her living and that of her family
  by nursing other people’s children, her own being left to survive or
  die, as it happened. Mottke, who early shows a tenacious grasp on
  life, survives, to grow up an unkempt, unlettered lad, the terror of
  his village. At fourteen he had experienced all the sensations of
  life—except murder. And that follows not long after. In turn Mottke is
  a blower in a glass factory, a member of a troupe of wandering
  acrobats, and keeper of a brothel. He is torn between his love for two
  women, is moved to reform himself for the sake of one of them, is
  betrayed by her, and in the face of the other’s efforts to save him,
  gives himself up to defeat.

  “The story has the usual characteristic of Russian literature,
  frankness, but also a certain wide humanity which makes it
  distinctive. In the great conflict of passions running through the
  book decency inevitably triumphs. The descriptions of Jewish life,
  told in nervous, vivid style are arresting.” I. W. L.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 22 ‘17 780w

  “The people throughout are well drawn, and the realism with which the
  life of the underworld is given makes it at once more pitiful and less
  alluring than most authors dare to present it. It is a sordid enough
  story, as far as its scenes go. Thieves, vagabonds, outcasts figure in
  it very largely. But they are not stereotyped, and therefore they have
  those moving qualities which belong to life in all its confusion of
  beauty and misery.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:570 D 23 ‘17 1000w


=ASHBEE, CHARLES ROBERT.= American league to enforce peace; with an
introd. by G. Lowes Dickinson. *2s 6d Allen & Unwin, London 341.1
17-24821

  “Mr Ashbee, who was one of the few Englishmen present at the
  inauguration of the American League to enforce peace, interprets in
  this book the tendencies of modern American opinion; and emphasizes
  the significance of that movement, which passed almost unnoticed in
  England until President Wilson’s speech in June, 1916. Like Mr
  Brailsford and others, he considers the adhesion of America to a
  League of nations would bring this project into the sphere of
  practical politics; and he is alive to the value of the United States
  as a counter-weight in the European league; for the United States,
  within its own borders, is solving by fusion some problems of
  nationality.”—Int J Ethics

       + =Ath= p256 My ‘17 90w

         =Int J Ethics= 27:539 Jl ‘17 100w

  “If Mr Ashbee does not later prove a true prophet, he has at any rate
  written a stimulating and incisive analysis of recent American public
  opinion towards international problems.”

       + =New Repub= 13:sup16 N 17 ‘17 170w

         =Spec= 118:568 My 19 ‘17 80w


=ASHLEY, ROSCOE LEWIS.= New civics; a textbook for secondary schools. il
*$1.20 Macmillan 353 17-11359

  “Part 1 is devoted to the topic, ‘The citizen and society,’ and
  contains chapters on citizenship, the education of the citizen, the
  American nation, civic organization, and the American home and family.
  Part 2 deals with ‘Government and the citizen’ and is made up of a
  chapter on each of the following topics: suffrage and elections, other
  means of popular control, civil liberty and public welfare, public
  finance, city government, state and country government, the national
  constitution, and the national government. Part 3 is on the general
  topic, ‘Some public activities.’ Public health and welfare, labor and
  industry, commerce, other business activities, territories and public
  land, and foreign relations are the subjects considered. The appendix
  contains an outline of a course on civic problems. ... At the end of
  each chapter there is a list of general references on the material
  considered in the chapter, a series of topics for special
  consideration with exact references on each, a group of studies which
  contain material for brief daily reports, and, finally, a number of
  questions based, for the most part, on the text. Besides the foregoing
  aids the book contains some sixty-four well-selected illustrations and
  eight maps and charts.”—School R

  “Equipped with excellent notes and teaching aids. The book has been
  recommended to teachers of citizenship for adults in the extension
  department of the Cleveland schools.”

       + =Cleveland= p135 D ‘17 90w

  “If books like this could be placed in every school it is no rash
  prediction that the electorate of the next generation would view
  political issues more sanely and thoughtfully than this.”

       + =Ind= 91:235 Ag 11 ‘17 70w

  “Singularly free from any partisanship. Written as a text for high
  schools, it may well serve as a handy reference to the general
  reader.” A. D.

       + =St Louis= 15:322 S ‘17 24w

  “From the standpoint of teaching aids the book has much to commend
  it. ... There is also an abundance of marginal notes as well as
  footnotes. On the whole the book is a decided improvement over the
  traditional text on civics.”

       + =School R= 25:532 S ‘17 280w


=ASHLEY, W. B.=, comp. Church advertising; its why and how; papers
delivered before the Church advertising section of the twelfth annual
convention of the Associated advertising clubs of the world. il *$1 (4c)
Lippincott 260 17-19521

  “A series of lively discussions of church advertising and publicity
  methods by authorities on the subject, who presented their views at
  the first national conference on church advertising held in
  Philadelphia in June, 1916. Seemingly nothing has been omitted in the
  way of church advertising, from the out-of-door devices, steeples,
  bulletins, etc., to moving pictures and newspaper publicity.”—R of Rs

       + =Ind= 91:293 Ag 25 ‘17 100w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:125 Ag ‘17

       + =R of Rs= 56:331 S ‘17 90w

  “This volume gives many useful suggestions for the church which is
  looking for ideas. Hesitating churches will likewise get inspiration.
  Tell the world about the gospel and do it in the 20th century
  way—advertising. That seems to be the burden of these exhortations.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ag 1 ‘17 250w


=ASHMUN, MARGARET ELIZA.= Heart of Isabel Carleton. il *$1.25 (2c)
Macmillan 17-25745

  A sequel to “Isabel Carleton’s year,” one of last season’s popular
  books for girls. The early scenes of the story are laid in London in
  the fall of 1914. Isabel and her cousin, Mrs Everard, who have been
  traveling on the continent, reach England just as war is declared. The
  second part of the story takes her back to Jefferson. She is joyfully
  received by her family and enters the state university with every
  promise for a bright future. But there is a dark cloud in her sky, for
  between herself and Rodney Fox, always her best and most understanding
  friend, there seems to be a barrier. But this situation is adjusted
  and Isabel is further made happy by the opportunity to do a service in
  memory of her friend, Molly Ramsay, whose death had been the tragic
  incident of the year before.

  “Distinguished by its wholesome simplicity and its emphasis on natural
  interests and companionships. Not as sentimental as its title.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:135 Ja ‘18

       + =N Y Times= 22:547 D 9 ‘17 70w

  “An agreeable story for girls.”

       + =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 20w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 140w


=ASHTON, HELEN.= Marshdikes. *$1.40 Brentano’s

  “Marshdikes is the house on the coast of England where Michael and
  Celia Dittany have made their home, and where they each do their
  writing. In different ways each has a sincere fondness for Francis
  Harland and a deep desire to bring more happiness into his life, as
  well as to give him some real interest in existence. For this reason
  they invite him to Marshdikes, hoping that this intimate glimpse of
  their own happiness may bring him nearer to falling in love with
  Michael’s young half-sister Letty, who imagines herself tremendously
  in love with Harland. Through a series of clever chapters, Francis
  evades their efforts, always fearful of where they may lead him and
  always content with his rather superficial life. The way in which
  Celia gains her end, only to discover at last that she has made a
  mistake, is cleverly managed.”—Boston Transcript

  “A certain gift of brilliant dialogue is the largest attraction of
  this novel by a new writer.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 320w

  “The story, which begins simply as a gay and sparkling tale, becomes
  more serious as it proceeds.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:137 Ap 15 ‘17 250w


=ATHERTON, MRS GERTRUDE FRANKLIN (HORN).= Living present. il *$1.50
(2½c) Stokes 940.91 17-18157

  Mrs Atherton spent several months in France in 1916 studying the work
  of French women. She devotes the major part of her book to the work
  they are doing to help win the war and to the changes that the war
  seems to be making in French life, especially in the re-action of the
  French woman to life. The last five chapters, under the caption
  “Feminism in peace and war,” discuss the present and probable future
  status of woman in the United States as well as in Europe.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:17 O ‘17

  “One gets a feeling of impressions caught at lightning speed and given
  out all the more personally for not having been mulled over and
  reasoned out.” Edna Kenton

       + =Bookm= 46:343 N ‘17 830w

  “A distinctly valuable sociological contribution as well as a vivid
  record of contemporary women.” D. F. G.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 920w

  “The second part of the present volume is worthless; but the first
  part where the author states facts, and does not attempt to
  philosophize, is interesting and even inspiring.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:124 O ‘17 570w

  “Strongly tinged with Mrs Atherton’s personality and feministic views,
  the book is readable and provocative of thought.”

       + =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 50w

  “Mrs Atherton’s book, we believe, would have been more delightful, had
  she confined herself to portraiture and narrative, instead of
  undertaking, rather superficially, an abstract discussion of values.”

     + — =Dial= 63:166 Ag 30 ‘17 400w

         =Ind= 91:352 S 1 ‘17 60w

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 1 ‘17 200w

  “Her book is a curious although intriguing jumble of prejudice, keen,
  swift insight, merciless observation and a good deal of perhaps
  unconscious snobbery. Only Mrs Atherton could have written it without
  misgivings.”

     + — =New Repub= 12:310 O 13 ‘17 450w

  “She writes with frank and astonishing one-sidedness.” C. W.

       — =N Y Call= p14 Ag 26 ‘17 180w

       + =N Y Times= 22:254 Jl 8 ‘17 950w

  “Of some of the ideas she strikes out, one can say only that they show
  ability, not that they are inherently sound. The notion, for example,
  that there is among woman an instinctive tendency toward a return to
  the primeval matriarchate, though none too seriously advanced, is yet
  advanced with more seriousness than it probably deserves. Inherently
  sound ideas are, however, not lacking.”

     + — =No Am= 206:635 O ‘17 950w

       + =Outlook= 116:592 Ag 15 ‘17 90w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:679 O ‘17 40w

  “Her speculations as to the bearing of the war on the future course of
  feminism in France are also provocatively stimulating.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p579 N 29 ‘17 770w.


=ATKINSON, ELEANOR (STACKHOUSE) (MRS FRANCIS BLAKE ATKINSON).= Hearts
undaunted; a romance of four frontiers. il *$1.30 (2c) Harper 17-31031

  This story follows the forward movement of the frontier from northern
  New York to Chicago. The heroine, Eleanor Lytle, spends her childhood
  as a captive among the Indians. As a little girl of three, she
  attracts the attention of Chief Cornplanter, who kidnaps her and makes
  her an honored member of his tribe. She is grown to young womanhood
  before she is returned to her sorrowing mother. To make up to her for
  the years of suffering, Eleanor marries the man who is her mother’s
  choice, but later, after his death, she marries one she loves and goes
  westward with him, as a pioneer to the new frontier.

  “Of limited appeal.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:168 F ‘18

  “Despite its interest, and the fact that it is based on historic
  truth, the book does lack the element of realism. It is glossed over
  with sentimentality; heroism and nobility are unrelieved by any mere
  human failing. It is, however, much more entertaining than the average
  romance, and the stressed historic note gives it an added interest.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:500 N 25 ‘17 400w


=ATWOOD, ALBERT WILLIAM.= How to get ahead; saving money and making it
work. *$1.25 (2c) Bobbs 331.84 17-6557

  “The purpose of this book is to help young men and women of moderate
  earning capacity to save and invest money. Incidentally its aim is to
  show the advantages of thrift. The main purpose is the practical one
  of explaining actual, workable methods of saving and investment.”
  (Introd.) The author writes on: Money—its use and abuse; Real and
  unreal wants; Personal finance; Family finance; Saving on small wages;
  Making money work; Owning a home; Different kinds of desirable
  investments, etc.

  “Author is a lecturer on finance at New York university.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:329 My ‘17

  “There is not much in recognition of those ideals of life which are
  higher than money making and money saving. But there are a few
  reminders that many wage-earners are failing to make the most of their
  opportunities.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 350w

       + =Ind= 90:517 Je 16 ‘17 40w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:43 Mr ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:689 O ‘17 40w

       + =St Louis= 15:135 My ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:347 S ‘17


=AUMONIER, STACY.= Friends, and other stories. *$1 (2½c) Century
17-23334

  “Stacy Aumonier, author of ‘Olga Bardel,’ is an Englishman well known
  in London as a landscape painter as well as a writer. This book
  contains three of his short stories, of which ‘The friends,’ which
  gives title to the volume, appeared in the Century Magazine. ... The
  other two, ‘The packet’ and ‘In the way of business,’ are similar in
  theme and treatment. ... All three deal with business men in London,
  salesmen and department managers of furniture or dry goods houses, and
  the central theme of all of them is the immense amount of alcohol
  these men consume by way of facilitating the conduct of their
  affairs. ... One of the stories, ‘In the way of business,’ deals with
  the business career of a hard-working, upright, morally fastidious man
  who does not like alcoholic drinks and to whom they are physically
  ruinous. The story tells how, notwithstanding his struggles, he cannot
  make a living for his family until, little by little, he comes round
  to the methods of the others, and what happened to him afterward.”—N Y
  Times

  “The initial story is by far the best of the three. ... There is no
  air of preaching about it, no attempt to draw a moral. It is just a
  story told with such fine realism, such artistic and impressive
  selection and arrangement of incidents that it becomes wholly
  convincing.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:336 S 9 ‘17 470w


=AUSTIN, FRANK EUGENE.= Examples in battery engineering. il $1.25
Austin, F. E., Hanover, N.H. 621.3 17-20028

  “‘Battery engineering’ is quite distinct from the subject of the
  chemistry, or chemical reactions accompanying the operation of
  batteries. The latter subject is not given extensive consideration in
  this book; it being deemed expedient to devote the discussion to those
  features that are of importance in the efficient industrial operation
  of any and all types or kinds of cells and batteries. ... The
  arrangement of the subject matter in lessons under important subject
  headings adapts the book for use as a textbook, while the discussion
  of the application of theory to practice renders the book useful to
  electricians, operators of submarines, and of automobiles.” (Preface)
  The author is a professor in the Thayer school of civil engineering
  connected with Dartmouth college.


=AUSTIN, FRANK EUGENE.= Preliminary mathematics. $1.20 Austin, F. E.,
Hanover, N.H. 512 17-11117

  “This book is designed by its author, a professor in the Thayer school
  of civil engineering connected with Dartmouth college, to serve as a
  connecting link between the study of arithmetic and the study of
  algebra. The subject matter up to page 77 is suitable for pupils in
  the eighth grade and below, while the remaining portion of the text
  will prove of assistance to pupils in the high schools. ... Many
  points are explained herein that are passed over in ordinary text
  books. The chief object of this book is to show how to solve
  problems.” (Preface)

  “Useful to one who has not had the advantages of school and wishes to
  take up arithmetic and algebra by himself.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:443 My ‘17 100w (Reprinted from Telephony p46
         Ap 7 ‘17)

         =Railway Mechanical Engineer= p175 Ap ‘17


=AUSTIN, MARY (HUNTER) (MRS STAFFORD W. AUSTIN).= The ford. il *$1.50
(1c) Houghton 17-11466

  California is at once the scene and the theme of this novel. Steven
  Brent, one of those men who have an instinctive feeling for the soil,
  who are meant to be its tillers, has nurtured his ranch, Las
  Palomitas, till it is on the point of paying, when he yields to the
  persuasions of his wife and the promises held out by the speculators
  and goes into oil. But men of his calibre are not built for
  speculation. Financial failure and the wife’s death come together. The
  story thereafter is concerned with the two Brent children, Anne and
  Kenneth, whose dream it is to buy back Las Palomitas. In the end it is
  Anne who accomplishes it, for Anne proves to have the business sense
  that those two lovers of the soil for its own sake, Kenneth and his
  father, lack. Anne is the new woman at her best.

  “Well written and more interesting for its atmosphere and character
  drawing than for its plot.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:448 Jl ‘17

  “A story of fine feeling and (to use a wooden term) exceptional
  workmanship. Its four women might be taken as a microcosm of the
  modern world of women.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:412 Je ‘17 550w

  “The great social and commercial plot behind these children is
  strongly handled and conveys more than any other American fiction
  since Frank Norris of what Mrs Austin calls the ‘epic quality of the
  west.’” J: Macy

       + =Dial= 63:112 Ag 16 ‘17 380w

  “The story is interesting, and yet it disappoints us in some way not
  easy to describe. There is a vagueness which allows the mind of the
  reader to wander and his interest to flag. ... Words cloud the plot
  and befog the issue.”

     + — =Lit D= 54:1858 Je 16 ‘17 180w

  “In this book is a substance worthy of Mrs Austin’s rich and finished
  style.”

       + =Nation= 104:601 My 17 ‘17 680w

  “Brooding deep beneath the ferocious animosities of capitalist and
  homesteader, Mary Austin has wrought in her still pastoral something
  of almost Biblical beauty. Some few novels of the year may offer as
  good construction; fewer as clear, racy diction; none a more
  satisfying picture than little dripping Kenneth with the drowned lamb
  in his arms.” T. D. Mygatt

       + =N Y Call= p14 Jl 1 ‘17 600w

       + =N Y Times= 22:157 Ap 22 ‘17 650w

  “Industrial conditions, business intrigue, social reactions, and the
  temperaments of individuals are all constantly involved among the
  motives of this remarkable tale, and all are treated with knowledge,
  with insight, and with feeling. It is one’s final impression, however,
  that the story as a whole fails to attain a quite sufficient unity and
  strength. ... The reader is roused as by an impassioned plea; he is
  stimulated to the point of being ready to change his whole outlook
  upon life and yet in the end he cannot tell whether the thing that has
  so impressed him is Providence or the brute forces of life or the
  spirit of California. ... One must marvel at the degree of success
  which Mrs Austin has attained in treating a broad and complex theme
  both comprehensively and minutely, both psychologically and epically.”

       + =No Am= 206:132 Jl ‘17 1050w

  “The description is clear and strong in its picture of industrial
  conditions. There are also charm and romance in the life of the young
  people. The plot and development are not as closely woven as one could
  wish.”

     + — =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 50w

  “Stands without a peer among recent books of fiction as a thoroughly
  characteristic portrayal of a typically American community of the
  West.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:663 Je ‘17 470w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 500w


=AYDELOTTE, FRANK=, ed. English and engineering. *$1.50 McGraw 620.7
17-4324

  A collection of essays for the use of English classes in engineering
  colleges. “A quotation from the introduction is the fullest
  explanation of Professor Aydelotte’s endeavor, and an index of the
  pedagogic value of his work: ‘To train the student to write by first
  training him to think—to stimulate his thought by directing his
  attention to problems of his own profession and of his own education
  and to the illumination of them which he can find in literature: these
  two tasks may be performed together—better together than
  separately—and with that double aim in view this collection has been
  made.’” (Engin Rec)

         =A L A Bkl= 13:340 My ‘17

  “An admirable collection of essays with a breadth and keenness of
  selection that certifies the right of its compiler to occupy the chair
  of English in one of our greatest engineering schools. Also a most
  commendable introduction whose ideas are unassailable and remarkably
  illustrated. ... In no sense can it be taken as a handbook. It needs
  the attrition of the class to make its somewhat hidden gold to
  glisten. To any except those who know writing and its methods, the
  collection of essays would prove a bewilderment.”

       + =Engin Rec= 75:275 F 17 ‘17 450w

  “If this book is designed for use in a course in freshman composition,
  it has too limited a scope, if it is to be used for the specific
  purpose indicated above, as a part of a broader programme, it is an
  admirable volume.”

         =Nation= 104:547 My 3 ‘17 400w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:61 Ap ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:204 Mr ‘17

  “‘Collection of selected essays, some by famous authors and some by
  others of lesser note. ... A most interesting collection of good
  writings that any man will profit by reading, and it should find a
  welcome on the shelf of every technical man who aspires, as he should,
  to evaluate the place that his profession occupies in the affairs of
  the world.’” D. S. Kimball

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:332 Ap ‘17 60w (Reprinted from American
         Machinist p440 Mr 8 ‘17)

  “The author is professor of English in the Massachusetts institute of
  technology.”

         =St Louis= 15:117 Ap ‘17 12w


=AYDELOTTE, FRANK.=[2] Oxford stamp, and other essays. *$1.20 Oxford 378
18-390

  “A group of essays forming the ‘educational creed of an American
  Oxonian’ is brought together in this volume whose writer is Professor
  Frank Aydelotte of the Massachusetts Institute of technology, and they
  are the fruits of his residence and study at the English university as
  a Rhodes scholar. ‘The holder of one of these appointments,’ he says,
  ‘who on his return from Oxford engages in university teaching in this
  country, inevitably makes comparisons, and looks at many of our
  educational problems from a new point of view. Much in the work and
  atmosphere of an English university is strikingly different from the
  adaptations of German university methods which have prevailed in our
  higher education for half a century. In the hope that this point of
  view may interest students of our educational problems, these essays
  are put together.’ Among their titles are ‘The Oxford stamp,’
  ‘Spectators and sport,’ ‘The religion of punch,’ ‘A challenge to
  Rhodes scholars,’ ‘English as humane letters,’ and ‘Robert Louis
  Stevenson darkening counsel.’”—Boston Transcript

  “Rarely before has the complex English college system and the unique
  English college life been described so clearly and so briefly.” E. F.
  E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 29 ‘17 950w


=AYSCOUGH, JOHN, pseud. (BP. FRANCIS BROWNING DREW BICKERSTAFFE-DREW).=
French windows. *$1.50 Longmans 940.91 17-24699

  The author of this book, the chapters of which originally appeared in
  the Month, an English periodical, was for the first eighteen months of
  the war attached to the British expeditionary force as chaplain to a
  field ambulance. The book does not describe military operations, but
  consists mainly of conversations with various French and British
  soldiers. Though John Ayscough is known as a writer of highly
  imaginative fiction, he assures us that every character and episode in
  these pages is taken from life, and that his first-hand impressions
  have not been retouched.

  “It sounds like a contradiction of terms to speak of a charming war
  book; yet this is exactly what John Ayscough’s new volume is—a book of
  the war, written in the very heat of the war and out of its turbulent
  heart, throbbing with its deepest feelings, and yet charming beyond
  words. Whatever of self-revelation the soldier himself in this war may
  write, we can never again quite so penetratingly see into it as John
  Ayscough makes us see.”

       + =Cath World= 106:683 F ‘18 210w

         =Cleveland= p85 Jl ‘17 60w

  “The book is always sympathetic, often heart-breaking, almost always
  tender, and not easy to forget.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:558 D 16 ‘17 430w

  “Episodes and characters are drawn from reality and each conversation
  is a portrait and a history.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:679 O ‘17 70w

  “Some of the conversations are of so intimate a character that it
  almost seems indecent to have recorded them. Humour and pathos jostle
  one another in these fugitive pages. John Ayscough seems to realize
  that if things are tragic enough they are funny. Insight and
  understanding are in this book, and, in spite of a tendency to
  occasional gush and rhapsody, it has a value of its own. It reveals
  the simple greatness of the English soldier.”

     + — =Sat R= 123:sup6 My 19 ‘17 100w

  “The point of view is that of a man of fifty-six, a Roman Catholic
  priest singularly devoid of any sectarian bias; one who, though not
  French, loves every field of France as if he had been born on it, and
  speaks her language fluently, if not idiomatically; a lover of his
  kind, ‘half priest and half poet’; and above all a thinker who looks
  at everything ‘sub specie æternitatis’, and even in the darkest hours
  remains undismayed and unshaken in his faith. ... This is a book which
  differs from most war books by reason of its aim. It shows that amid
  all that makes for brutalization and misery and despair in modern
  warfare, there are exultations as well as agonies, and that man’s soul
  remains unconquerable.”

       + =Spec= 118:61 Jl 21 ‘17 1650w

  “Mr Ayscough evidently inspires affection in the young soldiers with
  whom he lives; he betrays his natural pleasure thereat, with
  undeniable egotism and he records far too categorically the terms in
  which that affection is conveyed.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p197 Ap 26 ‘17 320w


=AZAN, PAUL JEAN LOUIS.= War of positions; with a preface by Brigadier
General Joseph E. Kuhn, U.S.A.; tr. at Harvard university. *$1.25
Harvard univ. press 355 17-22880

  “The author of this little book is one of the group of officers sent
  over here by the French government to assist in the training of
  officers for our new American army. As chief of the military mission
  which was sent to the Officers’ reserve training camp at Harvard, he
  worked there all spring and summer, arousing the greatest of
  enthusiasm among the hundreds of men who were in training under
  him. ... The same principles of warfare which he expounded to his
  pupils there he has explained in this book. ... In part one the author
  considers the present war, its general characteristics, the different
  forms of warfare it has developed, the fronts, attrition, principles
  of offensive and defensive, the rôle of a high command in an
  offensive, the functions of the different arms of the service. The
  second part deals with ‘Positions,’ their organization, trench duties
  and relief, while the third and fourth parts develop the principles of
  attack on a position and defense of a position.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:75 D ‘17

  “While written primarily for the instruction of American officers who
  are going abroad it is full of interest for the student of military
  history or for any intelligent reader.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:789 N ‘17 170w

  “The book ought to be of the greatest value to all officers and
  non-coms of the new American armies and of their privates as well. In
  his capacity as director of officers’ schools in France, Colonel Azan
  has trained a large part of the French officers up to and including
  the rank of major. He has, therefore, learned how to teach.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:453 N 4 ‘17 450w

         =St Louis= 15:417 D ‘17 20w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p571 N 22 ‘17 50w




                                   B


=BACHELLER, IRVING ADDISON.= Light in the clearing; a tale of the north
country in the time of Silas Wright. il *$1.50 (1c) Bobbs 17-11215

  A story of northern New York state in the first half of the nineteenth
  century. Much of it is woven about the career of Silas Wright, an
  early governor of the state. It is told in the first person, however,
  by Barton Baynes, a boy who came under Wright’s protection early in
  his career and who was inspired by the older man’s encouragement and
  example. The early chapters, telling of Barton’s boyhood, spent with
  stern-faced Aunt Deel and big-hearted Uncle Peabody, give a good
  picture of the life of the times.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:401 Je ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:408 Je ‘17 650w

  “Readers Mr Bacheller will have for his latest novel, and plenty of
  them, but it will not be long in passing into the dim obscurity of
  contemporary fiction. It is thoroughly out of date. It is not even a
  good example of the desirable things of the past, of those departed
  forms of fiction whose death we sometimes regret. It is distinctly the
  survival of the unfittest. Yet it is entertaining in its way.” E. F.
  E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ap 14 ‘17 1350w

       + =Cath World= 105:554 Jl ‘17 100w

  “Told with simplicity, kindly humor, and genuine understanding.”

       + =Dial= 62:483 My 31 ‘17 200w

  “Excellent as are Mr Bacheller’s other works—‘Eben Holden,’ ‘D’ri and
  I,’ and the ever-popular ‘Keeping up with Lizzie’—none of them equals
  this story of the forties, either in artistic finish or in breadth of
  spirit. It is a book we would like every American girl and boy to
  read.”

       + =Ind= 90:380 My 26 ‘17 150w

  “The book is amusing and certainly uplifting in its influence, but
  sometimes a trifle artificial.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1856 Je 16 ‘17 210w

  “‘The light in the clearing’ takes us, yet again, upon a sentimental
  journey, in a very good sense of the term, into the past. ... Mr
  Bacheller has the knack of making one’s throat swell with simple,
  homefelt emotion for the golden rule and other tritenesses which, for
  the most part, we are ready enough to abandon to the movies, literary
  and other.”

       + =Nation= 104:581 My 10 ‘17 560w

  “Very different in method and purpose from any of his previous
  stories, Mr Bacheller’s new novel must be accounted, at the outset, as
  quite the most important piece of fiction he has put forth.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:125 Ap 8 ‘17 850w

  “‘The light in the clearing’ is an exact complement to ‘Eben Holden,’
  as unmistakably good, less idyllic, but stronger. The two together
  would seem in themselves to assure their author a considerable and
  permanent place in American literature.”

       + =No Am= 205:947 Je ‘17 1200w

  “Sturdy American ideals are wholesomely offered to admiration and
  emulation.”

       + =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 50w

  “It is a story of simple, homespun life, full of wide, out-door
  freedom, and the healing, balsamic breath of a cleaner, younger
  world.” F: T. Cooper

       + =Pub W= 91:1316 Ap 21 ‘17 550w

  “While the story is episodical, it is skilfully knit, and the reader’s
  attention never relaxes until the final page is turned. The book will
  have a host of contented readers.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 13 ‘17 650w

  “The continual exaltation of commonplace virtues makes it a wholesome
  but somewhat tiresome story.”

     + — =Wis Lib Bul= 13:221 Jl ‘17 40w


=BACON, CORINNE=, comp. Children’s catalog of thirty-five hundred books;
a guide to the best reading for boys and girls. (Standard catalog ser.)
*$6 Wilson, H. W. 028.5 17-17986

  The first edition of the Children’s catalog, a 1,000-title list, was
  noted in the Digest in 1916. The 3,500-title list includes a few books
  in French and German; also a few 1916 books published too late for
  inclusion in the 2,000-title list. 700 volumes have been analyzed.
  “The editor has been fortunate in securing the advice and cooperation
  of Miss Agnes Cowing, of the Pratt institute free library; Miss Alice
  I. Hazeltine, of the St Louis public library; Miss Hatch, of the
  Cleveland public library, and of the staff of the Carnegie library of
  Pittsburgh. ... The numbers in parentheses after titles indicate
  approximately the grades for which the books are suitable, and have
  been taken for the most part from various library lists. Two of the
  collaborators also made suggestions as to grading.” (Preface) The
  1,000 list, buckram bound, sells for $2; the 2,000 list, for $4; the
  3,500 list for $6. These catalogs are also issued in paper covers
  printed on light-weight paper for quantity use. These are for sale
  exclusively to those who have previously purchased at least one bound
  copy. They are sold in lots of ten or more at 15c, 25c, and 40c per
  copy.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:272 Mr ‘17

  “This compilation, by one whose work in other lines gives assurance of
  more than usual merit, is based on many selected lists, and is the
  result of the advice and co-operation of children’s librarians and
  others familiar with literature for children.”

         =Bul of Bibliography= 9:112 Ja ‘17 170w

  “All workers with boys and girls, and especially those who have to do
  with school and public libraries will be grateful to the compiler for
  the infinite pains she has taken to make sure of a wise selection of
  really good, wholesome books for young people. Parents will do well to
  consult the catalog in the public library which they patronize. It
  goes without saying that every public library will make available this
  unsurpassed list, without which no library can be said to be properly
  equipped.” F. H. P.

       + =Education= 36:660 Je ‘17 140w

  “The author and publisher of this important book has done a great
  service to teachers in every grade of the elementary school. As the
  title indicates, the list is large enough to include the best in all
  of the more important fields of knowledge.”

       + =El School J= 18:77 S ‘17 350w

  “A most valuable bibliography of elementary-school children’s books
  and books about such books.”

       + =English Journal (Chicago)= 6:207 Mr ‘17 20w

  “It is needless to say the advice is trustworthy and of immense value
  to librarians, teachers and book purchasers.”

       + =Ind= 91:297 Ag 25 ‘17 60w

  “Every school and every home needs it in order to buy books
  intelligently.”

       + =Journal of Education= 85:702 Je 21 ‘17 120w

  “The catalog containing 2,000 titles and analyticals for 447 volumes
  has been practically tested in our children’s room and found to answer
  most of the demands, although for large collections the 3,500 list now
  [April, 1917] in preparation will of course be more satisfactory. ...
  The questions now asked by school children demand indexes that will
  lead directly to up-to-date reliable facts. How well this demand has
  been met may be judged by a few titles taken at random from the 2,000
  catalog. ... The profession owes a debt of gratitude to Miss Bacon for
  supplying so indispensable a tool that will lessen the present
  duplication of effort and promote greater efficiency.” N. M. De
  Laughter

       + =Public Libraries= 22:148 Ap ‘17 400w

  “The list will be useful to librarians for selection and for
  cataloging. The subject headings conform in the main to Miss Mann’s
  ‘Subject headings for use in dictionary catalogs of juvenile books.’
  It will be useful at the librarian’s desk if checked with books in the
  library and used as a printed catalog. ... Extra copies would be
  useful for the public, for special use of teachers, or for
  catalogers.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:18 Ja ‘17 270w


=BACON, CORINNE=, comp. Prison reform. *$1.25 (1c) Wilson, H. W. 365
17-4496

  This volume in the Handbook series is designed to give the reader a
  general knowledge of prison reform in the United States. The material
  of the book, a selection of the best articles from the literature on
  the subject, is arranged under nine headings: History of prison
  reform; Conditions and methods in prisons and reformatories; Sing Sing
  and Warden Osborne; Psychopathic clinics and classification of
  prisoners; Convict labor; Indeterminate sentence; Probation and
  parole; Jails; Centralized control of penal institutions. The
  bibliography, which is unusually full, follows a similar arrangement.
  A paper on “The prison of the future” has been written for the volume
  by Thomas Mott Osborne.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:288 Ap ‘17

         =Cath World= 105:835 S ‘17 140w

  “There is an excellent bibliography.”

       + =Cleveland= p39 Mr ‘17 80w

  “A timely and much-needed work.”

       + =Ind= 89:362 F 26 ‘17 20w

  “It is a compilation of over 90 articles by students and experts
  covering almost the entire field of penology. ... In addition to the
  300 pages devoted to the various aspects of reform within the walls,
  there is a valuable bibliography of 24 pages, listing books,
  pamphlets, reports, periodicals and many articles dealing with the
  general subject. ... We take pleasure in commending this book to all
  students and readers of penological problems.”

         =Journal of Prison Discipline and Philanthropy= n s 56:43 Mr
         ‘17 140w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 180w

  Reviewed by Philip Klein

         =Survey= 38:46 Ap 14 ‘17 120w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:59 F ‘17 60w


=BACON, GEORGE WASHINGTON.= Keeping young and well; annotated by W: T:
Fernie. *$1 (3c) Clode, E: J. 613 17-24683

  The author of “Health and longevity” packs these new chapters full of
  valuable matter which aims at a maximum of utility with a minimum of
  words. A long study of personal hygiene and a life-long practice of
  what the writer preaches give authority to his undertaking. Contents:
  Health hints for the home; Bodily organs and their functions; Our
  food, and errors in diet; The drink habit; Light, pure air and
  ventilation; Respiration and deep breathing; Cheerfulness and
  happiness; Exercise and rest; Sound sleep and its benefits; Vital
  energy—conserved or wasted; A long and healthy life; Fifty maxims and
  rules for the aged; Colds: causes, prevention, remedies; One hundred
  ailments—cause, prevention and home remedies; Our foods and their
  medicinal values; Medical glossary.


=BADLEY, JOHN HADEN.= Education after the war. *$1.25 Longmans 375 (Eng
ed E17-671)

  “The author has been for many years a leader in British education,
  especially in the Workers’ educational association, but he is best
  known for the demonstration school which he has maintained for
  twenty-four years at Petersfield in Hampshire. ... Mr J. H. Badley was
  trained at Rugby, at Cambridge and in Germany. He was interested with
  Cecil Reddie and Edward Carpenter in the opening of Abbotsholme, but
  turned from this work to the establishment of his old experimental
  school primarily because of his interest in coeducation. ... The book
  contains a careful consideration of the needs of each stage of life
  from the nursery up. The differentiation of workers and professional
  groups is well thought out. The plan for training for national service
  gives consideration to the claims of militarism.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Mr Badley rightly says that all subjects will be equally narrowing in
  their influence if the value of any kind of work be judged by the
  direct help it will give to the earning of an income. He proposes that
  special work required for professional training should be begun during
  the last two years of the suggested longer school course, with the
  object of relieving the university of much of the preliminary work
  which now usually occupies the first year of its course. Stress is
  laid upon the value of research to university students.”

       + =Ath= p355 Jl ‘17 200w

  “Of especial interest to Americans are the plans for training for
  national service. A positive program is given in detail but possibly
  of equal importance is the very clear showing of what is not essential
  to this training.” F. A. Manny

       + =Educ R= 54:191 S ‘17 600w

  “America has much to learn from what he offers.”

       + =Ind= 91:296 Ag 25 ‘17 100w

  “Those who have followed the author’s work will not be surprised to
  find the outline and details of this post-war program suggestive at
  many points for American needs.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 400w


=BAGWELL, RICHARD.= Ireland under the Stuarts and during the
interregnum. 3v v 3 *$5 Longmans 941.5

  =v 3= 1660-1690.

  “There are now six stately volumes written by Mr Bagwell, and in them
  he narrates the fortunes of his native land from the days of the
  Tudors to the fall of the Stuarts at the battle of the Boyne. ... In
  the larger part of the present book he has no other historian to fear,
  for he is the first to describe the reign of Charles II at any length
  or with any proper sense of the importance of its opening years. ...
  From measures to men there is an easy transition. The historian is
  quite at home in drawing the characters of men like Lord Robartes,
  Lord Berkeley, Essex, and Clarendon, who were the real governors of
  the country. ... Another prominent man is Tyrconnel, and a
  consideration of his strange career introduces quite naturally the
  revolution in Ireland. ... In the concluding chapters Mr Bagwell has a
  short account of the three churches and the social state of the
  country from the restoration to the revolution.” (The Times [London]
  Lit Sup) For volumes 1 and 2 of this history, consult Digest annual
  volume for 1909.

  “The first adequate account of Ireland during the restoration. That,
  in a sense, is the chief contribution of this present volume. ... From
  his pages are eliminated that passion which has made most Irish
  history all politics, and that memory of wrongs which has made most
  Irish politics all history.” W. C. Abbott

       + =Am Hist R= 22:645 Ap ‘17 1000w (Review of v 3)

  “Though Irish by birth, Mr Bagwell is probably of Anglo-Irish stock.
  In politics he is a Unionist of the more positive type. This fact is,
  of course, sufficient to render his work unacceptable to a large part
  of the reading public in Ireland; for in spite of his almost painful
  effort to do justice to both sides in the controversies of Britain, it
  is quite clear that Mr Bagwell regards the union of Ireland with
  England as one that is necessary to both countries. Critics generally
  have, however, found much to praise in Mr Bagwell’s histories. His
  evident fairness, his judicial attitude, his restraint in drawing
  conclusions and in framing statements have been remarked upon by many
  reviewers. For his literary style there is very little to be said: it
  is clear but prosy and bald.” L. M. Larson

       + =Dial= 62:354 Ap 19 ‘17 1600w (Review of v 3)

  “The first two volumes of ‘Ireland under the Tudors’ appeared in 1885.
  It was hailed in this Review as inaugurating ‘a new departure in Irish
  historiography,’ by its ‘judicial tone’ and its unprejudiced method of
  treating the political and ecclesiastical controversies of the
  sixteenth century. At the same time the complaint was made that ‘he
  crowded his canvas with too many facts to enable the student to
  realize quite distinctly the salient features of his subject.’ The
  present volume deserves the same praise, but is not open to similar
  criticism. Mr Bagwell’s six volumes (including in the total the three
  on ‘Ireland under the Tudors’) are a monument of well-directed
  industry, and he has gained in mastery of his materials as his work
  proceeded.” C. H. Firth

 *     + =Eng Hist R= 32:296 Ap ‘17 500w (Review of v 3)

  “Ireland, more, almost, than any other land, demands the candor of
  impartiality in those who would narrate its history. To have achieved
  this with such splendid thoroughness is Mr Bagwell’s peculiar triumph.
  The period under consideration is one of the most crucial in all Irish
  history. ... To read intelligently the history of the nineteenth
  century in Ireland one must understand and appreciate the results of
  this distribution of territory in the seventeenth. ... The book is
  provided with helpful notes and a useful index.”

 *   + + =Nation= 105:128 Ag 2 ‘17 330w (Review of v 3)

  “He does not describe the war after the Boyne, perhaps because Dr
  Murray has done this so thoroughly in his recent book. The chapters on
  social conditions and the churches are excellent but very brief. Dr
  Bagwell is reserved to a fault, but his history—the work of a whole
  generation—is the best and almost the only impartial account of Tudor
  and Stuart Ireland.”

       + =Spec= 117:sup533 N 4 ‘16 130w (Review of v 3)

  “Since the death of W. E. H. Lecky, Mr Richard Bagwell is the foremost
  Irish historian. ... No one could adequately review a book like that
  lying before us, and hope to do full justice to its many-sidedness.
  All we can say is that we have been steadily using its two
  predecessors in the course of our work on the Stuart period and that
  the more we use them the more we admire them.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p496 O 19 ‘16 1700w (Review of v
         3)


=BAILEY, EDGAR HENRY SUMMERFIELD.= Text-book of sanitary and applied
chemistry; or, The chemistry of water, air and food. 4th ed rev *$1.60
Macmillan 660 17-13814

  “Prof. E. H. S. Bailey’s ‘Sanitary and applied chemistry’ appears this
  year—the eleventh since its first publication—in a fourth, revised
  edition. Its persistence in recurring editions is testimony to the
  place it has won for itself in our colleges. Designed for students who
  have already had a course in general chemistry, it deals with the most
  important applications of chemistry to the life of the household,
  without attempting to cover the whole field of what may be called
  ‘chemistry in daily life.’ An important feature of the book is the
  introduction of directions for performing many well-chosen
  illustrative experiments. In this latest edition, the text has been
  corrected and much of it rewritten and brought down to date; and
  chapters on Textiles and on Poison and their antidotes have been
  added, increasing the contents by about sixty pages over the last
  previous edition of 1913. A good index enhances the working value of
  the text.”—Nation

  “The chapters on the Purification of water and Sewerage have been
  revised and brought up to date. ... There is no bibliography in this
  edition.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:455 Jl ‘17

  “It is not only an excellent textbook, but is written in such a clear
  style that it should prove valuable to housewives wishing a work of
  general information and reference on their everyday problems.”

       + =Ind= 91:264 Ag 18 ‘17 50w

       + =Nation= 105:275 S 6 ‘17 160w

         =St Louis= 15:393 N ‘17 20w

  “Throughout the text there are distributed 197 well selected
  experiments which will greatly help to fix important facts in the
  student’s mind.” W. P. Mason

       + =Science= n s 46:540 N 30 ‘17 100w


=BAILEY, HENRY CHRISTOPHER.= Highwayman. *$1.50 Dutton (Eng ed 15-19412)

  “The hero of ‘The highwayman’ is of the type that the Baroness Orczy
  delights in drawing—imperturbable, expressionless, of an ironical turn
  of mind, and possessed of depths which a woman’s charm alone can stir.
  In the generation of Harry Boyce these qualities cried out for
  adventure and romance, for it was also the generation of the ‘good’
  Queen Anne, of the Pretender, and of the great Duke of Marlborough.
  With all these did our hero have dealings, but more especially was he
  lured by the charms of the wayward Alison, whom fate and the impulse
  of a moment had given him to wife.”—Dial

  “We should have been glad to see more of the historical characters
  introduced by Mr Bailey, for he succeeded in creating a fascinating
  illusion of their presence and speech. Praise is due to the excellent
  style of the novel, which is undoubtedly the work of an accomplished
  and conscientious draftsman.”

       + =Ath= 1915, 2:174 S 11 200w

  “His wit is more after the manner of Fielding or of Wycherley than of
  the later and the modern historical sentimentalists. ‘The highwayman’
  is a good brisk story for those not too squeamish.”

         =Dial= 62:403 My 3 ‘17 120w

  “Piquancy is the chosen note, and the performer thoroughly enjoys
  being piquant. ... There is great play of wit in these pages, as well
  as the play of swords; the author especially loves, and liberally
  presents, the naughtiness of polite humor in the reign of Queen Anne.”

         =Nation= 104:460 Ap 19 ‘17 200w

       + =N Y Times= 22:136 Ap 15 ‘17 250w

  “An over-mannered and not altogether agreeable tale of Queen Anne’s
  time.”

       — =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 10w

  “A story most spirited, as is always Mr Bailey’s work, of the open
  road.”

       + =Spec= 115:513 O 16 ‘15 20w


=BAILEY, LIBERTY HYDE.= Standard cyclopedia of horticulture. 6v v 6 il
*$6 Macmillan 634 (14-6168)

  =v 6= “The last volume extends from S through Z. In addition there is
  a complete index to the six volumes, a finding list of binomials, a
  cultivator’s guide and a supplement of additional species which have
  been introduced to cultivation in this country since the first volumes
  were prepared. The list of collaborators contains the names of the
  most prominent men in horticulture and allied sciences in this
  country.”—Springf’d Republican

  “It is to be expected that the nomenclature of this work will be
  adopted so far as possible by all nurserymen and landscape architects,
  so that there will be some uniformity. A finding-list is intended to
  accompany volume six, giving the various more important common and
  botanical names of plants, with a reference to the name under which
  the plant appears in the cyclopedia. A committee of the American
  society of landscape architects, the Ornamental growers association,
  and other bodies interested, is now working upon the subject of the
  standardization of the names of plants, and the finding-list will have
  the benefit of their labors to the date of its publication.”

         =Landscape Architecture= 7:100 Ja ‘17 230w

         =N Y Times= 22:165 Ap 29 ‘17 80w

  “The sixth volume in every way upholds the high standard set by the
  preceding volumes. ... The cyclopedia is a work containing items of
  interest to the practical man as well as the scientist. Every group of
  plants is treated from both the practical side and the botanical
  viewpoint. ... It is of interest to the florist, market gardener,
  nurseryman, botanist, landscapist and all lovers of plant life. ...
  While there are many changes in nomenclature, they are such as have
  been recommended by the highest authorities in the country.”

     + + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 220w


=BAILEY, TEMPLE.= Mistress Anne. il *$1.35 (2c) Penn 17-11213

  “Mistress” Anne Warfield was a young Maryland school-teacher with
  clear ideals and a belief in the dignity of work. She was also the
  granddaughter of Cynthia Warfield, an aristocrat of the older South.
  So when the quiet of the little southern village was invaded by a
  popular novelist, a New York doctor and his mother (who, however, were
  of the South), and some brilliant society women, Anne’s innate good
  breeding overcame her inexperience and comparative poverty and she
  found her place among them. The scene changes from the quiet Maryland
  riverside to fashionable New York and three love-stories run to a
  comfortable conclusion.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:448 Jl ‘17

  “It is written in the same vein as its successful predecessor,
  ‘Contrary Mary,’ but is neither so quaint nor so touching nor so
  piquant as the earlier book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 9 ‘17 170w

         =N J Lib Bul= p7 Ap ‘17 20w

       + =N Y Times= 22:250 Jl 1 ‘17 250w

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:116 My ‘17 150w

       + =Outlook= 116:116 My 16 ‘17 20w

  “Even more praiseworthy than the story itself is the atmosphere of the
  book. Avoiding the flippant optimism, which has of late been so
  heavily exploited, Miss Bailey employs a more sane and convincing
  treatment.” Joseph Mosher

       + =Pub W= 91:1319 Ap 21 ‘17 420w

  “While it is primarily a wholesome love story, beneath the surface is
  a call to service in the great army that work for public weal. Anne
  Warfield is one of the most delightful heroines of the year’s novels.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:102 Jl ‘17 70w

  “The author pictures the loyalty of southern folk to their ancestral
  homes and their spirit of noblesse oblige.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 330w


=BAIN, FRANCIS WILLIAM.= Livery of Eve. il *$1.50 (5½c) Putnam 17-14951

  Another fairy tale in imitation of the Hindu. The tale is told by the
  Moony-crested god to the Daughter of the Snow, and at the end of it he
  propounds a conundrum. The tale is of Aparájitá, whose beauty was such
  that the only rival she had to fear was her own reflection in the
  pool, and of Kámarúpa, the barber, who was unrivaled for ugliness, and
  of Keshawa, the king, who cared nothing for women, altho he
  unfailingly attracted their love. To gain her own ends, Aparájitá
  makes use of the spell by means of which the soul may enter another
  body. The soul of the handsome king takes on the ugly body of the
  barber, and the ugly one finds himself enshrined in the body of the
  king. The conundrum at the end has to do with the old problem of
  women’s wiles.

  “No other European writer gives us such a sense of being absolutely at
  home with the Pundits. Kipling, in comparison with the author of ‘A
  digit of the moon’ or ‘A draught of the blue’ or ‘Ashes of a god,’
  seems to be a Cockney interloper.”

       + =Dial= 63:163 Ag 30 ‘17 370w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:123 Ag ‘17

  “We assure those who have read ‘A digit of the moon’ and ‘The ashes of
  a god’ with amusement and joy, that they will find equal pleasure in
  ‘The livery of Eve.’”

       + =R of Rs= 56:102 Jl ‘17 150w

  “Mr Bain shows us, with all his wonted mastery of picturesque simile
  and phrase, that the old Hindu spirit and imagination survive, after
  countless generations of foreign rule. He displays a Hindu literature,
  subtly blended with and purified by western poetic sentiment and
  western ethics. ... He has been more successful than most in creating
  in western minds the atmosphere of Indian romance.”

       + =Spec= 118:567 My 19 ‘17 1250w

  “While rich in local color, the book is not by a great deal so rich as
  ‘A digit of the moon.’ One looks almost in vain for the telling
  phrases, the subtly cultivated rhythms which in the first work brought
  the exotic beauty of tropic nights and days home to us.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 250w

  “We do less than justice to this book if we do not read it aloud, for
  each syllable has been hammered into place and is taking thrust and
  strain as in poetry.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p223 My 10 ‘17 1450w


=BAINVILLE, JACQUES.= Italy and the war; tr. by Bernard Miall. *$1 (1½c)
Doran 945 (Eng ed 17-26484)

  The author’s purpose is “to show Italy as the war has revealed her.”
  He says, “The Italian state is one of the most original and one of the
  most vigorous elements of modern Europe, and one of the richest in
  future promise. The war came at one of the most favourable moments of
  its growth and evolution. Italy was able to seize upon this moment,
  and to-morrow, we believe, she will count in the world for more than
  she counted yesterday.” He writes of: Italian opinions and intentions;
  The adaptations of the House of Savoy; The nationalist tradition;
  Italy is no longer the country of the dead; The Quirinal and the
  Vatican; From the Triple alliance to the Quadruple entente; The
  historic month in Italy; The future. The author is a Frenchman who has
  seen long service as a correspondent in Italy.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:442 Jl ‘17

  “M. Bainville’s work is of peculiar interest, and gives some idea of
  inner Italy, as well as of the motives which led to her intervention
  in the war.”

       + =Ath= p36 Ja ‘17 100w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 300w

  Reviewed by H. J. Laski

       + =Dial= 63:15 Je 28 ‘17 30w

       + =Lit D= 55:36 S 15 ‘17 450w

  “For us, his book is admirably informative.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:179 My 6 ‘17 750w

         =Pratt= p44 O ‘17 20w

         =R of Rs= 55:551 My ‘17 70w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 24 ‘17 430w


=BAIRNSFATHER, BRUCE.= Bullets and billets. il *$1.50 (3c) Putnam 940.91
17-3729

  Bruce Bairnsfather is a cartoonist whose drawings picture the humor of
  trench life. In this book he has written of the early days of the war,
  illustrating the account with some of his own sketches. Modern warfare
  appears to be a muddy business, but the good humor of the
  author-artist and his pals seemed to be proof against all physical
  discomforts.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:393 Je ‘17

  “Among the trivial books growing out of the war, this one found its
  place abroad and it will amuse a certain (or uncertain) number here.”

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 14 ‘17 70w

  Reviewed by P. F. Bicknell

       + =Dial= 62:306 Ap 5 ‘17 170w

  “Unfortunately for us our officer-author gets him a man servant
  shortly after the book begins and moves out of the picturesque mud—had
  he seen less of his own class and more of his men this might indeed
  have been a book to rival ‘Kitchener’s mob.’” Robert Lynd

       + =Pub W= 91:213 Ja 20 ‘17 200w

  “This volume is not in the least literary, but it bubbles over with
  laughter and a very human enjoyment of rare comforts. ... It is well
  illustrated, too.”

       + =Sat R= 122:580 D 16 ‘16 450w

  “The drawings of Captain Bairnsfather have become so much of an
  institution in the army that they scarcely need an introduction.
  Personally we are not convinced that some type might not have been
  found equally comic yet standing less questionably for all that the
  war means to a democracy that goes forth to fight. ... The book before
  us shows how much Captain Bairnsfather has in him. His jokes are
  spontaneous, and, when he tries, they fit the drawings perfectly. He
  has, moreover, firmness and a power to charm when he pleases.”

     + — =Spec= 118:239 F 24 ‘17 150w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Mr 25 ‘17 300w

  “Here we have an army officer who invariably depicts his men (to whom
  his book is dedicated) as the very type which the army is anxious to
  suppress. ... It is not with Captain Bairnsfather’s humour that we
  quarrel, for his situations are invariably amusing. It is because he
  standardizes—almost idealizes—a degraded type of face.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p621 D 21 ‘16 450w

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:123 Ap ‘17 80w


=BAKER, HARRY TORSEY.= Contemporary short story; a practical manual.
$1.25 Heath 808.3 17-1356

  “In the course of six chapters the author outlines in a lively manner
  the essentials of the American short story from both the editor’s and
  the reader’s point of view, drawing largely for his material upon his
  own personal editorial experience. ... ‘This volume,’ he says,
  ‘accordingly aims to teach promiscuous young authors, whether in or
  out of college, how to write stories that shall be marketable as well
  as artistic. It attempts to state succinctly, and as clearly as may
  be, some fundamental principles of short-story writing. ... Each
  chapter is followed by a series of suggestive questions for beginners
  in fiction, and at the end of his book are printed lists of American
  fiction magazines, books on the short story, and titles of
  representative short stories by English and American writers.’”—Boston
  Transcript

  “The chief criticism has been that he forgets the ideals of the
  masters and preaches ‘popularity and financial success at all
  hazards.’”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:301 Ap ‘17

  “Its author’s qualifications for his task are set forth after his name
  in these words: ‘Instructor in English in the University of Illinois,
  formerly special reader of fiction manuscripts, International magazine
  company, publishers of Good Housekeeping, Harper’s Bazar, etc.’ ... It
  is obvious again and again, as we turn the pages of Mr Baker’s book,
  that his knowledge of what sort of short story will be profitable runs
  far in advance of his critical faculty.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 20 ‘17 650w

  “Mr Baker’s drawback is that he has only one market in mind—the market
  represented by the American magazines that pay highest. ‘It pays,
  therefore,’ he writes ‘to find out in advance what American editors
  dislike’ ... But what is required is another standard altogether, not
  the raising of the commercial standard. A few editors might be induced
  to consider what discriminating minds approve of.” M. M. Colum

         =Dial= 62:347 Ap 19 ‘17 500w

  “Brief and ‘snappy’ book on manuscript salesmanship. ... If the author
  had only refrained from occasional references to art and artistry his
  little volume would have been wholly justifiable. For there is no
  reason in the world why short-story writers should not ply their trade
  for money. ... Only, when they do so, they should stop talking about
  art.”

         =Nation= 104:548 My 3 ‘17 420w

       — =New Repub= 10:108 F 24 ‘17 1350w

  “There is a really illuminating chapter on ‘How magazines differ,’
  followed by a description of a magazine office from the inside.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:162 Ap 22 ‘17 500w

  “A commonsense little volume that should find an audience despite the
  fact that it is an addition to a long list of books whose excellence
  varies with their number.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 16 ‘17 260w


=BAKER, ORIN CLARKSON.= Travelers’ aid society in America; principles
and methods. *$1 (6½c) Funk 910.2 17-14808

  This little book, published under the auspices of the Travelers’ aid
  society of New York city at the close of the thirtieth anniversary of
  active travelers’ aid work there, deals with the “protection from
  danger and prevention of crime for travelers, especially young women,
  girls and boys traveling alone.” (Sub-title) The appendix gives
  Instructions to agents.


=BAKER, RAY STANNARD (DAVID GRAYSON, pseud.).= Great possessions. il
*$1.30 (3c) Doubleday 17-28078

  A slender volume which nevertheless can lure one for a brief respite
  away from the strident noises of a care-troubled world into a realm
  where loafing with one’s soul is encouraged. It is another adventure
  in contentment, Grayson leading the way this time to the country where
  he points out the well-flavored things of garden and field—the smells,
  sights, sounds, touches and tastes, two of which, the sense of taste
  and the sense of smell, having been shabbily treated, he thinks, in
  the amiable rivalry of the senses. Other essays in the group delve
  down to the wealth of love to be found in the hearts of humble men.

  “Pleasant essays in the author’s familiar vein.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:84 D ‘17

  Reviewed by A. M. Chase

       + =Bookm= 46:336 N ‘17 250w

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 40w

  “A fitting successor to ‘The friendly road’ and ‘Adventures in
  contentment.’ A word should be said for Thomas Fogarty’s delightful
  drawings, which are entirely in harmony with the text.”

       + =Lit D= 55:43 D 8 ‘17 110w

  “What we dislike chiefly, perhaps, is the complacency of his mellow
  hieratic chant, with its double appeal to those who incline to go
  ‘back to the land,’ and to those who are determined to be ‘glad,’
  according to the current fashion (in fiction).”

     – + =Nation= 106:118 Ja 31 ‘18 510w

         =Outlook= 117:387 N 7 ‘17 40w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:804 D ‘17 20w

  “It is a privilege to come in contact with the type of mind here
  represented. He is eminently restful, and his attitude promotes a
  readjustment of values.” F: T. Cooper

       + =Pub W= 92:1379 O 20 ‘17 450w

  “It is a delightful book; rich in its wisdom, redolent of nature, and
  bespeaking a love for humble things and men of gentle will.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 18 ‘17 370w


=BAKSHY, ALEKSANDR.= Path of the modern Russian stage, and other essays.
il *7s 6d Palmer & Hayward, London 792 (Eng ed 17-17074)

  “In these essays the author is largely concerned with the problem of
  representational versus presentational stage performances. Should
  illusion be carried to its furthest limits? Should the play be
  represented, as at the Moscow art theatre, as ‘an independent entity
  existing side by side with’ the observing audience? Or should it be
  presented through the medium of the stage? Other matters dealt with
  are the advantages and disadvantages of ensemble-acting, and long-run
  plays. The concluding essay treats of ‘The kinematograph as art.’”—Ath

         =Ath= p541 N ‘16 70w

  “Valuable is the author’s essay on living space and the theatre, and
  his criticism of Mr Gordon Craig’s theories. But abstraction seems
  pushed to the point where words become abstracted from meaning in the
  essay on a poet-philosopher of modern Russia, the whole sustained in
  the Nietzschean jargon of the mythic opposition between Dionysus and
  Apollo. In more than one sentence the old opposition of the classic
  and romantic spirit is all that is implied.”

     + — =Int Studio= 61:99 Ap ‘17 250w

  “The impression left by Mr Bakshy’s very interesting book, which is
  full of suggestive remarks and illuminating criticism, is that there
  is very little future for naturalism.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p487 O 12 ‘16 1300w


=BANCROFT, GRIFFING.= Interlopers. il *$1.50 Bancroft co., 156 5th av.,
N.Y. 17-20421

  “A study of the ‘yellow peril,’ as the subtle and irresistible
  absorption of California by the Japanese, whom the law has excluded
  from citizenship, but has failed to keep off the land. ... The central
  figure of the story is that of a young eastern-bred doctor, who makes
  himself an outcast among the ranchers in Eden valley by being friendly
  with the Japanese. In the event, he wins his lady and reëstablishes
  himself in the world by discovering a serum for Asiatic cholera. But
  he does not solve, or even help to solve, the problem of the
  Californian and his Japanese rival. Not all the white man’s law and
  gospel can dislodge the yellow man when he has once set foot in Eden
  valley—an interloper destined in no long time to be acknowledged as
  master of the premises. The Jap, in fact, is the lustier pioneer, and
  with a backing of oriental gold and oriental cunning more than a match
  for the western-born.”—Nation

  “Though as a novelist Mr Bancroft still has something to acquire in
  coördinating the scenes of a story and in making his characters
  appealing, the book takes on a certain reality from the author’s
  extensive and affectionate knowledge of the country, and from his not
  altogether unsuccessful attempt to weave an interesting tale around
  his comment on the conditions introduced by the Japanese settlements.
  It is this last element that will make the book worth reading as
  evidence in a problem that is not without its possibilities as an
  international question.” F. I.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 8 ‘17 750w

  “The matter of the story is better than its manner: the characters
  have an air of struggling against the language the author puts into
  their mouths; for he makes them all talk like a book. The action is
  impeded by various dissertations on fruit-ranching, Japanese customs,
  or Asiatic cholera—very interesting in themselves.”

         =Nation= 105:247 S 6 ‘17 320w

  “The plot is merely a thread on which the author has hung a rather
  interesting essay on the Japanese in California.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:303 Ag 19 ‘17 350w


=BANCROFT, HUBERT HOWE.= In these latter days. $2 Blakely-Oswald co.,
124 Polk st., Chicago 304 17-25254

  Mr Bancroft is a historian with a long list of volumes to his credit.
  He has for some time made his home in California, so it is natural
  that many of the papers in this new book should deal with the problems
  of the Pacific coast, notably with questions of Asiatic immigration.
  “Contents: A problem in evolution; Apocalyptic; Infelicities of
  possession; Germany and Japan; The still small voice; Life’s complex
  ways; The psychology of lying; China and the United States; The
  autocracy of labor; Municipal rule and misrule; The declination of
  law; Fallacies and fantasies; The economics of education; The
  mysterious history of the spirit creation; Spiritual and rational
  development; Ab ovo; As others see us; Spirit worship of today; The
  new religion; The war in Europe; Crystallized civilization; Why a
  world industrial centre at San Francisco bay? Revival of citizenship;
  The initiative; Assurances for the future.” (Pittsburgh)

         =Boston Transcript= p9 O 20 ‘17 400w

         =N Y Times= 22:581 D 30 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:687 O ‘17 90w

  “This work of Mr Bancroft’s reveals the author’s pungency and
  individuality of mind, but reveals also signs of age. Mr Bancroft is
  eighty-five. Considering this fact, it is easy to understand his
  overwrought denunciations of current American life.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 2 ‘17 270w


=BANG, JACOB PETER.= Hurrah and hallelujah; a documentation; from the
Danish by Jessie Bröchner; with an introd. by Ralph Connor. *$1 (2c)
Doran 940.91 17-10428

  Dr Bang, of the University of Copenhagen, has collected excerpts from
  German poems, sermons, etc. His title is taken from a book of poems
  issued by a German pastor. His purpose is “to show, on the one hand,
  to what a pitch the contempt and hatred for things foreign has been
  carried, and, on the other hand, how widely the overestimation, not to
  say the worship, of things German has spread in Germany.” There are
  chapters on German prophets, German war poetry, The war in sermons,
  Speeches by German professors, etc. The book was prepared for
  publication in 1915.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:393 Je ‘17

         =Dial= 62:256 Mr 22 ‘17 130w

  Reviewed by H. M. Kallen

         =Dial= 63:263 S 27 ‘17 1100w

  “We do not know among modern books any one volume which will give to
  the English reader in so brief a form so clear a reflection of the
  militaristic spirit which seems to possess, not only the military
  leaders, but the teachers of every description in Germany.”

         =Outlook= 116:305 Je 20 ‘17 100w

  “Those who have any lingering doubts as to the wisdom of the present
  course taken by the government will find in ‘Hurrah and hallelujah,’ a
  collection of documents edited by Dr J. P. Bang, of the University of
  Copenhagen, a terrific arraignment of Germany out of the mouths of her
  own poets, prophets, professors, and teachers.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:552 My ‘17 130w

  “Prof. Bang, in his chapter on ‘The trend of German thought,’ makes
  the absurd mistake—or else the translation does—of classifying
  Nietzsche with Treitschke and Bernhardi as prophets of German
  world-power. Otherwise his observations are apparently correct. ...
  The numerous examples cited give the book its value.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 2 ‘17 950w

  “Dr Bang, who is a professor of the University of Copenhagen, and
  himself a distinguished theologian, has done well to publish this
  book. ... It is a valuable supplement to Professor Nippold’s book on
  German Chauvinism, which appeared shortly before the war, and to the
  similar collections made by Mr Alexander Gray in his three pamphlets,
  ‘The new leviathan,’ ‘The upright sheaf,’ and ‘The true pastime.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p630 D 28 ‘16 1200w


=BANGS, JOHN KENDRICK.= Half hours with the Idiot. *$1.25 (5c) Little
817 17-14182

  “Readers of Bangs are familiar with the boarding house of Mrs Pedagog
  for single gentlemen, where the Idiot, the Doctor, the Poet, the
  Bibliomaniac, and Mr Brief, the lawyer, assemble daily for
  refreshments. Over the waffles each morning the Idiot discourses of
  some theme of timely interest, like Christmas shopping, the income
  tax, medical conservation, etc.”—Springf’d Republican

         =A L A Bkl= 13:439 Jl ‘17

  “Not quite so spontaneous in their humor as the breakfast-table talks
  in ‘Coffee and repartee.’”

     + — =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 50w

  “Mr Bangs gives no intimation in this volume that his humor is in
  danger of going stale or ceasing. It is in his usual style, only more
  so, which is good enough for most of us.”

       + =Springf’d= Republican p17 Je 24 ‘17 160w


=BARBEE, LINDSEY.= Let’s pretend. il. 75c Denison 812 17-19694

  A book of fairy plays for children, provided with notes on costume and
  properties, stage directions, etc. Contents: The little pink lady; The
  ever-ever land; When the toys awake; The forest of every day; A
  Christmas tree joke; “If don’t-believe is changed into believe.” In
  some of the plays the number of characters is large, making them
  suitable for school entertainments where many children take part.

       + =Ind= 92:444 D 1 ‘17 30w

  “A book of delightful children’s plays. ... They are merry and
  whimsical and carry their little sermons unobtrusively.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:444 O ‘17 40w

  “The value of these plays is increased by practical directions for
  costuming, by stage directions and by other helps to production.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 20 ‘17 80w


=BARBER, CHARLES H.= Besieged in Kut and after. *5s Blackwood, London
940.91

  “Major Barber records his journey from Basra up to Kut, then the
  return of the army from Ctesiphon, the long-drawn siege, the hopes and
  disappointments, the surrender, life as a prisoner in Baghdad, his
  exchange, and the passage down the river again to the familiar lower
  reaches—familiar, but already transformed by the preparations for the
  new advance—and then the farewell to ‘the desert land where we had
  left only two good years of our life, measured by the standard of
  time, but a good ten by those of our feelings.’ What those feelings
  were it is easy to guess, though the author wraps them all in their
  wonderful natural cover of the soldier’s courage and hopefulness and
  kindness.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

       + =Sat R= 124:312 O 20 ‘17 250w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p371 Ag 2 ‘17 130w

  “Major Barber’s book is a little epic. ... And it is none the less an
  epic for being in form an impersonal and matter-of-fact record of
  daily events. The sub-title might be ‘Endurance.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p374 Ag 9 ‘17 780w


=BARBER, FREDERIC DELOS, and others.= First course in general science.
il *$1.25 Holt 502 16-17507

  “This book is written for the American school child. It opens with the
  statement that ‘the primary function of first-year general science is
  to give, as far as possible, a rational, orderly, scientific
  understanding of the pupil’s environment to the end that he may, to
  some extent, correctly interpret that environment and be master of it.
  It must be justified by its own intrinsic value as a training for
  life’s work.’ Setting out with this idea, the authors take the various
  phenomena with which the child is likely to be confronted, and deal
  with them in a manner calculated to arouse his interest.”—Nature

  “It covers somewhat the same field as Caldwell and Eikenberry
  (Booklist 11:299 Mr ‘15), but is, perhaps, more technical, fuller on
  physical science, heat, light, ventilation, and refrigeration, and
  contains less on biology and physical geography, has problems and
  exercises as well as more illustrations. ... A revision and
  enlargement of the author’s ‘Elements of physical science,’ published
  in 1906.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:379 Je ‘17

       + =Ind= 91:264 Ag 18 ‘17 120w

  “Its facts in regard to physics and vital phenomena are carefully
  stated, and the many applications of elementary principles to human
  welfare are ingeniously and clearly presented.”

       + =Nation= 104:560 My 3 ‘17 150w

  “Probably the best use of the book is as a teacher’s guide to give him
  ‘copy’ which he can work up and adapt to his own class.”

       + =Nature= 98:348 Ja 4 ‘17 400w


=BARBER, HERBERT LEE.= Story of the automobile; its history and
development from 1760 to 1917; with an analysis of the standing and
prospects of the automobile industry. il *$1.50 (2½c) Munson 629.2
17-16907

  As one reads the sub-title of this book he wonders what Franklin had
  to do with the automobile. Specifically, the author accords Franklin,
  as the discoverer of electricity, the credit for the electrical
  automobile, and, in a more general way, shows that in his teachings of
  frugality and thrift he laid the cornerstone, 150 years ago, on which
  the superstructure of the automobile business has been erected. The
  250 pages tell a concise story of the mechanical and commercial
  evolution of the automobile, its popularity and its democratization by
  Henry Ford. What will particularly interest makers and dealers is the
  analysis of the industry from a financial and investment standpoint,
  contributed by the Business Bourse International, Inc.


=BARBUSSE, HENRI.= Under fire; the story of a squad; tr. by Fitzwater
Wray. *$1.50 (1½c) Dutton 940.91 17-23984

  This book was first published in France, December, 1916, under the
  title, “Le feu,” and received the prize offered by the Académie
  Goncourt of Paris for the best book of the year. It has had a wide
  sale in France. The author is a French soldier who does not hesitate
  to relate the grim and sickening details of life at the front. He
  quotes a fellow-soldier as saying: “If you make the common soldiers
  talk in your book, are you going to make them talk like they do talk,
  or shall you put it all straight—into pretty talk?” And Mr Barbusse
  answers that he will not “put it all into pretty talk.” He has kept
  his word. The book is “not a chronicle, still less a diary, but
  combines pictures of men in masses, and of individual types,
  moralisings, impressions, observations, episodes, into a sort of epic
  of army life from the point of view of a private soldier.” (Bookm) And
  the soldier’s point of view on the war seems to be that while war has
  turned him and his fellows into “incredibly pitiful wretches, and
  savages as well, brutes, robbers, and dirty devils,” that, because
  they are fighting “for progress, not for a country; against error, not
  against a country” they must fight on until the spirit of war is
  slain, and, “there’ll no longer be the things done in the face of
  heaven by thirty millions of men who don’t want to do them.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:59 N ‘17

  “Its realism is carried to the extent that some passages are more than
  merely painful to the reader: they are repellent. There is so much
  insistence upon the dirt, the vermin, the stench, and the sordidness
  in the battle zones, and so wrapped in a charnel-house atmosphere are
  many pages, that we think the artistry of the book has suffered in
  consequence. However, it is, we repeat, a remarkable production: and
  it must be admitted that this tale of soldiering in its grimmest and
  grimiest aspects is well worth reading.”

     + — =Ath= p470 S ‘17 170w

  “The sub-title, the ‘Life of a squad,’ is somewhat misleading. There
  is much more than the life of a squad in this brilliant and varied
  narrative, which records or divines wide areas of experience.” F. M.
  Colby

       + =Bookm= 46:90 S ‘17 1250w

  “In contrast to his book, the others seem like documents, or pious
  memorial volumes, or collections of extracts from the average war
  articles in the magazines. Whether this difference will appear to
  those who read it only in the present English version it is hard to
  say, for the translator has come down upon it rather heavily.” C. M.
  Francis

     + — =Bookm= 46:451 D ‘17 150w

  “But a short time ago it would have been thought impossible that the
  war’s abominations could be restated with such force and vividness as
  to make them appear almost new to us, yet this is what has been
  accomplished here by a master hand exercising extraordinary gifts of
  expression with unrestricted freedom. The book is an achievement that
  will endure. If it reaches the huge sales here that are recorded of it
  in France, much credit will be due to the translator, who has done his
  work extremely well.”

       + =Cath World= 106:409 D ‘17 850w

  “He is magnificently indifferent to the curious editorial taboo which
  results in the frigid brevity of the war dispatch and the inhuman
  abstractions of Mr Frank H. Simonds. To a man tremendously in earnest
  who wanted to make those at home see and feel the war—yes and smell it
  too—any squeamishness would naturally be a simple irrelevance. It
  would not be thought of, and M. Barbusse hasn’t thought of it. The
  result is a book of terrific impact, a horrible and fascinating
  document that brings one nearer to the desolation and despair of No
  Man’s Land than anything else I have read.” G: B. Donlin

       + =Dial= 63:455 N 8 ‘17 1550w

  “Barbusse has the essentially French ability of creating atmosphere.
  The action moves in vivid patches and flashes of color against a gray
  background of mud and drizzling rain.”

       + =Ind= 92:561 D 22 ‘17 630w

  “It is unnecessary to have been at the front to judge of M. Barbusse’s
  veracity. It is a book that is no more to be questioned than the diary
  of Captain Scott or the deathless pages of Tolstoy.” F. H.

       + =New Repub= 12:358 O 27 ‘17 1700w

  “‘Under fire’ is an example of genre art, crude often, as Rodin’s
  casts are crude, as Millet’s paintings are crude. ... The greatest
  chapter in the book is the last called ‘The dawn.’” B. H.

       + =N Y Call= p14 N 25 ‘17 1550w

  “M. Barbusse has succeeded in giving an unforgettable impression of
  the war as it exists, and in offering us a new point of view from
  which to consider it and its fighters.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:360 S 23 ‘17 700w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:651 O ‘17 60w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:748 N ‘17 70w

  “Makes most other war books—barring perhaps Hugh’s letters from the
  trenches in ‘Mr Britling’ and Donald Hankey’s ‘Student in arms,’ first
  series—seem flat and soulless—merely pictorial, a kind of motion
  picture. We laugh with Empey in ‘Over the top,’ but here one doesn’t
  read to laugh.” Robert Lynd

       + =Pub W= 93:213 Ja 19 ‘18 600w


=BARCLAY, FLORENCE LOUISA (CHARLESWORTH) (MRS CHARLES W. BARCLAY).=
White ladies of Worcester. *$1.50 (1½c) Putnam 17-29023

  A novel which views such mediaeval matters as cloisters, feudal pomp
  and chivalry in the light of our twentieth century breadth of view.
  The hero possesses all the qualities of the knight of chivalry, its
  heroine is a cloistered maiden who humbly relinquishes her religious
  vows for love. But here is the modern note. The Bishop of Worcester
  not only brings the lovers together but in so doing voices the
  following sentiment: “Methinks these nunneries would serve a better
  purpose were they schools from which to send women forth into the
  world to be good wives and mothers, rather than storehouses filled
  with sad samples of nature’s great purposes deliberately unfulfilled.”
  The setting and atmosphere are true to the twelfth century.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:129 Ja ‘18

  “The book, which is overloaded with sentiment, does not carry
  conviction.”

       — =Ath= p679 D ‘17 90w

  “Except for an occasional ‘methinks,’ and incidental allusions to
  palfreys and battlements, the cumbersome trappings of mediaevalism,
  the battles, the conclaves, the obsolete language, are absent from the
  book. It is rather in the substance of the story that the spirit of an
  earlier day is felt.” Joseph Mosher

       + =Pub W= 92:1375 O 20 ‘17 450w

  “The story has an excellent plot, and is told with commendable
  restraint, and without the cloying sentimentality and wearisome
  artificialities characterizing so many of the author’s stories
  heretofore.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p11 Ja 27 ‘18 300w

  “A pleasing, sentimental romance. ... The whole is too obviously
  conceived in a modern spirit: we feel the medievalism is but stage
  scenery and the sentiments those of the twentieth century.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p530 N 1 ‘17 280w


=BARKER, ERNEST.= Ireland in the last fifty years (1866-1916). pa *1s 6d
Oxford 941.5 (Eng ed 17-14126)

  “The author begins with a survey of the period to which his book
  relates, and proceeds to discuss the Irish church and education, the
  agrarian question, and the government of Ireland. The latter part of
  the book deals with Ireland to-day. Mr Barker regards the rebellion of
  1916 as ‘a rebellion of those extremists who have, during the last
  fifty years, found their enemies no less in the Home rule party of
  Ireland than in the British government.’”—Ath

         =Ath= p203 Ap ‘17 70w

  “This well-written pamphlet gives a dispassionate account of Irish
  affairs during the last half-century. ... We must demur to Mr Barker’s
  suggestion that the Unionist party has accepted Home rule. He should
  have explained more clearly the position of protestant Ulster, which
  is imperfectly appreciated by those who do not know Ireland and her
  history.”

     + — =Spec= 118:210 F 17 ‘17 90w

  “Nor does he stop with the Church and Land acts—he goes on to discuss
  in some detail the whole agrarian problem in Ireland as the long
  series of Land acts has left it, with a peasantry relieved of
  ‘landlordism’ and turning to a variety of boards, departments, and
  associations for help and guidance in the new problems that confront
  them. This is the really valuable part of Mr Barker’s book, and it can
  be heartily recommended to all who wish to understand the present
  economic situation in Ireland.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p44 Ja 25 ‘17 650w


=BARKER, GRANVILLE.=[2] Three short plays. *$1 Little 822 17-30424

  “Rococo,” the first of the three plays, written in 1912, is a
  farce-comedy with scene laid in an English vicarage. “Vote by ballot,”
  dated 1914, is a comedy of English politics. The third “Farewell to
  the theatre,” written in 1916, is a conversation between two persons,
  a man and a woman, the second of whom is leaving the stage after a
  long career.

  “These plays are tempered with the thin, keen edge of Barker’s
  fastidious intellectualism. ... In this trifle [’Farewell to the
  theatre’], hardly a play, Barker is more the poet, or the symbolist,
  of ‘Souls on Fifth’ than the dramatist.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:109 Ja ‘18 190w


=BARKER, HARRY.= Public utility rates. *$4 McGraw 658 17-10566

  “A discussion of the principles and practice underlying charges for
  water, gas, electricity, communication and transportation services.”
  (Sub-title) “After eight years of collection, comparative analysis and
  study the author has brought to fruition his effort to present “a
  comprehensive discussion of (1) such corporation and municipal
  activities as affect service and rates, (2) the trend of public
  opinion and court and commission decisions, and (3) the most important
  engineering and economic problems involved.” This he has done ‘in the
  hope’ that the mere presentation, in one volume, of the diverse phases
  of rate making may be of service in provoking thought—‘in spite of the
  inherent shortcomings of the text.’” (Engin News-Rec)

  “Perhaps the most orderly and generally comprehensive of the many
  engineering treatises on valuation and rate making. ... The discussion
  is carefully balanced, and it offers many excellent criticisms and
  suggestions. The author appears public-spirited, with possibly an
  over-confidence that his own state of mind is that of public service
  corporation officials. If space permitted, many minor points might be
  profitably discussed or criticized.” J: Bauer

       + =Am Econ R= 7:636 S ‘17 140w

  “In its good style and thoroughly readable quality, the book reflects
  the author’s experience as an editor of one of the most successful
  technical weeklies (Engineering News). Though it treats a highly
  technical subject, it does so in a manner to command the interest of
  the reader, introducing him with a brief and pertinent historic sketch
  to a logical presentation of the subject, adding breadth and
  perspective by a discriminating analysis of the essential differences
  in the rate-making problem of different utilities. Its chief value
  lies in the comparison of the differences in the nature and past
  solutions of the problem. ... It should be particularly helpful to the
  young student.”

 *     + =Engin News-Rec= 79:322 Ag 16 ‘17 1450w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:90 Je ‘17

  “‘What is needed to save the observer from being swamped with facts in
  decisions and froth in partisan theories is just such a clear and
  unbiased analysis as Mr Barker’s work. ... The volume is the result of
  painstaking editorial observation over a period of eight years. ...
  Where there are two sides to a question each is given a fair
  statement.’”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:444 My ‘17 60w (Reprinted from Municipal
         Journal p539 Ap 12 ‘17)

         =Pratt= p27 O ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:171 Je ‘17


=BARKER, W. H., and SINCLAIR, CECILIA=, eds. West African folk-tales. il
*7s 6d Harrap & co., London 398.2

  These thirty-six tales are “based upon the folk-lore of the natives of
  the Gold coast.” (Ath) “The subject-matter has been obtained largely
  from native school teachers. ... Different versions of the same story
  have been collated, spurious additions discovered and discarded, and
  the common framework isolated and established. We are told that all
  the material thus collected will be available eventually for the use
  of the student of folk-lore; but in the meantime the authors have
  contented themselves with trying to interest a different and wider
  public in the subject by retelling the original basic stories as
  simply and directly as possible. ... [The book includes] the primitive
  version of a classic story which the negro slaves took with them
  across the Atlantic, and which emerged from the mouth of ‘Uncle
  Remus’ ... as the immortal adventure of Brer Rabbit and the Tar Baby.”
  (Spec)

  “A curious feature of the Gold coast folk-stories is the number of
  Anánsi or spider tales.”

       + =Ath= p463 S ‘17 150w

  “The tales are mostly of the explanatory ‘Just-So’ type which Kipling
  popularized, and although they have none of Kipling’s wonderful power
  of personification or triumph of linguistic invention in the telling,
  they are quite as ingenious and convincing in substance. ... The
  illustrations are delicately and imaginatively drawn, and exactly
  right to convey the spirit of the letterpress and to stimulate the
  curiosity of a child.”

       + =Spec= 119:247 S 8 ‘17 800w

  “These West African stories do not ‘grip’ as some others of their kind
  succeed in doing. ... They are not as dramatic as some, nor are they
  so surprising. ... The human element is lacking to them also; they
  throw little light on the manners and customs of the story-teller and
  his friends. ... A word may be said in appreciation of the
  illustrations. Their white outline on black ground is most effective.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p388 Ag 16 ‘17 900w


=BARNARD’S= Lincoln, the gift of Mr and Mrs Charles P. Taft to the city
of Cincinnati. il *50c (6½c) Stewart & Kidd 17-21909

  The most interesting contribution to this little volume is that of the
  sculptor, George Grey Barnard, who tells what the statue means to him
  and what he tried to make it express to others,—“Lincoln, the song of
  democracy written by God.” In addition the book presents various
  documents connected with the unveiling of the statue in Cincinnati: a
  poem by Dr Lyman Whitney Allen, the presentation address of William
  Howard Taft, and the speech of acceptance by George Puchta, mayor of
  the city. There are five illustrations from photographs, and one from
  an etching by E. T. Hurley.

         =Ind= 92:384 N 24 ‘17 400w

         =N Y Times= 22:476 N 18 ‘17 580w

  “Mr Taft’s address is a broad and true appreciation of Lincoln’s
  character.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 18 ‘17 650w


=BARNES, JOHN BRYSON (O. N. E., pseud.).= Elements of military sketching
and map reading. 3d ed rev il *75c (5c) Van Nostrand 623.71 17-14002

  “The publication of this book was undertaken with a view of providing
  a textbook suitable for beginners in the subject of military
  sketching. To the original book has been added chapters on map reading
  and landscape sketching.” (Preface) The book is illustrated with
  diagrams and sketches accompanying the text and folding maps are
  provided in a pocket at the end.

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p13 Jl ‘17


=BARNETT, GEORGE ERNEST, and MCCABE, DAVID ALOYSIUS.= Mediation,
investigation, and arbitration in industrial disputes. *$1.25 (6c)
Appleton 331.1 16-23810

  “The book is based on a study of the activities of the American
  national and state agencies of mediation and arbitration. The elements
  of weakness in the present system are analyzed, and the necessary
  conditions for the successful working of such systems are set forth.
  After giving due consideration to the experience of other countries in
  dealing with the problem of industrial disputes, particularly to the
  Canadian experience under the law for the compulsory investigation of
  such disputes, the authors present a plan for the reorganization of
  the existing systems.”—N Y Call

  Reviewed by E. L. Earp

       + =Am J Soc= 23:559 Ja ‘18 300w

  “Authoritative study. Useful for debates.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:5 O ‘17

  “The attitude of the authors is impartial and practical, and the
  treatment of the subject is scholarly. It might be wished that the
  results of the last three years be included in the book. The
  appendices contain the Newlands act and the recommendations of the
  Industrial commission on mediation, arbitration, etc.” J. T. Y.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:230 My ‘17 200w

         =Engin N= 77:108 Ja 18 ‘17 130w

       + =Ind= 89:508 Mr 19 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Call= p14 D 10 ‘16 80w

  “This volume is one of rather more than ordinary value. ... As a
  historical study and book of reference, trade unionists and Socialists
  should find this book a valuable addition to their material on the
  highly important and timely subjects of which it treats.” C. M. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 Mr 18 ‘17 300w

  “The book is timely and useful, particularly in its tendency to
  convince the unions that they are too successful for their own
  interests in some respects. Partisanship may win a battle or two, but
  fairness is needed to win the campaign for public sympathy and
  support.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:270 Jl 22 ‘17 620w

         =Pratt= p11 O ‘17 10w

  “The authors of this book, who hold chairs, respectively, at Johns
  Hopkins and Princeton, submitted a report in June, 1915, to the United
  States Commission on industrial relations. The present volume is based
  on that report but illustrated material has been added and the
  statements have been brought down to date. In this form it is the best
  available discussion of the subject in English.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:220 F ‘17 60w

         =St Louis= 15:47 F ‘17

  “The classifications in the book are admirably arranged, and its
  conclusions and recommendations are clearly set forth. It is somewhat
  unfortunate, however, that a book dealing with such an important
  problem does not contain more vitality. On the whole, the monograph is
  to be heartily recommended to everyone interested in social
  readjustments for its careful analysis and its timely suggestions.” H.
  W. Laidler

     + — =Survey= 39:45 O 13 ‘17 740w


=BARR, MRS AMELIA EDITH (HUDDLESTON).= Christine, a Fife fisher girl. il
*$1.50 (1½c) Appleton 17-22293

  The scene is laid in the little fishing village of Culraine, Scotland,
  some seventy years ago. Christine’s parents are hard-working, upright,
  shrewd, deeply religious fisher-folk, whose great ambition is to
  educate their son, Neil, as a dominie. With the help of Christine, who
  is intellectually the abler of the two, Neil prepares for the
  university, but chooses the law instead of the church, and while
  taking from his parents and Christine all that they can give, grows
  more and more forgetful and neglectful of them. The tragedy of the
  ungrateful son is balanced by the love story of the dutiful daughter,
  whose chief admirers are Angus Ballister, a gentleman, and Cluny
  Macpherson, a fisherman. The end of the story leaves her not only a
  happy wife, but a successful authoress.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:129 Ja ‘18

  “A love story of characteristic sweetness and charm.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:340 N ‘17 40w

  “Age can not wither nor custom stale Mrs Barr’s infinite variety. Her
  writing days have spanned many generations yet no more vigorous
  character has been given novel readers this year than her Christine.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 O 3 ‘17 270w

  “One carries away from this story a pleasant impression of fresh
  breezes, of a people strong and upright and generally goodhearted.
  ‘Christine: a Fife fisher girl,’ is a novel which will be warmly
  welcomed by Mrs Barr’s many admirers.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:333 S 9 ‘17 700w

  “As heretofore, the story betrays a high moral tone, which makes her
  novels well-nigh unique among the light fiction of the present day.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 220w


=BARR, MRS AMELIA EDITH (HUDDLESTON).= Joan. il *$1.50 Appleton 17-3151

  “Mrs Barr has gone to the mining region of Yorkshire for her latest
  novel, and has drawn a clear and convincing picture of the mining folk
  and the industry. A very different affair is Yorkshire mining from
  mining here in America, and in a foreword Mrs Barr explains the root
  of this difference. It lies chiefly in the fact that the miners in
  England are sons of the soil, men who have grown to maturity in the
  neighborhood in which they work, and who have followed their fathers
  ‘down pit.’ ... There is plenty of romance in the new story by a born
  writer of love stories, Joan being a winsome lass, with spirit and
  courage and beauty. Her fate is a man some years older than herself,
  and there is wealth and splendor, too, and many happy occurrences.
  Each character is well visualized; there is a human directness in Mrs
  Barr’s writing that becomes more pronounced as time passes.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 13:401 Je ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p8 F 21 ‘17 500w

  “Pleasing in its freshness and sincerity and especially interesting as
  the work of an author in her eighty-sixth year, who in this book is
  depicting the scenes with which she was familiar in her girlhood.”

       + =Cleveland= p33 Mr ‘17 70w

       + =N Y Times= 22:59 F 18 ‘17 650w


=BARRETT, SIR WILLIAM FLETCHER.= On the threshold of the unseen. 2d rev
ed *$2.50 Dutton (*6s 6d Kegan Paul, London) 134 17-29365

  “Sir William Barrett, who was for many years professor of experimental
  physics in the Royal college of science for Ireland, was one of the
  principal founders of the Psychical research society in 1882, and his
  interest in and close attention to the subject has been continuous for
  over forty years. In 1908 he published a book (written many years
  previously) containing his critical investigations under the title ‘On
  the threshold of a new world of thought.’ His present publication is
  in the nature of a new edition of that work, including fresh evidence
  (obtained independently of any professional mediums) as to survival
  after death. The book is in six parts. It opens with general matter on
  psychical research and the objections of science and of religion. Part
  2 discusses ‘the physical phenomena’—rappings, levitations, &c. ...
  Canons of evidence, mediumship, the subliminal self, &c., are then
  discussed. Part 4 collects particulars of apparitions, automatic
  writing, and other evidence of survival. Part 5 deals with
  clairvoyance, trance phenomena; considers difficulties; and advances
  various corrections and suggestions; and in Part 6 the deeper aspects
  of the matter are explored—the lesson of philosophy in the
  interpretation of nature; the mystery of personality; reincarnation;
  the implications of telepathy.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) Sir
  William Barrett is also the author of the volume on “Psychical
  research” in the Home university library.

         =Ath= p406 Ag ‘17 50w

  “It seems impossible for any reasonable man to dispute the case for
  further study, philosophic and scientific, of the evidence so far
  collected, and admirably presented in the volume here reviewed.” T. W.
  Rolleston

       + =Hibbert J= 16:172 O ‘17 1700w

  “The author has passed the psalmist’s warning milepost of threescore
  and ten, but his handling of evidential matter and his discussions in
  this volume show that his mind is still keen and fresh and has lost
  none of its habitual scientific method and temper. ... He discusses
  most interestingly his idea of an unseen world evolving in harmony
  with our own. This idea, it is apparent, is closely akin to that of a
  finite, evolving God which has been developed by philosophical writers
  from Kant down to William James and has just had forceful presentation
  by H. G. Wells. But Sir William nowhere intimates perception of the
  kinship of the two ideas.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:281 Jl 29 ‘17 1150w

  “What is of most immediate interest at the present moment is his
  account of certain very recent personal experiments conducted with
  well-known amateurs.”

       + =Spec= 118:612 Je 2 ‘17 1150w

  “The present short volume presents evidence and considerations on the
  spiritualist side with a welcome absence alike of credulity and of
  rhetoric.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p251 My 24 ‘17 300w

  “The chief interest of this book, primarily a clear and temperate
  presentation of the case for scientific spiritualism, is its
  suggestion that there is such a thing as a scientific
  spirituality. ... It is another matter when we can feel that the slow
  patient gropings of science are inspired by a spiritual aim. ... It is
  this that Sir William Barrett, like Sir Oliver Lodge, does not
  neglect. He keeps the reader aware that psychical research is the
  beginning of an attempt to test an intuition of reality. This is a
  real meeting ground for discussion.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p280 Je 14 ‘17 950w


=BARRIE, ROBERT.= My log. il *$2 Franklin press 17-22077

  “Robert Barrie was fortunate in having a father able to give him
  advantages in youth that many never attain to. When he was nearing the
  age of twenty-one he had his heart set on a bigger boat than those he
  had been sailing, and ‘the governor’ had the $2000 ready for it, but
  asked the boy to go around the world instead. He accepted on condition
  that his brother of seventeen should go with him, and that trip, which
  lasted well past a year, is the main part of ‘My log,’ written thirty
  years later for a birthday gift to ‘the governor.’ ... Paris bulks
  large in the later chapters, the Paris of the studios.”—Springf’d
  Republican

  “He brings back a life, seemingly as far removed from us today as that
  of the moyen age. A life whose freedom from wars and rumors of wars
  seems now well-nigh incredible. Of those moyen days Mr Barrie is
  delightfully reminiscent, rambling along from one subject to another,
  in the friendliest of ways which renders negligible any ‘barrier of
  limit,’ and makes the reader a ‘comrade of the road.’”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 S 12 ‘17 450w

  “The book has its entertaining aspects, but as a whole belongs to the
  class of autobiographies which are more interesting to the author’s
  own personal friends and to himself than to the public at large.”

     – + =Outlook= 117:64 S 12 ‘17 40w

  “Mr Barrie is a good raconteur and while his father and friends will
  appreciate the book more than anyone else, it has merit and style; and
  its make-up is such as one might expect in a gift from one maker of
  fine books to another.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p8 O 11 ‘17 180w


=BARRON, CLARENCE WALKER.= Mexican problem. il *$1 (4c) Houghton 917.2
17-20844

  Mr Barron, for ten years reporter on the Boston Transcript, is now
  manager of the Wall Street Journal, Boston News Bureau and
  Philadelphia News Bureau. He is also the author of “The audacious war”
  and “Twenty-eight essays on the Federal reserve act.” He went to
  Mexico to study the oil situation and found in that situation the
  solution of the Mexican problem, which he had “failed to find in
  railroad, agricultural or mining development.” The result of his
  observations is embodied in this book, the greater part of which “is
  devoted to an account of the development of the oil industry in
  Mexico, to its various conflicting interests, and to the influence and
  work of Edward Doheny, the man who ‘has always stood by’ and who is as
  much concerned with the social as with the commercial problem of
  Mexico.” (Boston Transcript) There are a number of illustrations from
  photographs, and, at the end, a map showing the lands of the Mexican
  petroleum company. The preface is by Talcott Williams.

         =Am Econ R= 7:840 D ‘17 30w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:52 N ‘17

         =Am Pol Sci R= 11:794 N ‘17 40w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 15 ‘17 450w

         =Cath World= 106:392 D ‘17 200w

         =Cleveland= p123 N ‘17 40w

  “Granting that all the facts are so stated by Mr Barren, that he is
  not far out of the way in his deductions, and that his little book is
  worthy of attention, he but touches the surface of the Mexican problem
  as it exists to-day.”

     – + =Dial= 63:400 O 25 ‘17 450w

  “Mr Barron writes himself down as 100 per cent plutocratic, and even
  Prussian in his outlook upon life. ... Mexico is a great country. Mr
  Barron looks at it only as a means of getting oil for American and
  foreign capitalism. Mexico has been in disorder for years. He wants
  tranquility. And he has written this book as a means of arousing
  American public opinion to consent to intervention in the unhappy
  nation to the south.” W: M. Feigenbaum

       — =N Y Call= p15 S 30 ‘17 480w

  “Mr Talcott Williams’s preface is only some twenty-five pages in
  length, but it compacts the thought and experience of a lifetime by a
  man with peculiar opportunities for a just judgment upon conditions
  like Mexico’s. ... Both Mr Barron and Mr Williams draw an attractive
  picture of the Mexican people.”

 *       =N Y Times= 22:305 Ag 19 ‘17 1350w

  “Supplies fresh and valuable information on the petroleum industry in
  the Tampico-Tuxpan oil fields.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:759 N ‘17 60w

  “This book supplies fresh and valuable information concerning one
  major economic interest in Mexico—petroleum. But quite outside its
  purview lie four others—agriculture, mines, rubber, henequen. It
  surveys with some degree of intimacy five to ten thousand square miles
  of territory. Mexico has over 750,000. No reader of the volume can
  afford to forget these limitations. Within them it is an excellent
  piece of work. ... Mr Barron is sympathetic in his attitude toward the
  Mexican people ... but rather sharp with the Mexican government. He is
  also impatient with Washington.” G. B. Winton

       + =Survey= 38:551 S 22 ‘17 410w


=BARROW, GEORGE ALEXANDER.= Validity of the religious experience. *$1.50
(2c) Sherman, French & co. 201 17-13311

  As a preliminary study in the philosophy of religion, the author makes
  an examination of religious experience. He accepts religious
  experience as a fact, as something which happens. He says, “In raising
  the question of validity, whatever we may mean, we do not mean to
  question the fact of its existence or what its existence includes. We
  do not ask whether any given case of religion is or is not a true
  religious experience. We are concerned only with the form of the
  religious experience and the questions we ask are questions of
  possibility and of implication. Our analysis is therefore to be an
  analysis of concepts.” The book consists of seven lectures delivered
  originally at Harvard university. Contents: The problem of a
  philosophy of religion; Religion real and unique; The source of
  religion; The test of religion; Human and superhuman; Personality; A
  foundation for theology.

  “His work will satisfy the scholar, but it is too ponderous and heavy
  for the average reader. If his thesis could be set forth in half the
  words and in more popular style it would insure itself of wider
  reading.” G. F.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 19 ‘17 470w

  “The effort, unusual in these days, to determine the real by analysis
  of the mere form of experience, produces here, as it has so often
  done, abstractness of treatment and dryness of style.” G: A. Coe

     – + =Educ R= 54:523 D ‘17 400w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:117 Ag ‘17


=BARRY, WILLIAM FRANCIS.= World’s debate; an historical defence of the
Allies. *$1.25 Doran 940.9

  “The peace of Westphalia, the execution of Charles I, Washington,
  Napoleon, the Vatican council, not to speak of the real protagonists,
  Bismarck and the German emperor, the Boer war, Queen Victoria, and
  President Wilson all contribute to Dr Barry’s picture of ‘The world’s
  debate,’ which we need not say is the debate between civilization and
  kultur, between the Catholic Christian ideal of France and England and
  the heathenism of Prussia.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) The author
  says, “‘Autocracy in its assault on democracy was my subject; but my
  hope was to prove by facts and history two things: first that absolute
  power is doomed ... and, in the second place, that democracy and
  Christianity ought to recognize each other as by origin and spirit of
  the same nature.’” (The Times [London] Lit Sup Ag 23 ‘17)

  “The whole method of handling bears the stamp of originality. When the
  historian combines with scientific exactness the imagination of the
  poet and the vision of the preacher he holds a powerful weapon with
  which to drive home truth.” A. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 14 ‘17 750w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p407 Ag 23 ‘17 50w

  “Dr Barry is a pleasant guide; often rambling and discursive, with no
  very deep display of learning, he gives us his interpretations of the
  moral of modern history, and from time to time illustrates his story
  by the personal reminiscences which make the book resemble a pleasant
  conversation.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p411 Ag 30 ‘17 850w


=BARTLETT, FREDERICK ORIN.= Triflers. il *$1.40 (2c) Houghton 17-10201

  A man and a woman, Americans, who meet by chance in Paris, decide in a
  most commonsense and business-like way to marry. They have known one
  another for ten years altho they have seen little of one another. The
  serious responsibilities of marriage are distasteful to both of them,
  but the marriage they agree upon is to have no responsibilities.
  Marjory, for her part, desires freedom. The working out of the
  experiment is the theme of the story. Their meeting with an old lover
  of Marjory’s induces the two triflers to look at life seriously. By
  this time too they have fallen deeply in love with one another.

  “Brightly written and entertaining in its way.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:401 Je ‘17

  “Having begun with an arbitrary and improbable, if not impossible,
  situation, the author is at some pains to motivate fully the rest of
  his tale. He has succeeded in tracing real character development, and
  has subordinated circumstances to it in a large measure.” R. W.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 Ap 14 ‘17 440w

  “Mr Bartlett has so much skill and charm, his style is so clear and
  pleasing that some day he will surely write a less trifling book.”

     – + =Dial= 62:528 Je 14 ‘17 100w

         =Nation= 105:16 Jl 5 ‘17 130w

       + =N Y Times= 22:214 Je 3 ‘17 280w

  “A somewhat improbable romance. ... The book is hardly on the level
  with Mr Bartlett’s ‘Wall street girl,’ which was notably original and
  true to life.”

     – + =Outlook= 115:710 Ap 18 ‘17 80w

  “The reader is not denied a happy ending, but the suspension of
  interest coincides with the interjection of the false note.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 280w


=BARTLEY, MRS NALBRO ISADORAH.= Paradise auction. il *$1.50 (1c) Small
17-23973

  The influence of one gracious and beautiful woman on the lives of four
  young people is the central theme of this story. “Darly,” so called
  from her son’s childish name for her, had been a famous English
  actress in her youth, but she had given up the stage and had come to a
  small American city in order to give her child a simple and wholesome
  bringing up. His playmates from childhood, Paul and Natalie Kail and
  Molly Brene look up to Darly as Jack himself does. Paul and Molly
  marry early but Natalie, who loves Jack, and Darly, his mother, suffer
  together the pain of seeing him marry a shallow, flippant little
  parasite who is destined to make marriage a mockery. It seems for a
  time that the mother’s life of sacrifice has been in vain; but it has
  not, and not only Jack, but the others as well, find, even after her
  death, that their destinies are shaped by her ideals.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:25 O ‘17

  “We follow the separate destinies with an interest which does not wane
  through a long story.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 300w

  “It is a rather futile and exhausted subject, handled in a manner that
  is skilful, though lamentably typical of modern magazine fiction.”

     – + =Dial= 64:78 Ja 17 ‘18 60w

       + =Ind= 91:188 Ag 4 ‘17 70w

  “Though the novel is much too long, it holds the reader’s interest
  fairly well. The people are real with a possible exception of the
  somewhat too remarkable and admirable Darly.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:222 Je 10 ‘17 430w

  “The characters move without artificial stimulus. This is particularly
  true in the cases of the actress-mother and the son’s parasitic wife.
  The dialog is spontaneous.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 500w


=BARTON, BRUCE.= More power to you. *$1 (2½c) Century 170 17-23552

  Fifty editorials from Every Week which are really sermonettes. They
  are tiny doses of American idealism offered to business men who are in
  danger of sacrificing home life, friends, books, even dreams on the
  altar of business success. The writer shows that many a man has, as a
  by-product of his building, strengthened the character and lifted the
  ideals of hundreds of his associates, and helped in the regeneration
  of entire communities. There is some good advice concerning how to
  achieve that by-product.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:38 N ‘17

  “Mr Barton has the honest American respect for material ‘progress’ and
  business ‘success.’ But he is not sentimental on the one hand or
  materialistic on the other. ... ‘More power to you’ is a stimulating,
  vigorous, wholesome little book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:347 S 16 ‘17 400w

         =St Louis= 15:386 N ‘17 20w

  “It is a little book that bids us stop for a moment and examine our
  rushing world. It is a book of simple aphorisms phrased so cleverly
  that the advice is often concealed for the moment by the sugar
  coating.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 160w


=BARTON, GEORGE AARON.= Religions of the world. (Handbooks of ethics and
religion) *$1.50 Univ. of Chicago press 209 17-20653

  The author is professor of biblical literature and Semitic languages
  in Bryn Mawr college, Pennsylvania. The book “opens with an outline of
  primitive religions, and then, having stated the main elements of
  religion in Babylon and Egypt, goes on to deal with the religion of
  the ancient Hebrews, Judaism, and Mahommedanism. The next section of
  the book is concerned with Zoroastrianism, from which it passes to the
  religions of India, China, and Japan. Chapters on the religions of
  Greece and Rome follow, and the book closes with a section on
  Christianity.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) “At the close of each
  chapter supplementary readings are given. These are divided into two
  classes, one for extended work, and one for those who have but a
  limited time to give to the subject. At the end of the volume there
  are lists of books on special subjects for the teacher, topics for
  study, and an ‘outline of a book to be written by the student.’ There
  is a good index.” (Boston Transcript)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:148 F ‘18

  “The volume is meant to be a textbook, and as such it is admirable.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 15 ‘17 480w

  “His work is colored throughout by the conviction of the Protestants
  that man is saved by faith alone; his book is little more than a
  summary of the views which various peoples have entertained in regard
  to God, the soul, immortality, and so on.”

       — =Dial= 64:74 Ja 17 ‘18 850w

         =Ind= 91:293 Ag 25 ‘17 90w

  “An admirable text-book for the study of comparative religions.
  Without being controversial it is animated throughout by the
  characteristic spirit which recognizes that pagan religions are the
  product of the soul’s quest after God.”

       + =Outlook= 117:309 O 24 ‘17 60w

  “A terse, well-written text-book packed with the facts concerning the
  great religions of the world.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:329 S ‘17 80w

  “Valuable to all who want a concise and accurate survey of the ideals
  and growths of the religious systems of the world. ... The book fills
  a real need in the popular religious literature of the day.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 17 ‘17 300w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p408 Ag 23 ‘17 180w


=BARTON, GEORGE EDWARD.= Re-education. *$1 (7c) Houghton 362 17-31277

  A fearless analysis of the institutional system of the United States
  by a business man and for business men. The writer believes that there
  are some fundamental weaknesses or fallacies in our present system of
  dealing with education, sin, insanity and disease. He bases objections
  to the existing institutional system on the failure to do more than
  prevent, during the period of incarceration, the act of which the
  prisoner or patient has been guilty. He would build up a system of
  re-education which would make producers of inmates of institutions
  with an increase of efficiency. The thought underlying the inquiry and
  arraignment emanates from the best social theory of the day.


=BASHFORD, HENRY HOWARTH.= Songs out of school. (New poetry ser.) *75c
Houghton 821

  There is a note of quiet happiness in this small book of poems. Even
  “The vision of spring, 1916,” the one piece in the book that touches
  on the world tragedy, speaks with the voice of hope. Other poems are,
  The high road, Little April, Litany in spring, Lullabies at Bethlehem,
  Cradle songs, River songs.

  “A small collection of verses, most of which appeared in the
  Spectator, the Nation, the Outlook, and Country Life.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:389 Je ‘17

       + =Ath= p478 O ‘16 30w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 21 ‘17 140w

  “There are serious and elegant poems which comport themselves
  becomingly, but the zest of the book lies in the pattering and
  twittering verses which in five or six instances overleap that elusive
  but difficult barrier that divides mere attractiveness from authentic
  charm.” O. W. Firkins

       + =Nation= 104:710 Je 14 ‘17 180w

  “The difference between a minor and a sub-minor poet is something to
  be felt rather than explained, yet there is a definite line
  between. ... Mr Jeffers is a conventional minor poet; Mr Arensberg is
  an unconventional one; we catch, out of the corner of our eye, a glint
  of wings, spite of the manifest failures of each. Mr Bashford, on the
  other hand, without a failure to his credit, is distinctly a
  sub-minor. ... The trouble with his verses is that they lack something
  vital, a distinctiveness, a tang, the scent of personality.”

         =N Y Times= 22:257 Jl 8 ‘17 180w

       + =Outlook= 115:116 Ja 17 ‘17 180w


=BASSETT, JOHN SPENCER.= Middle group of American historians. *$2 (2½c)
Macmillan 928 17-2031

  The “middle period” of which the author writes is not exactly defined.
  Its beginning is placed at some time following the close of the War of
  1812, its ending at the time when the scientific spirit gained
  dominance over the patriotic school of historical writing. 1884, the
  year of the founding of the American historical association, is
  suggested as the closing date of the period. The author’s purpose is
  to treat of the men who were writing history during this time, Jared
  Sparks, George Bancroft, Prescott, Motley, and Peter Force. There is
  an introductory chapter on Early progress of history in the United
  States, and a concluding chapter on The historians and their
  publishers.

  “His chapters on Sparks and Bancroft make the largest contribution of
  fresh material, for many unpublished passages are drawn from the
  Sparks manuscripts in the Harvard college library, and still more from
  the Bancroft manuscripts in the keeping of the Massachusetts
  historical society.” M. A. DeW. Howe

       + =Am Hist R= 22:879 Jl ‘17 650w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:304 Ap ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 F 24 ‘17 120w

  “A distinguishing characteristic of the work is that it has to do with
  historians rather than with history: the author is far more interested
  in the men themselves and in their activities than he is in the books
  they wrote. ... The book is itself a piece of careful research rather
  than a contribution to historical criticism or the history of ideas;
  and taken for what it is, it will be found, by professional historians
  at least, and one would think by a rather wide reading public as well,
  a very useful book and an extremely interesting one.” Carl Becker

       + =Dial= 62:301 Ap 5 ‘17 1800w

         =Eng Hist R= 32:460 Jl ‘17 70w

       + =Lit D= 54:2000 Je 30 ‘17 430w

  “The book is eminently readable and is valuable for its appreciation,
  sympathetic and yet critical, of the men who made this middle period a
  golden age of historical writing in the United States.”

       + =Nation= 104:631 My 24 ‘17 900w

       + =N Y Times= 22:143 Ap 15 ‘17 450w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:209 Mr ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:119 Ap ‘17 50w

       + =Spec= 118:417 Ap 7 ‘17 130w

  “Offered as the understudy of a more elaborate work which the author
  hopes to produce if the future favors.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 720w


=BASSETT, LEE EMERSON.= Handbook of oral reading. *$1.60 Houghton 808.5
17-2347

  “This book is the outgrowth of several years of classroom instruction
  and practice based on the theory that effective oral expression is the
  result of clear thinking.” (Preface) The first of the three parts into
  which the book is divided is devoted to the problem of thought-getting
  and to the modulations of the voice that serve to make meaning clear
  to others. Part 2 is devoted to the problem of the imaginative and
  emotional response to thought. The technical problems of tone
  production are treated in part 3. The book is well supplied with
  illustrative material. The author is associate professor of English at
  Leland Stanford Junior university.

  “Sensible ideas, well expressed. Everts’ ‘The speaking voice’ (A L A
  Catalog 1904-1911) will be sufficient in the average library.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:389 Je ‘17

         =Cleveland= p122 N ‘17 50w

  “Good selections, a clear statement of principles, and a full outline
  for teachers.”

       + =Ind= 91:234 Ag 11 ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:183 Je ‘17 10w

  “The high-school teacher of public speaking will be interested in this
  book, which sets forth very forcibly the principles of natural oral
  expression. ... The book might be more attractive to the high-school
  student if more of the selections were from contemporary literature.”
  E. F. Geyer and R. L. Lyman

     + — =School R= 25:608 O ‘17 100w

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 25 ‘17 150w


=BASSETT, SARA WARE.= Story of sugar. il *75c (2½c) Penn 17-16751

  Uniform with the stories of cotton, gold and silver, lumber, wool,
  iron, leather and glass. It is written for boys and girls from seven
  to twelve and has a thread of plot upon which hang bits of true
  information about the history and manufacture of sugar. A real
  sugaring-off in the maple woods, a visit to a sugar refinery, and
  another to a candy factory are narrated with emphasis on the processes
  that children can readily grasp. The sport and adventure intermingled
  are wholesome, the sort that live boys and girls have a big appetite
  for.

       + =Outlook= 117:574 D 5 ‘17 60w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 100w


=BASSETT, SARA WARE.= Wayfarers at the Angel’s. *$1.25 (3½c) Doran
17-28601

  This is another Cape Cod story by the author of “The taming of Zenas
  Henry.” A wooden angel, long ago a ship’s figurehead, guards the door
  of the “straggling house on the bluff, half buried in vines and
  flowers,” which is the home of three bachelors; John Bartlett, retired
  captain of the life-saving station; Timothy Talbot, with his Civil war
  relics and his seven pairs of shoes, which he wears in unvarying
  rotation, and David Furber, the happy-go-lucky sailor lad whom the
  life-savers have rescued from a foundering barque, and who after being
  wrecked twelve times, has now elected to stay ashore. Into this
  household comes Ann, who is “better’n a trained nurse, she’s a born
  one,” to nurse David through a fever, and life becomes a different
  thing to all three men. It also changes greatly for Ann, whom one of
  the three persuades to stay with him always as “angel of the grey
  house—a sight better one than that wooden image over the door.”

  “The little tale is slight, but rather pleasant. There are some
  amusing bits, and only one disagreeable character in the book, all the
  rest being virtuous to a degree.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:442 O 28 ‘17 150w

  “Sara Ware Bassett writes another buoyant ‘Cape’ story which nowise
  infringes upon the rights and prerogatives of Mr Lincoln.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 23 ‘17 290w


=BASSETT, WILBUR.=[2] Wander-ships; folk-stories of the sea, with notes
upon their origin. *$1.50 Open ct. 398.2 17-27992

  “The book under the above title—‘Wander-ships’—is a small collection
  of some of the stories about wonderful and strange ships that have
  been reported as sailing the seas, from and to no port or haven. ...
  To further emphasize the stories, for the benefit of the student of
  such literature, copious notes on the various tales are appended. ...
  The volume is something of an encyclopædia on the subject of ghostly
  craft and vessels, the origin and voyages of which are lost in the
  shades of earliest tradition.”—Boston Transcript

  “The several tales are interesting, whether the reader is or is not
  familiar with such ‘yarns,’ and the volume is a distinct contribution
  to the literature of the sea.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 5 ‘18 280w

  “The work is a very unusual one, but will be a source of delight to
  those who love to dig down into fundamentals, for even if the
  superstitions of past ages are taken as the subject, the work is in
  itself essentially a scientific one.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 D 29 ‘17 800w

         =Outlook= 118:31 Ja 2 ‘18 70w


=BATCHELDER, ROGER.= Watching and waiting on the border. il *$1.25 (3c)
Houghton 355.7 17-13927

  The author writes of his experience on the Mexican border with one of
  the Massachusetts regiments of the National guard. His first purpose
  is to answer the many questions asked him since his return: “Was it
  hot down there?” “What are the Mexicans like?” and so on. His second
  is “to show, by narrating the story of the mobilization and the
  subsequent service of the National guard, how pitifully incompetent
  and unprepared it was and is, to form the reserve military force of
  the United States.” The book has an introduction by E. Alexander
  Powell.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:17 O ‘17

         =Cleveland= p116 S ‘17 40w

  “While Private Batchelder is frankly outspoken in discussing these
  questions, he writes with the good sense and judgment born of
  experience. As a record of personal service in what may fairly be
  termed a hard country physically, his book is well worth reading by
  every recruit as a helpful guide to his duty and conduct.”

       + =Ind= 91:108 Jl 21 ‘17 300w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:102 Jl ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:684 O ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p45 O ‘17 40w

  “To those interested in military life with just a dash of adventure
  thrown in there is an especial appeal in ‘Watching and waiting on the
  border.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 130w


=BAYLEY, WILLIAM SHIRLEY.=[2] Descriptive mineralogy. il *$3.50 Appleton
549 17-21365

  This work, prepared as a textbook for students, is designed to give “a
  comprehensive view of modern mineralogy rather than a detailed
  knowledge of many minerals.” The author says, “It does not pretend to
  furnish a complete discussion of the mineral kingdom, nor a means of
  determining the nature of any mineral that may be met with. The
  chapters devoted to the process of determinative mineralogy are brief,
  and the familiar ‘key to the determination of species’ is omitted. In
  place of the latter is a simple guide to the descriptions of minerals
  to be found in the body of the text.” The three parts of the book are
  devoted to: General chemical mineralogy; Descriptive mineralogy, and
  Determinative mineralogy. Lists of minerals are given in appendixes;
  also a list of references. Hintze’s “Handbuch der mineralogie” has
  been drawn on for matter in the text, and “Mineral resources of the
  United States” has been used as a basis for the statistics. The author
  is professor of geology in the University of Illinois.

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:814 D ‘17 80w


=BAYLISS, WILLIAM MADDOCK.= Physiology of food and economy in diet. *65c
Longmans 613.2 Agr17-520

  “‘The physiology of food and economy in diet’ is a rather academic
  manual which has arisen, Professor Bayliss tells us, from a course of
  lectures given at University college, London, in November, 1916. ...
  After a brief résumé of the problem as a whole, Professor Bayliss
  studies the uses of food, the classes of foodstuffs, the question of
  quantity, accessory factors, digestibility, alcohol, vegetarianism,
  exercise, the value of cooking, characteristics of certain articles of
  diet, and possibilities of economy. As a general summary of his
  directions, he concludes with the aphorism, ‘Take care of the calories
  and the protein will take care of itself.’”—N Y Times

  “The American reader will perhaps turn with especial interest to the
  study of the work of the Commission for relief in Belgium as an
  example of good food ministration and control.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:395 O 14 ‘17 150w

         =Pratt= p19 O ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:327 S ‘17 10w

  “In a hundred pages he presents in clear, concise and fascinating
  language the fundamental principles of nutrition. Bayliss, though
  noted for his work on the secretory glands and not recognized as an
  expert on nutrition, has nevertheless written with the appreciative
  touch characteristic of the master mind.” Graham Lusk

       + =Science= n s 46:18 Jl 6 ‘17 50w

       + =Spec= 118:520 My 5 ‘17 180w


Bayonet training manual used by the British forces. (Van Nostrand’s
military manuals) il *30c Van Nostrand 355

  This pocket manual is a reprint of material which appeared in the
  Infantry Journal for May, 1917. The copyright is held by the United
  States Infantry association. The preface states that the instructions
  are from the latest British training manual (1916), and that they are
  based on experience in accordance with which the forces are now being
  trained.


=BEACH, HARLAN PAGE.= Renaissant Latin America. il $1 (2c) Missionary
educ. movement 266 16-22287

  “An outline and interpretation of the Congress on Christian work in
  Latin America, held at Panama, February 10-19, 1916.” The author has
  prepared a condensed account of the congress, quoting as largely as
  was consistent with his purpose from speeches and reports. Contents:
  The story of the Congress; Re-discovering Latin America;
  Interpretation, message, method; Latin Americans and education; Leaves
  for the healing of nations; The upbuilding of womanhood; The Latin
  evangelical churches; The home fulcrum; Unity’s fraternal program;
  Congressional addresses; Aftermath and estimates.

  “The volume is interesting from beginning to end and for the busy
  reader meets an urgent need.” J. W. M.

       + =Am J Theol= 21:480 Jl ‘17 90w

  “Much suggestive and stirring material is contained in this condensed
  review of Christian work.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 3 ‘17 300w

  “The exchange of ideas was noteworthy as delegates were present from
  nearly all over the world, and from these workers Dr Beach has
  collected a most interesting fund of facts.”

       + =Ind= 90:257 My 5 ‘17 60w

  “While the enthusiasm of the author for the South Americans carries
  him perhaps a little too far, yet the book is well worth reading.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 140w


=BEACH, REX ELLINGWOOD.= Laughing Bill Hyde, and other stories. il
*$1.35 (1c) Harper 17-30123

  The title story is a tale of Alaska, so is the one following, “The
  north wind’s malice.” Among the others, several are stories of
  business, one is a newspaper story. Some of the titles are: His stock
  in trade; With bridges burned; With interest to date; The cub
  reporter; Out of the night; The real and the make-believe; Running
  Elk; The moon, the maid, and the winged shoes; Flesh. The book is
  printed without table of contents.

  “He excels in one kind of fiction which is purely American: the
  business story.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 22 ‘17 300w

  “There is nothing particularly original or striking in any of these
  tales, but many of them will no doubt furnish amusement for an idle
  hour. They are written in Mr Beach’s well-known and rather agreeable
  style.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:516 D 2 ‘17 800w


=BEALS, MRS KATHARINE (MCMILLAN).= Flower lore and legend. *$1.25 Holt
716.2 17-23777

  The author has brought together a store of miscellaneous
  information—myth, legend, and fancy, with quotations from
  poetry,—connected with thirty-five of our common flowers. Chapters are
  given to the snowdrop, arbutus, crocus, narcissus, dandelion, violet,
  pansy, mignonette, buttercup, etc.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:75 D ‘17


=BEAN, C. E. W.= Letters from France. il *5s Cassell & co., London
940.91

  “Mr Bean, war correspondent for the Commonwealth of Australia, has not
  attempted to narrate the full story of the Australian imperial force,
  but gives graphic accounts of the first impressions of some of the
  Australians in France, of their life in the trenches and in billets,
  of the share of the Australians in the Somme advance and in the
  fighting at Pozières, and of their bravery at Mouquet Farm.”—Ath

         =Ath= p420 Ag ‘17 110w

  “The simple, easy style of these letters shows us clearly what the
  Australians have done in France.”

       + =Sat R= 123:552 Je 16 ‘17 1050w

  “It is a wonderful story, and it is told with great spirit. Mr Bean
  warns his readers that the Australian troops hate to be called
  ‘Anzacs,’ just as they hate being called ‘Colonials.’”

       + =Spec= 118:675 Je 16 ‘17 120w


=BEARD, FREDERICA=, comp. Prayers for use in home, school and Sunday
school. *60c Doran 248 17-24844

  The author has assembled a number of prayers for children and young
  people. In those for little people she appeals to the child’s natural
  love of rhythm and repetition. Those for older boys and girls are
  drawn from many sources and are characterized by a spirit of
  reverence. They are arranged in four groups: Prayers for little
  children; Prayers for boys and girls; Prayers for young people; For
  use on special occasions.

  “A beautiful collection.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:73 D ‘17

  “Tho not many are adapted to use in public schools, in private
  schools, in the home and Sunday school, they would provide splendid
  suggestive training.”

       + =Ind= 91:354 S 1 ‘17 60w

         =Ind= 92:449 D 1 ‘17 30w


=BEAUFORT, J. M. DE.= Behind the German veil; a record of a journalistic
war pilgrimage. il *$2 (2c) Dodd 940.91 17-14977

  Before going to Germany in 1914 as the representative of a London
  newspaper, the author had spent three years in journalistic work in
  New York, and he acknowledges a debt of gratitude to his American
  training. He is a Hollander by birth and parentage and as a boy was
  sent to school in Germany. His sympathies, even before starting on his
  mission to Germany, were strongly pro-Ally. He says, “I started on my
  mission and entered Germany with as far as possible an open mind. I
  could not honestly say at that time that I hated the Germans; I merely
  had no use for them.” All his experiences within the German empire
  intensified his feeling. The book consists of four parts: General
  impressions; My trip to the eastern front and visit to Hindenburg; An
  incognito visit to the fleet and Germany’s naval harbours; Interviews.

  “He relates his experiences and impressions in journalistic and
  entertaining fashion.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:17 O ‘17

  “The style in which the book is written is not attractive, but the
  matter is undeniably of interest.”

     + — =Ath= p204 Ap ‘17 170w

  “The material is interesting but the writer dilates rather too freely
  on his own shrewdness and ‘nerve.’”

     + — =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 60w

  “If there is anything ‘Behind the German veil’ which is particularly
  worth disclosing, it has not been revealed by J. M. de Beaufort.”

       — =Nation= 106:70 Ja 17 ‘18 160w

  “Offers some of the most interesting firsthand accounts that have come
  out of Germany. ... Mr de Beaufort writes vivaciously, although
  somewhat garrulously, and his book is full of interesting matter of
  much importance for Americans if they would understand the German
  spirit. He was in Europe as the correspondent of the London Daily
  Telegraph.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:215 Je 3 ‘17 600w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:680 O ‘17 20w

       + =R of Rs= 56:107 Jl ‘17 90w


=BEAVERBROOK, WILLIAM MAXWELL AITKEN, 1st baron.= Canada in Flanders.
maps *1s 3d Hodder & Stoughton, London 940.91

  The second volume of the official story of the Canadian expeditionary
  force covers the period between September, 1915, and July, 1916. For
  an account of the first volume consult the Digest annual, 1916, under
  Aitken, Sir William Maxwell—the name of Lord Beaverbrook before he was
  raised to the peerage.

  “The descriptions of the dash and vigour of the Canadian troops are
  graphic and inspiring.”

       + =Ath= p258 My ‘17 70w

         =St Louis= 15:417 D ‘17 20w

  “Lord Beaverbrook’s second volume concerning the Canadians, which is
  written by him as the Canadian ‘Eyewitness,’ contains a most readable
  and workmanlike account of the long and bitter struggles first at St
  Eloi and then at Hooge, in the Ypres Salient, which ended a fortnight
  before the battle of the Somme began.”

       + =Spec= 118:675 Je 16 ‘17 120w

  “It is difficult to conceive of anything more likely to stimulate zeal
  and efficiency than volumes of this kind. The general public cannot
  master an official dispatch, so long after the event, without
  considerable explanatory notes and plans. The whole scheme of the
  volumes at present issued is to present a coherent account of an
  action as a whole, and at the same time to signalize individual acts
  of gallantry.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p110 Mr 8 ‘17 600w


=BECHHOFER, C. E.=, ed. Russian anthology in English. *$1.50 Dutton
891.7 A17-1637

  “Translated extracts in verse and prose from twenty-five authors (of
  whom only one, Volynsky, is new to English readers), with some ballads
  and folk songs.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

         =A L A Bkl= 14:119 Ja ‘18

  “This collection of extracts from Russian verse, drama, and prose is
  too fragmentary to be satisfying. In some of the examples, such as the
  excerpt from ‘The idiot’ by Dostoevsky, the absence of context makes
  for obscurity and a sense of incompleteness. Other examples are
  enjoyable, such as Gogol’s idyllic ‘Old-world gentle-folk,’ ‘The death
  of Ivan’ by Alexis Tolstoy, Pushkin’s poem ‘The three sisters,’ Leo
  Tolstoy’s thoughtful criticism of Maupassant, and the slyly humorous
  sketch by Chekhov, ‘A work of art.’ Many prominent modern Russian
  authors are represented, though we miss the names of Gorky,
  Grigorovitch, Artsibashev, and Sologub.”

     + — =Ath= p360 Jl ‘17 100w

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 N 3 ‘17 230w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p214 My 5 ‘17 20w


=BECKLEY, ZOË, and GOLLOMB, JOSEPH=, comps. Songs for courage. *$1 Barse
& Hopkins 821.08 17-15993

  Courage is one of “the subjects made prominent by the war” to which
  librarians are officially advised to give special attention in book
  selection. In this collection of over 100 titles we find the old
  favorites, such as Henley’s “Invictus,” Sill’s “Opportunity,” Matthew
  Arnold’s “Self-dependence,” together with the work of more recent
  writers.

         =Cleveland= p121 N ‘17 50w

  “Many old favorites are here. ... There are also many unworthy verses.
  The inferior verse far outranks the worthy. And it is surprising to
  note how many of the poems of revolutionary courage are missing.”
  Clement Wood

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Je 24 ‘17 120w


=BEECROFT, WILLEY INGRAHAM=, comp. Who’s who among the wild flowers and
ferns. new and combined ed il *$1.50 Moffat 582 A17-406

  “The outstanding feature of the work and the one which commends it to
  the ordinary student, is that a person need not be a botanist to use
  Mr Beecroft’s guide.” (Springf’d Republican) “The flowers are
  classified by colors, as in most volumes of the kind, and under, the
  name of each flower ample description is detailed for identification.
  There are blank pages for notes.” (Boston Transcript)

         =A L A Bkl= 13:361 My ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p13 Ap 7 ‘17 150w

  “The inclusiveness of ‘Who’s who among the wild flowers and ferns’
  will rightly make it a popular guide.”

       + =Ind= 91:109 Jl 21 ‘17 40w

  “While scientific and accurate, it is entirely untechnical.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ag 29 ‘17 130w


=BEER, GEORGE LOUIS.= English-speaking peoples; their future relations
and joint international obligations. 2d ed *$1.50 (2c) Macmillan 327.73
17-17291

  Mr Beer was formerly lecturer in European history at Columbia
  university, and is the author of “The old colonial system, 1660-1754,”
  etc. He recalls in his preface Admiral Mahan’s essay of 1894 entitled
  “Possibilities of an Anglo-American re-union,” and goes on to say:
  “What in 1894 was unripe and academic, has today become urgent and
  practical.” A series of notes is appended which furnish a running
  bibliography to easily accessible and non-technical literature. Some
  of the material in the book appeared originally in the Political
  Quarterly, New Republic, and elsewhere.

       + =Am Econ R= 7:840 D ‘17 60w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:112 Ja ‘18

         =Ath= p463 S ‘17 60w

  “Valuable as the author’s opinions are, it is no discourtesy to him to
  say that the facts, figures, and references appended to the book in
  some forty pages of ‘Notes’ are in some respects even more valuable;
  for facts on these contentious subjects are often ignored and
  sometimes very difficult to get at, and Mr Beer has a genius for
  relevant documentation.”

       + =Ath= p505 O ‘17 1600w

         =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 60w

  “Mr Beer’s argument is logical and forceful. He has scrupulous regard
  for the facts of history and economics; his views are the outcome of a
  lifetime of study of British imperial and colonial affairs and of
  international politics. Many, perhaps most, of his readers will shrink
  from his conclusions. But no one will be justified in withholding from
  this book the tribute of candid and thoughtful consideration.” F: A.
  Ogg

       + =Dial= 63:520 N 22 ‘17 1100w

         =Ind= 92:60 O 6 ‘17 70w

  Reviewed by Sinclair Kennedy

         =J Pol Econ= 26:101 Ja ‘18 470w

  “The valuable references and notes are sure to be of immediate help to
  every thoughtful reader interested in this absorbing and timely
  question.”

       + =Lit D= 55:45 O 13 ‘17 300w

  “The volume is easily one of the most weighty pieces of writing about
  the war that has yet appeared in this country, and should be widely
  read.”

       + =Nation= 105:322 S 20 ‘17 560w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:133 S ‘17 30w

  “A factor of the first importance in the molding of public opinion in
  this country. ... In three remarkably thoughtful concluding chapters
  Mr Beer discusses the predominant factors in the unity of
  English-speaking peoples, the economic possibilities in co-operation,
  and the community of Anglo-American policy toward China and Latin
  America. The chapter on the growing economic interdependence of the
  world is, in particular, closely reasoned.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:356 S 23 ‘17 1200w

  “Without necessarily giving full credence to ideas that are indeed but
  tentatively advanced, one may affirm that ‘The English-speaking
  peoples’ is a statesmanlike book. In its grasp of the ends to be
  wished for, in its perception of present realities, and in the caution
  of its conclusions, Mr Beer’s book differs essentially and completely
  both from those forecasts of the future which are more or less frankly
  utopian and from the desperately opportunistic proposals which the
  present world-crisis has called forth from certain would-be practical
  idealists. Although his style is of the plainest (in both senses of
  the word), the author possesses an unusual power of extracting
  fundamental truths from a great mass of conflicting facts. ... The
  book will prove valuable for its broad and illuminating criticisms of
  such general ideas as that of nationality, and of such programmes or
  proposals as pan-Americanism and the League to enforce peace.”

     + + =No Am= 206:478 S ‘17 950w

         =Outlook= 117:64 S 12 ‘17 150w

  “He states his arguments cogently, but without heat, and fortifies
  every position he takes up with a full reference to facts and
  authorities. We regret only that in the effort to be at once condensed
  and accurate he has allowed his style to become, at times, so abstruse
  and technical as to prevent his volume from appealing to the widest
  possible public.”

     + — =Spec= 119:sup472 N 3 ‘17 800w

  “We are bound to demur to his too facile assumption of the abandonment
  of free trade by Great Britain.” R: Roberts

         =Survey= 38:549 S 22 ‘17 650w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p395 Ag 16 ‘17 50w

  “It is one of the best, most original, and judicious attempts to
  construct out of the political anarchy of these times new
  organizations. ... Mr Beer modestly describes his book as a livre de
  circonstance dealing with an unpredictable future. It is in reality a
  valuable addition to political science. ... This book, with its
  earnest appeal for support to a permanent, loosely knit association
  between Great Britain and the United States, is to be welcomed by
  every one who has at heart the ideals which these two countries
  represent.”

     + + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p422 S 6 ‘17 620w

  “The book is the work of a scholar, and it is, as scholars say,
  thoroughly documented. But it is not primarily addressed to scholars,
  and it is not a dry-as-dust performance. It is addressed to thinking
  people who are ready to consider seriously and with care the duty of
  the nation in this great crisis, and it abounds with fresh suggestions
  and arguments which are bound to excite interest and open new channels
  of thought.” G. B. Adams

       + =Yale R= n s 7:416 Ja ‘18 1200w


=BEERS, HENRY AUGUSTIN.= Two twilights. *$1 Badger, R: G. 811 17-25112

  “This volume includes selections from two early books of verse, long
  out of print; a few pieces from ‘The Ways of Yale’; and a handful of
  poems contributed of late years to the magazines and not heretofore
  collected.” (Preface) The author has been professor of English
  literature in Yale university since 1880.


=BEITH, JOHN HAY (IAN HAY, pseud.).= All in it; “K (1)” carries on.
*$1.50 (2½c) Houghton 940.91 17-29361

  This is the continuation of “The first hundred thousand,” promised us
  by Captain Beith. “‘The first hundred thousand’ closed with the battle
  of Loos. The present narrative follows certain friends of ours from
  the scene of that costly but valuable experience, through a winter
  campaign in the neighbourhood of Ypres and Ploegsteert, to profitable
  participation in the battle of the Somme.” (Author’s note) Captain
  (now major) Wagstaffe and Private (now corporal) Mucklewame reappear
  in this volume.

  “Told with the same humorous turns and descriptions that made the
  first book so readable.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:88 D ‘17

  “Bit by bit Major Beith pieces together the tale of the fighter in the
  present war. He does not minimize its horrors, but he does not
  over-emphasize them. Through his entire story runs an undercurrent of
  optimism.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 7 ‘17 1500w

         =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 60w

         =Ind= 93:128 Ja 19 ‘18 50w

  “Ian Hay’s own narrative is full of the brightest humor, not untouched
  with an equally bright cynicism. ... And yet it would be a grave
  mistake to assume that because he writes brightly, and often
  humorously, Major Beith’s is a ‘light’ book. It is far from that. ...
  In ‘All in it’ the heroism is present always. The terrible things are
  not glossed over.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:462 N 11 ‘17 750w

       + =Outlook= 117:520 N 28 ‘17 100w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p11 Ja 27 ‘18 580w


=BEITH, JOHN HAY (IAN HAY, pseud.).= Getting together. *50c (6½c)
Doubleday; Houghton 940.91 17-6208

  In this little book, Captain Beith, who has been lecturing in the
  United States, attempts to bring Briton and American to an
  understanding of one another. He answers some of the questions that
  have been put to him: How about that blockade? What are you opening
  our mails for? Would you welcome American intervention? etc.

  “Appeared in the Outlook, F 7 ‘17.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:345 My ‘17

       + =Cath World= 105:843 S ‘17 180w

       + =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 50w

  “A sincere and fine-spirited effort to explain misunderstandings
  between the citizens of Britain and the United States.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:45 F 11 ‘17 800w

  Reviewed by Joseph Mosher

         =Pub W= 91:593 F 17 ‘17 350w

  “His brief account of the voluntary help rendered by America to the
  Allies before she came into the war will surprise many people. ... His
  manly and sensible little book should do good.”

       + =Spec= 118:678 Je 16 ‘17 140w

  “Ian Hay’s little essay in Anglo-American propagandism will not
  increase his literary reputation. ... There is no need of a
  presentation of the case of the Allies to intelligent Americans, and
  this book is not so conceived as to win over old-fashioned Yankees who
  entertain animosity toward Great Britain. The softness of the language
  defeats its own purpose.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Mr 4 ‘17 400w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p203 Ap 26 ‘17 220w


=BEITH, JOHN HAY (IAN HAY, pseud.).= Oppressed English. *50c (6½c)
Doubleday 941.5 17-18156

  The author of “The first hundred thousand” and “Getting together,” a
  Scotsman, has some witty and practical things to say on the world
  attitude toward the “English” as distinct from the “British” people.
  He writes: “In the war of to-day, for instance, whenever anything
  particularly unpleasant or unpopular has to be done—such as holding up
  neutral mails, or establishing a blacklist of neutral firms trading
  with the enemy—upon whom does the odium fall? Upon ‘England’; never
  upon France, and only occasionally upon Great Britain. ... On the
  other hand, ... a victory gained by English boys from Devon or
  Yorkshire appears as a British victory, pure and simple.” The fourth
  and fifth chapters make clear some of the answers to: “Why can’t you
  people settle the Irish question?”—the claims of the Nationalists, the
  Unionists, and of the Sinn Fein being put side by side for study by
  outsiders.

  “Good-natured, humorous, but very lucid explanation of the Irish
  question.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:18 O ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 70w

  “As is apt to be the case with a book of this kind, Mr Hay’s desire to
  make his humorous periods leads him sometimes to sacrifice the exact
  truth. He exaggerates the idiosyncrasies of the Englishman to make his
  satire carry over. Once you have forgiven that, however, you find the
  little book pleasant reading.”

     + — =Dial= 63:461 N 8 ‘17 190w

  “The Irish rebellion was not made in Germany. It was made in England,
  and not a little part of it was made by just such dunderheads as
  Captain Beith, with their inaccurate talk of beneficences that were
  never really conferred and freedom that never existed.” F. H.

       — =New Repub= 13:188 D 15 ‘17 1400w

  “As a specimen of dry Scotch humor carrying with it a large volume of
  matter for serious consideration, Mr Hay’s little book is unrivalled
  in its way, though it is, perhaps, not exactly the ‘sense of humour’
  that is likely to appeal to ardent Irish patriots. ... The book
  contains much matter of considerable interest to Americans, for the
  author has much more than an ordinary grasp of the psychology of the
  peoples he deals with in this little volume.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 Jl 15 ‘17 650w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:674 O ‘17 70w

         =Pratt= p46 O ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:379 O ‘17 10w

  “An amusing comment on British characteristics.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 O 4 ‘17 300w


=BEITH, JOHN HAY (IAN HAY, pseud.).= “Pip”; a romance of youth. *$1.50
(2c) Houghton 17-9709

  A happy story of irresponsible youth. Half the book is taken up with
  the schoolday adventures of the young hero. Pip is a valiant cricketer
  and when he leaves school he becomes something of a nation-wide
  figure. The death of his father sends him into the world to earn his
  living. He does so for a time as a chauffeur. There is a girl in the
  story, of course. Pip met her first as a friend of his sister’s, when
  she was sixteen. She is older and so is he when the book closes,
  ending with a golf match that decides an important matter for Pip.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:354 My ‘17

  “Up to the outbreak of the war Ian Hay was known in this country as
  the author of six books, all of them fiction. ... Prior to these,
  however, he had written another book. Its title is ‘Pip.’ ... Its
  understanding of childhood, youth and early manhood is keen, its
  ability to make the most of the zest of delicate comedy is complete.”
  E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 17 ‘17 1500w

       + =Lit D= 54:1089 Ap 14 ‘17 200w

  “Captain Beith writes with genial humor, and his account of the making
  of Pip into a man, and a man who is a thorough Englishman, is likely
  to bring many a smile to the face of his reader. Having been, in the
  days before the war, a schoolmaster himself he knows much about the
  life of British schools and the character of the men who conduct
  them.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:93 Mr 18 ‘17 500w

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 60w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 22 ‘17 250w

  “As a school story it is inferior to ‘David Blaize,’ and the detailed
  descriptions of cricket contests are beyond the American reader, but
  it is nevertheless a story of decided interest.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:126 Ap ‘17 50w


=BELL, ARCHIE.= Trip to Lotus land. il *$2.50 (4c) Lane 915.2 17-30747

  The author outlines a six-weeks’ itinerary for the tourist to Japan,
  and states that his purpose is to convey to the reader something of
  the joys that such a tour holds for a traveler. He says that the book
  is not a guide book. “Mr Terry’s ‘Japanese empire’ and the excellent
  publications of the Imperial Japanese government railways” supply that
  need, and his pleasant narrative account of his own travels will serve
  to supplement them. Yokohama, Kamakura, Miyanoshita, Tokyo, Nagoya,
  Kyoto, Kobe, Nagasaki and Nikko are among the points visited. There
  are over fifty illustrations.

  Reviewed by A. M. Chase

       + =Bookm= 46:335 N ‘17 40w

  “Both instructive and entertaining.”

       + =Lit D= 56:40 Ja 12 ‘18 170w

       + =N Y Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 100w

  “[Fulfills its purpose] admirably both in text and illustrations.”

       + =Outlook= 117:615 D 12 ‘17 60w

       + =R of Rs= 57:219 F ‘18 50w


=BELL, FREDERICK MCKELVEY.= First Canadians in France; the chronicle of
a military hospital in the war zone. il *$1.35 (2½c) Doran 940.91
17-28775

  Colonel Bell, attached, as medical director, to the first contingent
  of Canadian troops overseas, was detailed to found a Canadian hospital
  near Boulogne. He chronicles the progress of that undertaking among
  the heterogeneous lot of men whom “the hammer of time,” with many a
  nasty knock, welded together. The quality that made Colonel Bell the
  one force that held the boys together is responsible for the grip the
  book gets on the reader. It is a simple recital of every day routine,
  without central theme or plot, told in a realistic, colloquial,
  normal, human fashion with an eye keen to every humorous incident that
  livened camp monotony.

  “The writer confesses to a flavor of romancing in his story, but the
  reader will not feel like criticising this or seeking too closely the
  line between fact and imagination.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 10 ‘17 400w

  “Clever characterization, and many amusing anecdotes.”

       + =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 30w

       + =Ind= 93:128 Ja 19 ‘18 170w

  “Certainly, this excellent book should be read. It is so human.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:448 N 4 ‘17 700w

         =Outlook= 117:387 N 7 ‘17 30w


=BELL, JOHN JOY.= Kiddies. *$1.50 (2½c) Stokes

  A collection of seventeen stories about children by this well known
  Scottish humorist, author of “Wee Macgreegor.” That young hero appears
  in several of the stories. Among the titles are: Habakkuk; Little boy;
  Some advantages of being an aunt; The good fairy; Mr Logie’s heart; An
  early engagement; Silk stocking and suedes; The ugly uncle.

  “The stories are canny and full of dry humor and quaint pathos.”

       + =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 200w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:63 Ap ‘17 50w

  “The humorous tales are, generally speaking, the best, the serious and
  pathetic ones being somewhat conventional and oversentimental.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:500 N 25 ‘17 240w

       + =Outlook= 117:475 N 21 ‘17 20w


=BELL, JOHN JOY.= Till the clock stops. *$1.35 (2c) Duffield 17-5450

  The clock, with its diamond-studded pendulum, stood in a secluded
  house in Scotland. It was guaranteed to go for a year and a day after
  the pendulum was set in motion—that being done on the death of its
  owner Christopher Craig. It was in some way to watch over the green
  box full of diamonds and the other fortune reserved for Christopher’s
  nephew, Alan Craig, supposedly lost in the Arctic. Its enemy was
  Bullard, London member of a South African mining syndicate, who knew
  of the existence of the diamonds and its guardians were a dense green
  liquid with which the case was partly filled, placed over the ominous
  word “Dangerous,” Caw, the faithful servant of the dead man, and
  Marjorie Handyside, the daughter of a doctor and neighbor. How these
  and others played their respective parts, and the surprise in store
  for all when the clock stopped make a thrilling tale. The writer is
  the author of “Wee MacGreegor.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:401 Je ‘17

  “The story is well planned, and full of excitement and suspense up to
  the last chapter.”

       + =Ath= p101 F ‘17 30w

       + =N Y Times= 22:110 Mr 25 ‘17 250w

         =Outlook= 115:668 Ap 11 ‘17 20w

  “A melodrama full of alarms and surprises.”

         =Spec= 118:241 F 24 ‘17 7w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 210w

  “Mr J. J. Bell may have had the cinematograph in mind in writing ‘Till
  the clock stops.’ Hidden diamonds form the mainspring of the story,
  and propel it forward mechanically through its allotted span; and one
  can imagine the pistol shots, explosions, and so forth which arise out
  of the search for them being reduced to a series of highly effective
  pictures.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p44 Ja 25 ‘17 200w


=BELL, JOHN KEBLE (KEBLE HOWARD, pseud.).= Gay life. *$1.30 (2c) Lane
17-6536

  A happy and wholesome story of theatrical life. The author has written
  it to counteract some of the sensational ideas that prevail concerning
  the stage. Jilly Nipchin is an attractive and impudent little Cockney
  who determines to put her twin gifts, mimicry and an agility in
  turning handsprings, to use on the stage. Her family is in need, and
  Jilly chooses this way of helping them. The story follows her progress
  with a traveling company in the provinces, in the music halls, in a
  repertory company, and finally takes her to America. The hero, Ed
  Chauncey, the world’s greatest equilibrist, is as worthy in his way as
  is Jilly.

       + =Ath= p414 Ag ‘17 90w

  “The wholesome story shows a thorough knowledge of the external life
  of the stage, but not very deep understanding of universal human
  nature. The author is a theatrical manager and producer, and the
  editor of the Sketch, a semi-theatrical publication.”

         =Cleveland= p63 My ‘17 70w

  “The thorough knowledge of the stage and of all things stagey which
  the author obviously possesses apparently does not include the
  capacity for understanding the forces that underlie the struggles and
  the successes of its workers. ‘The gay life’ is superficial,
  occasionally clever, and of fleeting value.”

       — =Dial= 62:247 Mr 22 ‘17 110w

       + =Ind= 90:84 Ap 7 ‘17 100w

  “The novel is clever, amusing and graphic in its account of stage
  life, though developed in a somewhat jerky manner. The theme recalls
  certain of Leonard Merrick’s delightful tales, and of course this
  story suffers from the comparison, but it is an entertaining piece of
  work, with an attractive, very human heroine and several interesting
  and well-drawn characters.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:69 F 25 ‘17 350w

  “The book on the whole is pleasant reading.”

       + =Spec= 119:169 Ag 18 ‘17 30w

  “Mr Howard weaves a colorless romance into the narrative, but Jilly’s
  adventures and high spirits hold the attention without outside aid.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 220w

  “It is a jolly tale, an amusing tale, a good-natured tale. There is
  general truth in portions of his book, which the tale as a whole
  lacks.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p334 Jl 12 ‘17 500w


=BELL, JOHN KEBLE (KEBLE HOWARD, pseud.).= Smiths in war time. *$1.40
(2½c) Lane 17-30282

  This story, by the author of “The Smiths of Surbiton,” “The Smiths of
  Valley View,” etc. is written in a lighter vein than most of the
  novels dealing with England in war-time. It tells us how Mr Smith,
  aged seventy-three, and his devoted wife, tried to help their country;
  how they rented their pleasant villa at Surbiton and attempted to live
  in a cottage; how they decided to dismiss Edith, one of the three
  maids who kept them so comfortable; how Mr Smith tried to observe a
  meatless day and fell into temptation; how he tried to drill for home
  service; and how “young George,” the Smith’s idolized grandson, was
  “reported missing” but returned in safety by aeroplane to his anxious
  relatives.

  “The book is written with a thoroughly delightful mixture of humor and
  pathos; if we laugh at Mr Smith, it is very tenderly, and we are all
  the fonder of him for his whimsies and absurdities, just as his wise,
  sweet wife was. They are people we are glad to know, quiet, simple,
  human, ‘ordinary,’ and very lovable people, with something big and
  fine in them underneath it all.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:475 N 18 ‘17 550w

  “A charming story; an epitome of the spirit that is making the
  sacrifices and upholding the nation’s determination that the
  sacrifices shall not be in vain.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 23 ‘17 300w


=BELL, RALPH W.=[2] Canada in war-paint. il *$1.25 Dutton 940.91
17-13337

  “‘Canada in war paint’ is a series of sketches, mostly of the humorous
  type, of the Canadian forces across the water. Its author, Capt. Ralph
  W. Bell, dedicates its pages to the ‘officers, N. C. O.’s and men of
  the 1st Canadian infantry battalion, Ontario regiment,’ of which he is
  a member. He has striven to portray types rather than individuals, or
  as he himself puts it in the preface to give ‘vignettes of things as
  they struck me at the time, and later.’”—Springf’d Republican

  “Among the brightest and most cheerful of the war stories from the men
  at the front is this crisp and relishing offering. Only a small
  portion is devoted to the rough and cruel side.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 150w

  “Captain Bell writes light-heartedly, and makes the best of the
  everyday events of life in the war zone, in the somewhat fragmentary
  jottings which he calls ‘Canada in war paint,’ but there is pathos,
  too, intermingled with the humor of his book.”

       + =Sat R= 123:556 Je 16 ‘17 310w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 28 ‘17 130w


=BELLAMY, FRANCIS R.= Balance. il *$1.35 (1c) Doubleday 17-4706

  The author has told the true story of S. Sydney Tappan, playwright,
  who in the later days of his fame was made the subject of an adulatory
  biography. To the author, the hero is always Sammy Tappan, never S.
  Sydney. He was always Sammy to Carrie Schroeder too. When Sammy went
  to New York to win fame, Carrie remained at home in Melchester, but
  because she was a modern young woman, requiring a purpose in life, she
  went into a settlement. In the settlement Carrie came face to face
  with reality. She learned many things, one of them that men do not
  throw dynamite for the fun of it. From this background she goes to see
  Sammy’s first play, his brilliant, shallow and suggestive “Lady in the
  lion skin.” The shock of this play to her newly awakened social
  conscience and the hopelessly diverging viewpoint which it discloses
  leads to the break between her and Sammy. It is not bridged until
  Sammy, thru suffering and defeat and personal contact with the
  monster, Poverty, learns to see things as she does and to use his
  talent for better ends.

  “Above and beyond the story itself, it is the fine spirit of humanity
  pervading the book that makes it notable. It is free from didacticism
  and sermonizing; it presents no programme, but it is lighted with the
  flame of a great conviction and charged with human sympathy and
  emotion.” J. T. Gerould

       + =Bellman= 22:160 F 10 ‘17 600w

  “The book is full of charm and as a whole rings true.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:95 Mr ‘17 550w

  “If his first novel is any index of those to come, he is an author who
  bids fair to make his mark in American fiction.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 24 ‘17 300w

  “You will rarely find in the writers of this country such poise, and
  justifiable assurance, and true sense of proportion. ... The finest
  thing about this exceptional novel is the masterly way in which the
  author has evolved his characters through the actions and incidents
  rendered inevitable by those characters themselves. It is this
  conviction of truth that remains to exhilarate, long after the story
  has been finished.” Ruth McIntire

       + =Dial= 62:102 F 8 ‘17 1150w

  “The story is logical and true to life.”

       + =Ind= 90:256 My 5 ‘17 190w

       + =Nation= 104:270 Mr 8 ‘17 350w

  “Mr Bellamy has, indeed, a decided gift for character drawing,
  and most of his people are clearly sketched, definitely
  individualized. ... ‘The balance’ is a first novel, and the plot
  is not always well handled.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:24 Ja 21 ‘17 500w

  “Mr Bellamy has something serious to say, and at the same time he
  writes a story which will probably attract a large market.” Joseph
  Mosher

       + =Pub W= 91:207 Ja 20 ‘17 450w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 18 ‘17 500w


=BEMAN, LAMAR TANEY=, comp. Selected articles on prohibition of the
liquor traffic. (Debaters’ handbook ser.) 2d and rev ed *$1.25 (1c)
Wilson, H. W. 178 17-12265

  A second edition of the debaters’ handbook on Prohibition containing
  new material. The first edition was published in 1915, since which
  time prohibition has made great gains. Among the new reprints are
  articles for the affirmative by Arthur Capper and William J. Bryan and
  articles for the negative by John Koren and Rev. J. A. Homan.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:456 Jl ‘17


=BENAVENTE Y MARTINEZ, JACINTO.= Plays; tr. from the Spanish, with an
introd., by J: Garrett Underhill; authorized ed. *$1.50 Scribner 862
17-14040

  “The plays chosen are not the best known. But they are well selected
  to show the author’s wide range. They are all recent and illustrative
  of Benavente’s latest manner. The first, ‘His widow’s husband,’ is a
  farcical depiction of social and political life in a provincial town.
  ‘The bonds of interest’ is an ingenious, modern adaptation of the old
  Italian comedy of masks. Crispin, Harlequin, Columbine, and Pantaloon
  discourse airily on important themes. ... ‘The evil doers of good’
  flagellates the busybodies of a small village, who, under the guise of
  philanthropy, work harm with their meddlesome interference in the
  affairs of others. ... ‘La malquerida’ is not a thesis-drama like the
  rest, but a peasant play after the manner of Guimerá.”—Nation

  “Well selected to represent the author’s wide range and latest
  manner.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:119 Ja ‘18

  “Mr Underhill does yeoman’s service in the cause of the Spanish stage,
  showing us how very much we have to learn in America from dramatists
  already popular in Spain and South America.” T: Walsh

       + =Bookm= 46:607 Ja ‘18 100w

  “Mr Underhill’s translation is fluent and generally satisfactory.
  Occasionally he uses ‘misery’ where ‘poverty’ seems to be the word—a
  common mistake in translating French and Spanish words. There are a
  few passages where the sense seems to be somewhat misinterpreted. ...
  But for the most part one forgets that one is reading a translation.”
  N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 750w

  “Had Mr Underhill presented us with only two of the four plays that
  are in this volume—with ‘The bonds of interest’ and ‘La malquerida’—we
  should have been inclined to accept his high estimate of the dramatic
  power of Jacinto Benavente.” Padraic Colum

       — =Dial= 63:393 O 25 ‘17 750w

  “His psychology is more brilliant than profound, and the great
  passions are beyond his power to portray. He is preëminently a
  satirist. ... But tho his satire is cynically keen, it is never
  bitter, and never constructive. ... The volume commends itself to a
  frequent reader of printed plays for one rare virtue. These are
  absolutely free from the ponderous mass of descriptions, suggestions,
  interpretations and stage directions which encumber the text of so
  many modern dramas. Neither characters nor settings are described at
  all, and no directions are given. One is not even told the heroine’s
  age. ... His peasants are not real peasants, but members of le grande
  monde masquerading in poor clothes. The roughnesses and brutalities of
  life are as foreign to his genius as are the great emotions.”

   + + — =Ind= 91:183 Ag 4 ‘17 460w

  “Jacinto Benavente is the central figure among contemporary Spanish
  dramatists, the continuator of Galdós and Echegaray. Like Galdós, he
  is interested in social reform, but presents his message with a
  delicate irony of which that ponderous declaimer is incapable. And if
  he is less of a stage technician, in the narrow sense, than Echegaray,
  he interests by his very departure from theatrical convention. In his
  lightness of touch he is akin rather to Bretón de los Herreros than to
  either of his more immediate predecessors. His range is surprisingly
  great. He has attempted nearly every kind of play with scarcely a
  failure to mark his course. ... He is chiefly known as the satirist of
  modern social conditions in Spain. ... It is exceptionally difficult
  to render into English an author so subtle as Benavente, one whose
  effects depend so much upon lightness. Imagine Shaw in German! But Mr
  Underhill has been more than successful. One detects no trace of
  foreign idiom in his English. His biography of Benavente and critical
  estimate of that writer’s work is the best yet attempted in English.”

 *   + + =Nation= 105:264 S 6 ‘17 600w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:108 Jl ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:325 S 2 ‘17 260w

  “Benavente is a prolific and versatile writer and it would be
  impossible fully to represent his accomplishment with four plays, but
  those selected for this volume are sufficiently varied in theme and
  treatment to suggest the inclusiveness of his talent.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 3 ‘17 380w


=BENECKE, ELSE C. M., and BUSCH, MARIE=, trs. More tales by Polish
authors. *$1.50 Longmans A17-369

  The first volume of “Tales by Polish authors” appeared last year. “Two
  of the names that appeared in the first volume are to be found in the
  second also—Adam Szymanski and Waclaw Sieroszewski; and Szymanski’s
  two newly translated tales and Sieroszewski’s one take us again to
  Siberia. In Szymanski’s ‘Maciej the Mazur’ and ‘Two prayers,’ the
  engrossing topic is the home-sickness of the Poles in Siberia. Perhaps
  the ache of home-sickness has never been so ruthlessly forced home as
  it is in ‘Two prayers.’ ... The other stories are taken from authors
  not included in the first volume. The longest and the most striking is
  ‘The returning wave,’ by Boleslaw Prus, whose real name seems to be
  Alexsander Glowacki.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

         =Cath World= 105:553 Jl ‘17 130w

  “The short stories in ‘More tales by Polish authors’ grip from the
  first to the last page by their earnestness and the power of their
  different authors to portray characters quite out of the ordinary. The
  style is exceptionally free from the abruptness so common in Slavic
  translations.”

       + =Ind= 90:298 My 12 ‘17 60w

  “Unfortunately, half of the first volume is taken up by a tale of
  Sienkiewicz, ‘Bartek the Conqueror,’ which was already accessible.
  Chief in merit among the pieces here rendered for the first time are,
  perhaps, the three Siberian sketches by Szymanski. The English of the
  translators is excellent, with only the very smallest traces of
  foreign idiom.”

       + =Nation= 105:93 Jl 26 ‘17 650w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p560 N 23 ‘16 1100w


=BENÉT, WILLIAM ROSE.= Great white wall. il *$1 Yale univ. press 811
16-24833

  “Timur, the Tartar, has long been a favorite subject for literary
  treatment. Marlowe wrote one of his best plays about this great,
  barbaric nomad, and later Rowe made him a dramatic hero. In ‘The great
  white wall’ William Rose Benét seizes upon this ancient and cruel
  autocrat for the central figure of a singularly thoughtful narrative
  poem. It is the story of Timur’s attack on the great wall of China,
  and the story is mostly a series of pageants.”—Springf’d Republican

  “In Mr Benét’s inimitable rhythmic flare.” W: S. Braithwaite

       + =Bookm= 45:435 Je ‘17 30w

  “Elements of fantasy are happily combined with the epic story.”

       + =Ind= 89:235 F 5 ‘17 50w

  “Benét, equally with Vachel Lindsay, is restoring the chant to its
  proper place in modern poetry; his work is always interesting and
  frequently completely successful.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ap 29 ‘17 170w

       + =St Louis= 15:183 Je ‘17 20w

  “There is a wealth of descriptive verse here, as well as insight into
  moral truths.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 24 ‘17 250w

  “The poet’s metrical gifts have the fullest play here, and the verse
  must be heard to be fully appreciated. Mr Benét’s powers of
  description were never better used than in this tale of far-off things
  and battles long ago. The book is original in its workmanship, full of
  vivid description, and interesting in the life and animation that
  pervades it. It is Mr Benét at his best.” E: B. Reed

       + =Yale R= n s 6:862 Jl ‘17 120w


=BENNETT, ARNOLD.= Books and persons; being comments on a past epoch,
1908-1911. *$2 (4c) Doran 824 17-21768

  “The contents of this book have been chosen [by Hugh Walpole] from a
  series of weekly articles which enlivened the New Age during the years
  1908-1911, under the pseudonym ‘Jacob Tonson.’ ... Mr Frank Swinnerton
  approved the selection and added to it slightly. In my turn I
  suggested a few more additions. The total amounts to one-third of the
  original matter. ... I have left the critical judgments alone, for the
  good reason that I stand by nearly all of them, though perhaps with a
  less challenging vivacity, to this day.” (Prefatory note) Some of the
  authors included are: Wordsworth, Joseph Conrad, W. W. Jacobs, Anatole
  France, Swinburne, Tchehkoff, Trollope, Brieux, Henry James, and Mrs
  Elinor Glyn. There are also essays on such topics as “French
  publishers,” “The book-buyer,” “Middleclass,” “Censorship by the
  libraries,” etc.

  “Librarians will be interested in the papers on censorship by the
  libraries.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:85 D ‘17

  “The strife about the six-shilling and the sevenpenny novel, the
  attempts to censor certain novelists, and the stupid animosities of
  the middle class, are considered from the point of view of a
  wholehearted disciple of the great French realists.”

       + =Ath= p467 S ‘17 220w

  “With entertainment as his special aim, and sportiveness as his
  deliberate manner, Mr Bennett rambles hither and thither among the
  books and writers of the three-year period during which he posed as
  Jacob Tonson.” E. F. E.

       — =Boston Transcript= p7 O 10 ‘17 600w

  “I think the book is chiefly interesting as a record of the casual
  judgements—casual in form only—of a tremendous expert on his
  fellow-craftsmen.” G: B. Donlin

       + =Dial= 63:523 N 22 ‘17 1500w

  “The volume is always readable, it is often ‘intime,’ and it is nearly
  always baffling. ... His judgments seem often to issue from a mind
  that is constitutionally fussy rather than judicial.”

     + — =Nation= 105:671 D 13 ‘17 300w

  “Mr Bennett knows what he is talking about in respect of Dostoievsky,
  as in respect of Conrad, Henri Becque, François de Curel, Tchekoff,
  Wilfred Whitten. But here as elsewhere he is dealing in stimulant, not
  criticism. He is imposing his will. ... Only when he is writing of H.
  G. Wells is he sufficiently moved by his subject to lose the coolness
  of a shrewd and judicious informant and become a passionate
  critic. ... In regard to W. W. Jacobs and Rudyard Kipling and Conrad
  and Henry James and Meredith there are exceedingly pertinent
  discriminations, but absorbed or inspired interpretation in no case
  outside Mr Wells.” F. H.

     + — =New Repub= 12:332 O 20 ‘17 1150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:181 D ‘17 190w

  “In the main neither sufficiently important in theme nor sufficiently
  careful in treatment to be worthy of permanent publication in book
  form.”

     – + =Outlook= 117:575 D 5 ‘17 30w

  “When Mr Arnold Bennett appears as a critic of men and books many of
  his judgments strike us as irrational, or partial, sometimes to the
  point of absurdity. His infatuation about Mr H. G. Wells may be the
  fruit of friendship, but it is not justifiable on literary grounds,
  not even on the grounds advanced by Mr Bennett. ... Surely Mr Bennett
  is paradoxical when he praises Mr Henry James for clarity.”

   — — + =Sat R= 124:49 Jl 21 ‘17 1350w

  “Of mid-Victorian novelists he has a poor opinion. ‘There is not one
  of them that would not be tremendously improved by being cut down to
  about one-half’; moreover, ‘they are incurably ugly and sentimental.’
  Some of us will wonder to find the author of ‘The old wives’ tale’
  casting this reproach in particular at Thackeray and Dickens,
  Charlotte Brontë and Mrs Gaskell; but it is only Mr Bennett’s humor.”

         =Spec= 119:301 S 22 ‘17 130w

  “This book of literary causeries is a collection of articles published
  in 1908-1911 in a socialist journal of somewhat exasperating and
  provocative type called the New Age. They are mostly skits. They are
  not literary criticisms, though they often reflect literary
  opinions—rather opinionated opinions, it may be said. ... They have no
  importance and for American readers no interest at all. ... The one
  thing that gives flavor outlasting the ephemerality of the subject is
  Mr Bennett’s pointed journalistic style and pungent choice of epithet.
  Those who are engaged in the author’s trade and are familiar with the
  journalists and critics of London may, therefore, read these records
  of a ‘past age’ with some interest. But of sound instruction or
  authentic inspiration they have little. To a limited extent they are
  diverting.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 1300w

  “Mr Arnold Bennett is one of the few who can catch their sayings
  before they are cold and enclose them all alive in very readable
  prose. That is why these aged reviews (some are nearly ten years old)
  are as vivacious and as much to the point as they were on the day of
  their birth. They have another claim upon our interest. They deal for
  the most part with writers who are still living. We do not think this
  is a book of first rate criticism; but it is the book of an artist.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p319 Jl 5 ‘17 1150w


=BENNETT, HELEN MARIE.= Women and work; the economic value of college
training. *$1.50 (2c) Appleton 174 17-11904

  A study of the place of the college-trained woman in the modern world.
  In the past half century the type of girl entering college has
  changed; rather, many types now enter where once there was but one.
  The standards demanded of women have also changed, and, to some
  extent, college curricula have been modified to meet the new demands.
  All these matters are taken into account by the author, who, as
  manager of the Chicago Collegiate bureau of occupations, writes from
  the vocational expert’s point of view. She writes of: The
  inflorescence of the new education; College training and working
  efficiency; The problem of the college girl; The problem of the
  vocational adviser; The psychology of the girl as related to her
  occupation; The physiology of the girl as related to her occupation;
  The girl with the dramatic temperament; The philosophic temperament;
  The scientific temperament; The interdependence of occupations; The
  college girl—her own employer; The college girl and women.

  “There is a specially good chapter on the problem of the vocational
  adviser.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:426 Jl ‘17

  “A suggestive book for women in and out of college, and for the
  college faculty as well.” Edna Kenton

       + =Bookm= 46:345 N ‘17 280w

  “Packed with common sense.”

       + =Ind= 91:136 Jl 28 ‘17 50w

  “She has made a mistake in adopting a more pretentious title for her
  work than the results of her efforts warrant. The book falls far short
  of being an adequate discussion of ‘Women and work.’”

     + — =J Pol Econ= 25:856 O ‘17 200w

  “Those parts of the book which deal with the specific problem of
  finding jobs are interesting and valuable, but when the author
  attempts to characterize human traits or to give the results of
  psychology and philosophy she shows a plentiful lack of knowledge. ...
  The reader of the book is likely to be exasperated by the inexcusable
  irregularity of the style.”

     + — =Nation= 104:739 Je 21 ‘17 400w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:532 Je ‘17 70w

         =Pratt= p16 O ‘17 20w

  “With its sociology Miss Bennett’s book has combined some helpful
  information for the college graduate who is intelligently trying to
  choose work to fit her abilities.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 10 ‘17 480w

  “Written in entertaining style, and useful not only to the girls
  themselves but to any one helping to educate or ‘place’ them.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:153 My ‘17 80w


=BENNETT, HENRY EASTMAN.= School efficiency; a manual of modern school
management. il $1.25 (1c) Ginn 371 17-21650

  The author is professor of education in the College of William and
  Mary, Virginia. He has had in mind, in writing this book, the average
  community school of medium size, and the teacher of average ability.
  “It is the only book that has come from the press in recent times
  which presents in non-technical language a discussion, both of the
  specific problems of instruction and of the broad questions of
  administration and supervision. The book is really a treatise on the
  principles and practice of education.” (El School J) The book includes
  a consideration of the school plant and two chapters deal with
  “Community coöperation” and “School extension.” “Problems” and
  “Readings” are appended to the various chapters.

  “While the style of the book is distinctly non-technical the author
  presents the content of the most recent scientific investigations in
  the various fields of education.”

       + =El School J= 18:72 S ‘17 450w


=BENNETT, ROBERT JOSEPH.= Corporation accounting. (Ronald accounting
ser.) il $3 Ronald 657 16-25224

  “This is much more than a book on corporation accounting; it is more
  properly a treatise on organization from the legal, industrial,
  financial and accounting standpoints. It appears in seven parts: Part
  1 describes the process of organizing a corporation, discusses the
  different classes of capital stock and shows the purpose of the
  various corporate meetings; Part 2 takes up the special books and
  records required by corporations, and analyzes the distinctive
  corporate accounts relating to capital stock, bonds, surplus,
  dividends and reserves; Part 3 is devoted to special descriptions and
  accounting entries relating to stocks, dividends and processes of
  incorporation; Part 4 treats bond issues, including a description of
  the different classes of bonds, their security, methods of issue,
  amortization of discounts and premiums, sinking funds and redemption;
  Part 5 explains and illustrates the balance sheet, income statement,
  and various other special reports and statements; Part 6 is devoted to
  consolidation, including merger, lease and holding company; Part 7
  takes up receiverships, reorganizations and dissolutions. Much more
  space is devoted to general descriptions than to pure accounting
  discussion.”—Ann Am Acad

  “Mr Bennett has given added authority and interest to many of his
  observations by frequent citations from some of the best known
  corporations in the United States. In the preface and throughout the
  volume there is abundant recognition of alternatives of procedure. Mr
  Bennett’s volume will come to take rank. ... among the first ten or a
  dozen titles that should be owned by every one seriously interested in
  accountancy. The arrangement of the book makes it readily adaptable
  for general reference by corporation officers and accountants. When a
  new edition is prepared, it is to be hoped that more systematic and
  thorough attention will be given to the index.” C. H. Scovell

       + =Am Econ R= 7:637 S ‘17 800w

  “The book will probably serve as an excellent handbook for practical
  business men who wish a broad view of corporate organization, finance
  and accounting. The discussion is unusually clear, simple and
  informing. Except for incidental suggestions, the book is likely to
  have little value to the practicing accountant, for it is too general
  in treatment, or to one interested in the more scientific aspect of
  accounting because it is not sufficiently analytical. It may serve
  very well, however, as a text for college classes on account of its
  forms and clear descriptions.” J: Bauer

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:227 Jl ‘17 430w

  “Concise yet comprehensive.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:444 My ‘17 70w


=BENNION, MILTON.= Citizenship; an introduction to social ethics; with
an introd. by D: Snedden. *$1 (3c) World bk. co. 323 17-20398

  The author, dean of the school of education in the University of Utah
  says, “This book is the result of six years of experimentation in
  teaching ethics to college freshman and senior high-school students in
  the University of Utah. The topics have been developed in class
  discussion and afterwards written up by each student, who thus made
  his own text.” Part 1 treats of the nature of society and social
  problems; Part 2 deals with the social obligations of the individual
  and the opportunities society offers each one for development thru
  service. The book aims to meet the needs of the senior year in high
  school and first year in college. At the end of each chapter are
  questions and exercises on the subject matter of the chapter.

  “On first thought the social-science teacher might feel that the book
  has no interest for her. Should such be her conclusion, based on a
  passing notice of the book, she will change her mind upon careful
  reading. ... By making free use of the questions a teacher could make
  the book the basis of a full semester’s work in social problems.”

       + =School R= 26:69 Ja ‘18 240w


=BENSON, ARTHUR CHRISTOPHER.= Life and letters of Maggie Benson. *$2.50
Longmans 17-31049

  “The record of this life, largely by means of her letters, is made by
  her elder brother. Margaret Benson was the daughter of the
  distinguished Anglican clergyman who became archbishop of Canterbury
  in 1883, and the story of her years is necessarily to some degree the
  story of a family placed amid exceptional surroundings. ... Step by
  step we watch the progress of Margaret Benson through life, viewing
  the development of her mind and the eagerness with which she thought
  and studied. Her letters are brief and graphic, but the essential
  elements of her life, her work and her character are clearly
  summarized by her brother.”—Boston Transcript

  “Such lives as the life of Margaret Benson are among those worth
  recording but that too infrequently give inspiration to the
  biographer. ... As a contribution to the history of a remarkable
  family, Mr Benson’s book is no less remarkable than as a contribution
  to the study of a notable personality.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 24 ‘17 1750w

  “Without moralizing or preaching, merely by recounting the simple
  story of Maggie Benson’s life, he does indeed succeed in showing ‘how
  life can be lived nobly.’”

       + =Cath World= 106:404 D ‘17 350w

  “The life impresses her brother as a most useful one but he hardly
  succeeds in persuading the reader.”

       — =Dial= 64:30 Ja 3 ‘18 230w

  “Mr Benson has thrown together a mass of notes and hurried
  communications which can have very slight interest for any except
  friends of the family. ... Mr Benson’s own additions in the way of
  narrative and characterization are pleasantly written.”

     – + =Nation= 105:543 N 15 ‘17 130w

  “Dr Benson may rest assured that many readers, friends and strangers,
  will thank him for bringing out a book which will certainly elevate
  and strengthen and brighten them.”

       + =Sat R= 124:444 D 1 ‘17 650w

       + =Spec= 119:651 D 1 ‘17 60w

  “Her brother has performed his task lovingly and well. Arthur Benson’s
  own contribution is in his fluent, modulated English; he supplies
  delightful descriptions of English country life as his family lived
  it.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 4 ‘17 950w

  “It cannot be said that as far as art goes his treatment of his
  sister’s life marks any advance. The author with facile skill sets
  forth the family facts which he has mostly given elsewhere; and he
  includes a number of letters of all shades of interest. The attraction
  lies rather in that Bensonian faculty for criticizing other Bensons,
  as well as folk in general, which Maggie possessed in a large
  measure.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p552 N 15 ‘17 1000w


=BENSON, EDWARD FREDERIC.= Freaks of Mayfair. il *$1.50 (4½c) Doran
18-1525

  “In ‘The freaks of Mayfair’ Mr E. F. Benson pokes fun at some very
  paltry people. Among them are the social snobs; the woman who makes
  the fad of the moment into a religion; the man who will prattle to
  anyone who purveys nice food; the cats of both sexes who pretend to be
  kittens; and the automaton who is governed not by reason or impulse,
  but by habit.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “Mr Benson is happier in his satire than in those long and rather
  didactic efforts in fiction by which we have so far known him. ...
  Compared with satire qua satire, the sketches are not of much account,
  they are rather too obvious and laboured; but they amuse, especially
  ‘The perpendicular,’ which is decidedly the best.”

     + — =Ath= p46 Ja ‘17 100w

  “What makes this volume so worth while is that one feels that it is
  not inspired by a mere desire and delight in mocking, but that it
  springs rather from an honest and profound detestation of all the
  soft-brained and wasteful snobs and parasites that incumber a gasping
  world. Mr Benson, you feel, is a philosopher as austere as Emerson.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:463 N 11 ‘17 900w

  “Mr George Plank’s intricate patterns of lines and squares trick out
  with much ornament things that are not worth any ornament at all. ...
  When Mr Benson has finished with his freaks, the futility of what they
  do compared to the effort they make to do it must be apparent even to
  themselves. No defence is left to them; and we fear they are too
  invertebrate to turn and say: ‘How came you, brother, when paper is so
  dear, to describe us in a rivulet of print, meandering thro’ a meadow
  of margin?’”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p636 D 28 ‘16 350w


=BENSON, EDWARD FREDERIC.= Tortoise (Eng title, Mr Teddy). *$1.50 (2c)
Doran 17-17423

  This novel, the scene of which is laid in Sussex, was published in
  England under the title, “Mr Teddy.” It is a gently humorous story,
  with a slight plot, of youth, middle-age, and old age. Edward Heaton,
  or “Mr Teddy,” as he is usually called, a kindly bachelor of forty,
  devoted to his exasperatingly selfish mother, is “the tortoise.” Other
  characters are the two middle-aged sisters, “Miss Marion,” who writes
  stories for the parish magazine, and “Miss Daisy,” who looks after
  their home; Mrs Vickary, clergyman’s wife and feline diplomatist, and
  the youthful lovers, Robin and Rosemary.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:129 Ja ‘18

  “This is a far better story than ‘The Oakleyites,’ in which similar
  material is handled with less spontaneity and freshness. Mr Benson has
  no idea or ‘message’ to convey unless it be that the humours of
  ourselves and our neighbours are among the best sources of refreshment
  the Lord has given us, and that beneath them, we may flatter
  ourselves, there wells many a pure fountain of kind feeling and honest
  purpose.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:491 D ‘17 350w

  “In ‘The tortoise,’ a delightful tale of English village life, Mr E.
  F. Benson displays again his peculiarly feminine outlook to great
  advantage.”

       + =Dial= 64:77 Ja 17 ‘18 80w

  “‘The tortoise’ is just good enough to read when there’s nothing
  better around.” Harry Salpeter

     – + =N Y Call= p14 Ja 12 ‘18 320w

  “It is one of those quiet, human, very interesting tales which are so
  rare and so difficult to write.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:434 O 28 ‘17 980w

         =Outlook= 117:475 N 21 ‘17 40w

       + =Spec= 119:169 Ag 18 ‘17 30w

  “Mr Benson has the intuition and deftness to make trivialities take on
  importance.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Ja 20 ‘18 500w

  “Once more Mr Benson takes us into a quiet little set of ‘nice’ people
  in a provincial town, or village; and once more he studies them with a
  tenderness at once shrewder and blunter than Mrs Gaskell’s, but not
  less attractive.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p272 Je 7 ‘17 370w


=BENSON, OSCAR HERMAN, and BETTS, GEORGE HERBERT.= Agriculture and the
farming business. il *$3.50 Bobbs 630 17-7062

  The preface says that this book attempts “what has not yet been
  accomplished for the farmer—the bringing together in one simple
  non-technical volume of a wide range of practical scientific
  information directly related to the every-day problems of the farm and
  home.” The object of the authors has been to bring together in
  convenient form a wide variety of information that is now scattered
  thru reports and bulletins, etc. In addition to chapters covering the
  usual subjects, farm management, farm crops, live stock, etc., there
  are chapters devoted to: The farm home; The automobile and the farmer;
  Extension education and the farmer; Extension education by means of
  boys’ and girls’ club work, and other miscellaneous subjects. Mr
  Benson is connected with the United States Department of agriculture,
  and Mr Betts is author of “Better rural schools.”

  “An admirable general work. ... Well illustrated.”

       + =Agricultural Digest= 1:460 My ‘17 60w

  “There is vast deal of material touched upon between these covers, but
  it is not always clear upon what principle it is organized and
  distributed. ... This volume does pretty much all that can be done in
  500 pages towards a manual of information, of laboratory experiment,
  and of field practice. Whether the feat is worth attempting, remains a
  question.”

         =Nation= 103:521 N 30 ‘16 270w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:71 My ‘17


=BENSON, STELLA.= This is the end. *$1.35 (3c) Macmillan 17-29334

  The author has a way of her own in telling a story, as one who has
  read “I pose” will know. Simplified, the story she now tells is of an
  English girl who leaves home in war-time to become a London
  ‘bus-conductor. Hoping to find her, her family starts out on a motor
  car journey around the English coast, following clews thrown out in
  the girl’s letters. Only one of them, her brother, home on leave,
  knows that the “house by the sea” of which she writes is fancy and
  make-believe. For these two, brother and sister, have always played at
  that game together. They have lived in a secret world, which later,
  comes to an end for the girl with the news of the brother’s death in
  France.

  “Cleverness of a somewhat forced type mars the effect of this volume.
  The author has both imagination and insight, but her sarcastic gifts
  are apt to run away with her.”

     + — =Ath= p253 My ‘17 70w

  “In ‘I pose’ her recklessness seemed a little too real for comfort,
  her modernity too desperate, her feminine nature set too defiantly
  against any sort of simple emotion or faith. The impression is renewed
  in this second novel, or fantasy.” H. W. Boynton

       — =Bookm= 45:533 Jl ‘17 500w

  “Starts like an essay on modern philosophy, continues like a
  confession, goes at a bound into fiction, shifts into the manner of a
  Kipling fairy tale, and ends in perfect consistency with them all.”

       + =Dial= 63:117 Ag 16 ‘17 550w

  “Another very modern, and rebellious, and essentially sentimental
  affair.”

         =Nation= 104:737 Je 21 ‘17 230w

  “In spite of its many pathetic efforts at cheerfulness, and even
  gayety and whimsical humor, it is this effect of utter hopelessness
  which remains in the mind of the reader after closing the slender
  volume.”

         =N Y Times= 22:238 Je 24 ‘17 400w

  “A book so kaleidoscopic in its changes from mockery to tenderness,
  from realism to fantasy, defies the ordinary canons of criticism. We
  must not omit to note Miss Benson’s gift for verse—whimsical and
  mystical—or her suggestive and vivid treatment of the mysteries of
  existence. ... In fine, this is a book to bewilder the old, to perplex
  the middle-aged, and to enrapture the very modern young.”

         =Spec= 118:593 My 26 ‘17 930w

  “Miss Benson often irritates when she means to stimulate; and if we
  have dwelt on this at some length it is because the irritation spoils
  our enjoyment of gifts of fancy and expression not often met with.
  There is an imaginative tenderness in what she writes about certain
  dead soldiers which shows her sensibility to be delicate, rare, and
  true.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p152 Mr 29 ‘17 650w


=BENTON, ALEXANDER HAY.= Indian moral instruction and caste problems:
solutions. *$1.40 Longmans 17-13834

  “The British government in India has, according to the author, made
  three mistakes in dealing with the educational problem and the book
  may be regarded as a study of the causes of those mistakes and of
  possible remedies for the evil results. ... Mr Benton suggests that
  toleration should be substituted for neutrality; and toleration he
  explains to be ‘impartial favour for all religions, with maintenance
  of the law.’ Mr Benton’s suggestion is to found a committee in each
  district for religious and moral instruction, empowered to draw up a
  religious and moral syllabus; and this syllabus would ‘contain a
  narrative of the barest facts of Christ’s life simply told, with the
  most important gospel precepts embodied.” (Int J Ethics) “This scheme,
  he suggests, should be first introduced in the higher schools and
  colleges, ‘where the plague spot is to be found,’ rather than in the
  elementary schools.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

  “The treatment of the caste problem seems to us to be somewhat
  inadequate. ... A similar criticism may be passed upon the treatment
  of the subject of religious toleration. ... Here again the defect is
  chiefly due to lack of space and it may be left to the reader to fill
  in the gaps and to apply to present day problems the truths enunciated
  in the past and expounded by Mr Benton. We have nothing but praise for
  the masterly way in which Mr Benton with the scholarship of a
  statesman is not content merely with stating the problem and
  suggesting temporary and superficial remedies but insists on referring
  his readers to the fundamental principles underlying the problems set
  forth. But some of his remedial measures are dangerous.” M. C.

     + — =Int J Ethics= 27:544 Jl ‘17 570w

  “We hope that Mr Benton’s thoughtful study will commend itself to the
  British as well as to all governments concerned with the education and
  welfare of Asiatic wards.”

       + =Nation= 106:42 Ja 10 ‘18 1550w

  “The failure of the educational system being assumed, many minds have
  been directed for many years to find a remedy, or, at least, a
  palliative. Mr Benton’s book is a thoughtful contribution for this
  purpose. But ... his proposals are open to serious political
  objections.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p65 F 8 ‘17 780w


=BERCOVICI, KONRAD.= Crimes of charity. *$1.50 Knopf 361 17-15181

  “It is the contention of Konrad Bercovici that in being a remedy for
  one evil, organized charity has become itself an even greater evil to
  be combated. ... His charges are not made for the common reasons that
  it is a futile palliative, that it works toward graft and expenses
  wasted in red tape, but for the more vital reason that it becomes an
  actual force of detriment and oppression to those it is supposed to
  aid.”—Boston Transcript

  “It is a very strong book whose pictures come very truly from the
  heart of reality.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 21 ‘17 1000w

  “In spite of the extreme position of condemnation taken by the author
  as the result of his alleged experiences as an investigator, the book
  is worth reading as showing the possible need of a change of method
  along certain lines.”

       + =Cleveland= p93 Jl ‘17 50w

  “Many of the charities condemned by the author of ‘Crimes of charity’
  would certainly not be considered forms of ‘organized charity’ by
  those who are supposed to know what these words stand for. ... But the
  book is chiefly devoted to the work of a large relief agency,
  apparently a Jewish relief society in New York, and the author finds
  his opportunity to observe the methods of the society by becoming what
  he calls a ‘charity spy.’ ... Is it necessary to say that such
  dishonesty is not really the method of organized charity in America.
  The language of the author is extremely violent throughout. ‘This
  stupid ass in charge of the poor,’ ‘This spiritual hog,’ are typical
  of expressions found throughout the book. His conduct is almost
  equally violent. ... Whatever the faults of organized charity may be,
  they are certainly not set forth in this volume of hysterical
  stories.” Edith Abbott

     – — =Dial= 62:478 My 31 ‘17 1200w

  “The testimony given by the author is not melodramatic, but a
  revelation made by one who has studied at first hand conditions that
  are pathetic, thrilling, and revolting.”

       + =Lit D= 55:37 S 22 ‘17 200w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:687 O ‘17 90w

         =Pratt= p11 O ‘17 20w

  “A preposterous attack.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 60w


=BERENSON, BERNARD.= Study and criticism of Italian art, v. 3. il *$3.25
Macmillan 759.5 (17-14402)

  “Of the six essays in this volume, five relate to Venetian painting in
  the fifteenth century. They have been selected because they deal with
  points for which there was no room in another book, published under
  the title of ‘Venetian painting in the United States: the fifteenth
  century.’ Two essays, however, on Carpaccio’s ‘Glory of St Ursula’ and
  ‘A Carpacciesque Madonna in Berlin,’ stand somewhat apart, being
  chiefly essays in method. A paper on Leonardo da Vinci is an attempt
  at a revaluation.”—Ath

         =Ath= p197 Ap ‘17 80w

  “It is equally hard to accept our critic’s final appraisal of
  Leonardo, whom he would put down to Botticelli’s level. And still
  harder is it to share his implicit tenet that the art of the Far East
  gives us a norm by which Leonardo’s painting, and presumably all other
  painting, is to be measured. ... Even if Leonardo does not seem wholly
  to come to his rights in this remarkable essay, the incidental
  criticism and the fresh point of view are boldly significant.” R:
  Offner

     + — =Dial= 63:447 N 8 ‘17 1850w

  “Offers besides the reprinted papers a novelty and a sensation in a
  revaluation of Leonardo da Vinci. Mr Berenson describes whimsically
  his gradual liberation from the spell of legend and his final view
  that Leonardo is barely a great artist, rather a charming draughtsman
  obfuscated by the discovery of counterpoise and chiaroscuro. We by no
  means share the individual appreciations, or depreciations, upon which
  Mr Berenson’s view is based. ... The whole volume is good reading
  whether for the amateur or for the professional student.”

       + =Nation= 104:663 My 31 ‘17 430w

  “Nor will the admirer of Leonardo be much troubled by the dubious
  studio works with which Mr Berenson tries to fortify his case. The
  essence of his attack is that knowledge, science, logic, and attention
  to technical problems are ruinous to the artist. Such a sweeping
  generalization does not stand the test of inquiry.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p91 F 22 ‘17 1200w


=BERENSON, BERNARD.= Venetian painting in America: the fifteenth
century. il *$4 Sherman, F: Fairchild 759.5 16-25230

  “Gathered and amplified into a book, Mr Berenson’s conclusions, known
  to us through his serial studies in Art in America, have gained in
  persuasion and consequence. Mr Berenson, finding an adequately
  representative sequence of Venetian paintings in our collections, has
  grouped them historically; and adopting the discursive method of his
  avowed master Morelli, he has made them the pretext for discussion of
  almost all problems incident to their study. ... As one might expect,
  the central figure in the book is Giovanni Bellini, and the central
  problem, his chronology.”—Dial

         =Ath= p307 Je ‘17 60w

  “One of the most significant works of reconstructive criticism that
  have appeared in recent years on the subject of Italian painting. It
  teems with incidental criticism, æsthetic evaluations, and valuable
  hints of attribution. ... The 263 pages of text are abundantly
  illustrated with one hundred and ten reproductions and provided with
  two tables and two indexes.” R: Offner

 *     + =Dial= 62:64 Ja 25 ‘17 2500w

  “Alike for enjoyment and for minute consideration of attributions and
  chronology the book must be read widely. Thanks are due the publisher
  for making what must have been a pretty costly book accessible at a
  price possible for students.”

 *     + =Nation= 104:316 Mr 15 ‘17 720w

  “Whatever one may think of the author’s method, the volume shows
  insight and enthusiasm and contains valuable information on the
  subject with which it principally deals.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 570w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p166 Ap 5 ‘17 90w

  “If the book fails wholly to satisfy, the scheme on which it is
  planned must be held in some measure responsible. The author has
  attempted to rewrite the history of the Venetian school in terms of
  the pictures representing that school in America. These are of very
  unequal merit, and though interest in them doubtless gave Mr Berenson
  the principal stimulus for his work, it is a little unfortunate for
  its permanent value that it was not planned on cosmopolitan lines.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p195 Ap 26 ‘17 750w


=BERESFORD, JOHN DAVYS.= House-mates. *$1.50 (1½c) Doran 17-12391

  The main interest in this story lies in the author’s analysis of the
  character of Wilfred Hornby, a young architect, shy, awkward,
  conventional, brought up “to divide society into categories.” “His
  early experiences at home, at school, and in the architect’s office,
  his love affairs and engagement to his cousin Gladys—a poseuse to the
  backbone ... are related with comparative brevity. Then comes the day
  when, for the first time in his life, obliged to act for himself, he
  takes lodgings on the ground floor of the old house in Keppel street,
  a house inhabited by all sorts and conditions of men—and women.
  Resolved though he is at first to have nothing to do with his
  fellow-lodgers, proud of his isolation, he is gradually, inevitably
  drawn into the life of the house. And presently he comes to know all
  these ‘House-mates’ of his, and one of them is the girl with whom he
  quickly falls honestly and deeply in love.” (N Y Times) In Keppel
  street Wilfred learns to alter his standard of values and comes to the
  “simple realization of [his] essential equality with the rest of
  mankind.”

  “When all is said, it is by far the most vital and most appealing of
  all Mr Beresford’s novels.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 8 ‘17 1300w

 *       =Nation= 105:292 S 13 ‘17 750w

  “The hand of the craftsman continues to work, though the materials are
  of a quality so much thinner and cruder than those he customarily
  uses.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:387 Ja 26 ‘18 380w

  “The book is written in a style somewhat easier than are the majority
  of Mr Beresford’s novels, but it does not quite rank with his best
  work—not with ‘A candidate for truth,’ for instance—though it is, of
  course, well worth reading and decidedly interesting. The development
  of Hornby’s character, which is the core of the book, is in every way
  excellent. The product of his narrow, middle-class, Sabbatarian
  surroundings, the brief spells of emotionalism for which he is unable
  to find a name, his hesitations and mistakes, and that honesty which
  lies at the root of his character—all these are portrayed with sure,
  firm strokes. ... In the last pages of the story we are given a brief
  glimpse of the result of the war and of several weeks’ service in the
  trenches on this especial temperament.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:322 S 2 ‘17 1050w

  “Not by any means the equal of Mr Beresford’s ‘These Lynnekers.’ The
  incidents are disagreeable and in one case revolting, and the young
  man who narrates the history of his younger days is much more
  interested in his own psychological development than the reader is
  likely to be.”

       — =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 50w

  “If, however, the book has no great central purpose, so that there
  seems to be no place where the reviewer can take hold, it brings out
  two big Beresford ideas—freedom from restraint, whether that restraint
  be stereotyped art or stereotyped thought, and democracy.” Doris Webb

     + — =Pub W= 92:808 S 15 ‘17 500w

  “Its purpose is to show the influence of a strange group of human
  beings in drawing out and molding the spirit and character of a
  sensitively introspective young man. It is a carefully wrought
  picture, and a keenly analyzed situation, differing widely from the
  character of work Mr Beresford has done heretofore. ... It is not a
  particularly easy or entertaining story to read.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 23 ‘17 660w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p104 Mr 1 ‘17 480w


=BERESFORD, JOHN DAVYS.= The Wonder. *$1.40 (2c) Doran 17-8200

  The story of a child prodigy. Victor Stott was the son of the most
  famous man of his time in England. It was the father’s ambition to
  raise up a son who should take his place. The father was a champion
  cricketer; the son turned out to be a Wonder. Abnormal in appearance,
  his well-developed and sturdy child’s body appearing frail in
  comparison with his massive head, Victor Stott seemed, so far as those
  who tried to puzzle out his case could ascertain, to possess
  illimitable understanding. Nothing in the universe, unless it was the
  mystery of his own personality, was hidden from him. He had a strange
  power over every one who came in contact with him. There was one being
  only who could defy that power. This was the idiot boy, who tried
  dumbly to claim a kinship with the Wonder. No-mind and absolute-mind
  were brought into contact in these two. As Henry Challis, the
  scientist, explained the Wonder, he represented finality, giving a
  glimpse of what a world would be without ignorance and without
  mystery.

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 45:315 My ‘17 400w

  “All the elements of wizardry in this story can only be suggested. It
  is told consistently with all the verisimilitude of a scientific
  document, with an occasional footnote and a mention of actual men that
  can not fail to delude the reader, at least for the moment, into
  thinking that he is having set before him the life story of a prodigy
  that actually existed. As to his fate, ... it brings the story to a
  logical and a sensible conclusion.” E. F. E.

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 31 ‘17 1050w

         =Nation= 105:456 O 25 ‘17 500w

  “Throughout the book we feel restraint. Now and again in elusive
  realism possible analogies in the life of Jesus are hinted at,
  analogies which are never pressed—from that pitfall the author is
  saved by his understanding of how only in little flashes historical
  analogy may appeal to the imagination. But for the familiar and barren
  query, ‘What would happen if Jesus appeared on earth today?’,
  Beresford plainly substitutes in effect the more stimulating query,
  ‘What would have to happen today to produce the effect Jesus once
  produced?’” E. C. P.

     + — =New Repub= 13:53 N 10 ‘17 1900w

  “Mr Beresford’s new story is quite unlike any of his previous novels.
  It is, indeed, a peculiar book, and one is not at all certain whether
  the author intends it to be taken partly at least, as an allegory. ...
  But one thing at least seems fairly certain—it is a book about which
  people will disagree.”

         =N Y Times= 22:113 Ap 1 ‘17 500w

  “The workmanship of the book is notable; its intent is presumably
  satirical, but it is also, to us at least, unfathomable.”

         =Outlook= 115:710 Ap 18 ‘17 200w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:649 O ‘17 20w

  “In ‘The wonder’ Mr J. D. Beresford has satirically pilloried certain
  methods of education and taken a fling at the sum of human knowledge.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:553 N ‘17 210w


=BERGER, MARCEL.= Ordeal by fire; tr. by Mrs Cecil Curtis. *$1.50 (1c)
Putnam 17-26261

  This story of the first days of the war follows the development of a
  man who is transformed from a sceptic and cynic to a loyal and ardent
  patriot. Michel Dreher is in Switzerland when he learns that war has
  been declared. For a moment he entertains the idea that he need not
  return to his country. That he does so is due to a sense of his social
  position rather than to patriotism. He takes up his duties as a
  sergeant half-heartedly, but as the war progresses he gradually
  undergoes a change. Shortly before he had met a young French girl who
  attracted him greatly, but since love and marriage had no place in his
  cynical scheme of life, he had passed her by. But with his new
  seriousness he comes to think of her more and more often and the
  Epilogue, which carries the story into 1915, pictures their union. The
  author is a sergeant in the French army.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:314 Ap ‘17

  “It is grimly terrible, but not morbid.”

       + =Bellman= 22:303 Mr 17 ‘17 260w

  “This, evidently, is a book of deeper mood and meaning than the now
  famous ‘Gaspard’; here are Gaspards in their natural setting and
  relation to the great theme as a whole—the great theme of France at
  war, which has here its finest interpretation in fiction thus far.” H.
  W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:93 Mr ‘17 550w

  “A vivid translation of a story that throbs with life.”

       + =Cath World= 105:543 Jl ‘17 160w

  “The story is told in the first person with all the characteristic
  incident and spirited dialogue to be expected from a French writer
  handling such a theme.” P. F. Bicknell

       + =Dial= 62:306 Ap 5 ‘17 180w

  “‘Ordeal by fire’ does for France something very much like what ‘Mr
  Britling’ and ‘The vermilion box’ have done for England. It shows how
  the war came home to France.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 104:404 Ap 5 ‘17 180w

       + =Nation= 104:491 Ap 26 ‘17 950w

  “Whatever M. Berger, himself a sergeant in the French army, was solely
  responsible for in this book has been admirably done. ... But the work
  of the translator leaves much to be desired. ... One closes the book
  with a strong desire to read it in French.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:26 Ja 28 ‘17 700w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 150w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 40w


=BERLE, LINA WRIGHT.= George Eliot and Thomas Hardy; a contrast. *$1.50
Kennerley 823 17-30753

  In a preliminary chapter the writer shows that it is Eliot and not
  Hardy who furnished a basis upon which rational idealism may be
  developed,—one which, while acknowledging facts, recognizes also the
  relation of the spiritual elements in life to the grosser material
  forces. George Eliot’s idealism has been in the direction which
  subsequent generations have found most sound. Hardy, on the other
  hand, is the romantic decadent. His characters never pass from a lower
  to a higher spirituality but are bound on the wheel of life which
  inexorably breaks them in its revolution. Following a statement of
  these fundamental principles of difference are essays that show the
  striking contrast in treatment of both weak and good women; that
  indicate how both novelists struck the same rock in the creation of
  men—both making the minor characters real men, their principals, men
  of straw; points out the differences of goal in their love
  stories,—Eliot attaining wisdom higher than ourselves thru suffering
  and pain, Hardy descending to licentious, often brutal love; finds
  saneness in the treatment of old age; and closes with an illuminating
  estimate of radical and reactionary types with the deduction that
  Eliot was the radical and Hardy the reactionary.

  “On every page of Miss Berle’s book is evidence of the futility of
  writing such a study.” E. F. E.

       — =Boston Transcript= p9 N 24 ‘17 780w

  “As worked out by Miss Berle the thesis becomes fruitful of excellent
  criticism, at once ethical and æsthetic, as the best literary
  criticism always is. Only the last chapter gives one pause. In her use
  of the words ‘radical’ and ‘conservative’ Miss Berle is somewhat
  arbitrary, and in a manner that may lead to confusion in the minds of
  many readers.”

     + — =Nation= 105:697 D 20 ‘17 200w

  “The book is decidedly interesting and well phrased, but one feels
  that while the radicalism of George Eliot has been properly valued by
  the author, there are emendations that might be suitably made to the
  estimate of Hardy.”

     + — =R of Rs= 57:217 F ‘18 70w


=BERTSCH, MARGUERITE.= How to write for moving pictures; a manual of
instruction and information. il *$1.50 (2½c) Doran 808.2 17-17069

  The author is director and editor for the Vitagraph company and the
  Famous players film company. “Her complete discussion of the writing
  and production of the photoplay is followed by warnings against
  hackneyed themes, which she classifies, and a presentation of
  unhackneyed possibilities.” (Springf’d Republican) The last four
  chapters deal with the censorship and the educational possibilities of
  moving pictures. The illustrations are from photographs. There is no
  index.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:49 N ‘17

  “The literature of scenario-making is already bulky, but Miss
  Bertsch’s manual is well worth a place in it.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 90w


=BETTS, FRANK.= Saga plays. *$1.25 Longmans 822

  There are three plays in this collection: The passing of Sinfiotli;
  Ingiald Evilheart, and The sword of Sigurd. Writing in 1917, the
  author says in his preface, “The plays were completed in April, 1914,
  by one who did not believe that great wars were any longer possible.
  Especially in ‘The sword of Sigurd’ he used the traditional motif of
  the sword to stand in his imaginations for all the adventurous and
  creative life of men. There is now need for the actual and physical
  sword as well as the Sword of the Spirit. ... The writer finds nothing
  to alter on this account. ... ‘The sword of Sigurd’ is not intended to
  be a complete play. It is a prologue to a play, as yet unfinished,
  dealing with the death of Sigurd.”

  “They present tragic episodes from the ‘Volsungasaga,’ and the terse,
  grinding dialogue is strong and dramatic, and a fair imitation of that
  in the translated sagas. But though a prose different from that of
  real life is tolerable in a translation, where one unconsciously makes
  allowances, it gives a sense of unreality here without evoking the
  right poetic atmosphere.”

     + — =Ath= p411 Ag ‘17 100w

  “Through their likeness and unlikeness to the conditions of our own
  strenuous days Mr Betts’s three plays come apt to the moment. Even in
  the days of laughter and dancing, peace and overflowing garners they
  would have been found exciting, exalting work. ... The dialogue seems
  to thrill and quiver; and though we are always kept close to the
  matter in hand, the suggestions of thought on fighting, on adventure,
  on honour, on religion and fate, set the mind at work outside the
  scope of the stories here vividly and dramatically told.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p246 My 24 ‘17 900w


=BETTS, GEORGE HERBERT.= Class-room method and management. il *$1.25
Bobbs 371.3 17-13425

  “Part 1, which is devoted to a discussion of general method, makes use
  of what Professor Betts calls the ‘four cardinal elements which
  comprise method.’ These to him are (1) the determination of aim, (2)
  the selection of material, (3) the organization of subject-matter for
  instruction, (4) presentation or the technique of instruction. He
  states the outcome of instruction in the elementary subjects as (1)
  fruitful knowledge, (2) right attitudes, (3) applied skills. ... In
  Part 2 the author discusses method in teaching, applied specifically
  to reading, spelling, language, arithmetic, geography, history,
  civics, physiology and hygiene, agriculture, and home economics. In
  each case he makes use of his four cardinal elements of method and
  tries to summarize the conclusion from the recent scientific work in
  learning and teaching in each of the elementary subjects.”—El School J

  “In spite of the many excellences of the book, the reader familiar
  with contemporary critical thought in education finds frequent cause
  for disappointment. ... Nearly all contemporary books intended as
  guides to teachers, while indicating orientations of aim and subject
  matter, fail like that of Dr Betts, to present acceptable indications
  as to desirable boundaries of the areas of knowledge and skill to be
  mastered.” D: Snedden

     + — =Educ R= 54:203 S ‘17 1450w

  “The title of the book is in part misleading. It is really a rather
  systematic treatise on the principles of education and general
  principles of method in teaching together with a statement of method
  applied specifically to each of the common branches. ... Prof. Betts’s
  discussion of the teaching of spelling ought to be very helpful. His
  treatment of reading from the standpoint of the ‘quantitative
  movement’ is quite inadequate. ... He has not taken advantage of
  available scientific material in the chapter on the teaching of
  arithmetic. ... This book will be of definite value to prospective
  teachers of elementary subjects or teachers who wish to keep abreast
  of current modes of thinking about school problems.”

     + — =El School= J 17:687 My ‘17 520w


=BEVAN, EDWYN ROBERT.=[2] Land of the two rivers. *$1 (3c) Longmans 935
(Eng ed 18-1520)

  A brief historical survey that attempts to answer the question What
  has Mesopotamia stood for in the past? The author says: “The country
  which we incorrectly call Mesopotamia and the countries connected with
  it—Armenia, Asia Minor, Palestine, Persia—have recently become
  associated with living interests of the hour and immediate questions
  of practical politics; that may seem a reason for trying to give a
  fresh rapid survey of what their significance has been in former
  ages. ... I have tried to seize the main points and leave out all
  details which did not contribute to making them apprehensible.” There
  is one folding map.

  “This admirable little sketch of Mesopotamia’s place in history is by
  far the best of its kind that we have seen. Mr Bevan’s very first
  sentence, protesting against that misleading catchword ‘the
  unchangeable East,’ stimulates curiosity, and is fully justified in
  the course of the book.”

       + =Spec= 119:452 O 27 ‘17 210w

  “To write a small book on such a subject calls for special qualities
  in its author, if it is not to degenerate into a mere list of names
  and dates. Mr Bevan has avoided that pitfall. The reader with no
  special knowledge of ancient history will here find a book he has long
  wanted.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p523 N 1 ‘17 900w


=BEVAN, EDWYN ROBERT.= Method in the madness. *$1.50 Longmans 940.91
17-28628

  A fresh consideration of the case between Germany and ourselves. Loyal
  to the cause of the Allies, in no sense a pacifist, the author who is
  an Englishman sets aside controversy and denunciation and prepares an
  unimpassioned statement of what appear to him the inexactitudes in
  prevalent views of Germany; and looks at Germany just as it might be
  looked at by some one who stood outside the hurly-burly, with a
  desire, not to score points, but to say what he seems to see. In the
  quiet atmosphere of reflection he invites the reader to a
  consideration of truths which forward-looking men of all countries
  regard as basic, calling attention to these truths as the common
  ground upon which plans for peace may be made, the questions of
  territorial possessions and economic prosperity cleared up, and the
  matter of future warfare settled for all time.

  “This English book on the great war has two unusual characteristics:
  it is written in a style of fine and deliberate quality, and its
  writer is almost as much as it is humanly possible to be, fair and
  dispassionate. ... With regard to the attainment of peace, his chapter
  entitled ‘Differences on the major premise’ is of special worth as
  showing that after all the difference between the contending parties
  is not so much a difference of primary principles as of judgment on
  particular facts.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:252 N ‘17 500w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:825 D ‘17 100w

  “Perhaps its greatest merit is that Mr Bevan, unlike too many of the
  patriotic men of letters who ‘do their bit,’ has really taken the
  trouble to master his material. ... Our only criticism concerning the
  documentation of the book is that it has been allowed to appear
  without an index. That is all the more unfortunate because there is a
  certain lack of consecutiveness and plan. ... His book is valuable for
  the light it throws on German aims and German methods.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p315 Jl 5 ‘17 1100w


=BIERSTADT, EDWARD HALE.= Dunsany the dramatist. il *$1.50 (4c) Little
822 17-7565

  This study of Lord Dunsany consists of four chapters: The man; His
  work; His philosophy; Letters. The author finds a happy
  characterization of Dunsany in the exclamation of Thoreau, “Who am I
  to complain who have not yet ceased to wonder?” He cannot be
  classified as a realist or romanticist, for he deals not with life but
  with dreams. The series of letters, taken from a correspondence
  between Mr Stuart Walker and Lord Dunsany during Mr Walker’s
  production of the Dunsany plays, is particularly interesting. The
  illustrations show scenes from the plays.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:398 Je ‘17

  “The most interesting section of Mr Bierstadt’s book is the chapter
  which records the recent correspondence between Lord Dunsany and Mr
  Stuart Walker, the proprietor of the Portmanteau theatre. ... The
  simple record of this correspondence, in itself, would make the book
  worth reading. ... Those of us who have seen ‘The gods of the
  mountain’ do not need to be told that it is a great play. All we
  really want to learn is a catalogue of further facts concerning the
  career of a dramatist whose life has been hidden in obscurity. On this
  account, it is unfortunate that Mr Bierstadt’s book is weakest on the
  score of information.” Clayton Hamilton

       + =Bookm= 45:192 Ap ‘17 700w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 18 ‘17 950w

  “While Mr Bierstadt’s comments are entertaining rather than
  authoritative, the volume will repay perusal.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:544 Ja ‘18 110w

  “He has read everything in print on the subject. He has conned all the
  plays and Dunsany’s other writings. Yet the result leaves one with a
  sense of undiscovered depths. Least fortunate of all is Mr Bierstadt
  in the life of Dunsany. ... The appendix, on the contrary, dealing
  with productions and publication, seems precise and accurate. The
  sixteen illustrations in half-tone give us a notion of both the man
  and his plays. Altogether the book will be welcome as the first
  treatment of a playwright whose vogue has advanced with surprising
  leaps in the last year or two.”

     + — =Nation= 105:18 Jl 5 ‘17 350w

       + =N Y Times= 22:316 Ag 26 ‘17 700w

  “The most discriminating and valuable part of the author’s survey is
  his treatment of Dunsany’s philosophy. Like Yeats, Dunsany is more
  interested in ideas than in people. ... But he has revived Wonder for
  us. His plays release us from an intolerable burden of photography and
  realism.” Algernon Tassin

       + =Pub W= 91:975 Mr 17 ‘17 550w

         =R of Rs= 55:662 Je ‘17 370w

         =St Louis= 15:151 My ‘17 20w

  “His criticisms are highly laudatory, but the points at which he takes
  issue with Dunsany are points which to the average reader will appear
  to have little importance.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 480w


=BIGELOW, FRANCIS HILL.= Historic silver of the colonies and its makers.
il *$6 Macmillan 739 17-25629

  A vast fund of information has been collected in this work which
  describes and illustrates the various forms of colonial silver of the
  seventeenth and eighteenth centuries made principally by the colonial
  silversmiths. It seeks its audience among possessors of colonial
  heirlooms, art lovers, art collectors, and art students. Church
  silver, beakers, tankards, flagons, mugs, chalices, table silverware,
  candlesticks, porringers, casters, tea kettles, inkstands, stew pans,
  bread baskets and many other objects wrought in silver are included
  with genealogical and historical notes concerning owners, donors and
  silversmiths. Over three hundred illustrations accompany the text.

  “The 325 illustrations of pieces of colonial plate which the author
  has selected as typical or as particularly beautiful will arouse the
  wondering admiration of those who think of our forefathers only as
  simple and rather inartistic frontiersmen.”

       + =Ind= 92:261 N 3 ‘17 100w

  “There is a confusing mass of genealogical information and dates which
  would appeal principally to the collector or student, but there is,
  too, much that is interesting for the general reader. The anecdotes
  that enliven these pages are of like variety and interest.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:38 D 8 ‘17 160w

  “The art side of our pre-Revolutionary times is seldom brought home to
  us so graphically as in this well-illustrated book. The author writes
  as one who loves his subject and is an authority upon it.”

       + =Outlook= 117:349 O 31 ‘17 40w

  “The book will prove a joy to lovers of old silver and a competent
  guide to collectors.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:103 Ja ‘18 220w

  “He has made a book of much value in its particular place, one which
  collectors and connoisseurs will be very glad to possess.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 250w


=BIGELOW, JOHN.= Breaches of Anglo-American treaties; a study in history
and diplomacy. maps *$1.50 Sturgis & Walton 341.2 17-11357

  In quotations from the British press the author shows that the United
  States has been looked upon as a treaty breaker. His purpose in this
  book, begun and practically finished before the war, is to examine the
  record of the two nations in this respect. He says, “The following
  study is devoted to determining the relative trustworthiness of two
  great nations as indicated in their conventional intercourse with each
  other. Beginning with the treaty of peace at the end of our War of
  independence, it considers all the treaties, conventions, and similar
  agreements negotiated between Great Britain and the United States that
  may be regarded as broken by either of the contracting parties, sets
  forth and discusses the infraction in each case, and ends with a
  summarising of the records on both sides and a balancing of the
  accounts.” This summary shows that “the United States has more than a
  safe balance of good faith to its credit.”

  “A perusal of the work indeed fully confirms the accuracy of the
  statement that it ‘was not written to form or influence public opinion
  as to any phase or feature of the present world war.’ ... An
  examination of the disputes arising out of the Clayton-Bulwer treaty
  occupies nearly two-thirds of the volume. In this way their relative
  importance is perhaps unduly enhanced.” J. B. Moore

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:194 O ‘17 850w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:40 N ‘17

  “A curious, interesting, and, in some ways, a futile book. It would
  seem to reflect the spirit of an enquiring mind, rather than the
  results of profound research.” P. M. Brown

     – + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:577 Ag ‘17 530w

  “The limits of this review do not permit of an analysis, or estimate
  of the evidence which Major Bigelow brings forward in support of his
  conclusions but it may be doubted whether the case he makes out
  against Great Britain in some of the instances which he cites is
  conclusive.” J. W. Garner

         =Ann Am Acad= 72:240 Jl ‘17 480w

  “Marked by fairness of treatment and broad scholarly effort.”

       + =Cath World= 105:553 Jl ‘17 120w

  “We have ventured to sound a note of protest against the tone and
  temper of this volume, which doubtless contains much valuable matter,
  but we should equally regret railing accusations on behalf of British
  claims. One can only hope that a major, even though retired, is
  finding now more useful scope for his energies than in fanning the
  flames of wellnigh extinct controversies.” H. E. Egerton

       — =Eng Hist R= 32:443 Jl ‘17 900w

  “Greatly to be commended for its research and candor. ... After
  reading the author’s gatherings and conclusions about the treatise
  named, one lays down the book feeling that he has produced a powerful
  argument for the world court that seems to be rapidly coming nearer.”

       + =Ind= 90:436 Je 2 ‘17 150w

         =R of Rs= 56:215 Ag ‘17 80w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 My 25 ‘17 1250w


=BILBRO, MATHILDE.= Middle pasture. il *$1.25 (1½c) Small 17-26262

  The middle pasture divided the two Crawford farms. Neglected and
  unused and overgrown with brambles, it lay between the well-kept
  acres, dividing the two families as well. For at their father’s death,
  each brother had claimed it, and the family quarrel that resulted had
  lasted thru many years. The difference didn’t extend to the children,
  however, and the pasture that separated their elders became a common
  meeting ground for them. Billy and Beatrice climbed the stone wall on
  one side to meet Mary and Carey, who came tumbling over the wall on
  the other. The pasture was a very paradise for play. Beatrice, a
  delightful mixture of earnestness and mischief and naughtiness and
  wisdom, tells the story, bringing into it the grown-up affairs of many
  of the neighbors in the pleasant little southern community.

  “A mildly interesting story by a precocious child of twelve who with
  her brother manages the affairs of family and friends in a little
  southern town. ... Of course there is a sentimental interest. A good
  example of its type.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:314 Ap ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:313 My ‘17 250w

  “Another of the type of stories to which ‘Little women’ and ‘Rebecca
  of Sunnybrook farm’ belong.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 170w

       + =Dial= 62:246 Mr 22 ‘17 180w

  “A good story about decent, lovable human beings told with directness
  and simplicity.”

       + =Ind= 90:84 Ap 7 ‘17 140w

  “We are pretty close to village melodrama. But there are
  characterization and true color and sincere feeling in the book.” H.
  W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 104:404 Ap 5 ‘17 40w

  “The telling is simple; but after it is all over you wonder why the
  book should have been written at all. It is a weak novel of the ‘old
  South’ type.” C. W.

     – + =N Y Call= p13 Ap 22 ‘17 120w

       + =N Y Times= 22:99 Mr 18 ‘17 350w

  “The atmosphere of the story is fresh and delightful.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 220w

  “Very real folk and a charming setting—a little Alabama farming
  community—make this a pleasing story.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 40w


=BILLINGS, MARIS WARRINGTON, pseud. (EDITH S. BILLINGS).= Cleomenes.
*$1.40 (1½c) Lane 17-13922

  “The central figure is Cleomenes, the great sculptor, who is
  commissioned by the emperor to make a statue symbolizing maidenhood.
  This piece of art is known in the present as the famous ‘Medici
  Venus.’ In his search for a beautiful, virtuous maiden to serve as
  model, Cleomenes chooses a young Greek slave girl, and sets to work in
  the atmosphere of danger and intrigue of Nero’s court. The story,
  which involves the sculptor, the model and the emperor as its
  principal actors, unfolds during the progress of the work on the
  statue.”—Springf’d Republican

  “The characters, many of them historical, follow generally historical
  tradition. The chief exception is that of Octavia, the young wife of
  Nero.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 250w

  “The author deserves praise for the care with which the background of
  imperial Rome has been prepared and set forth.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:250 Jl 1 ‘17 190w

  “The tale is not distinguished either as to style or character
  drawing, but the author makes telling use of fact and legend to make a
  narrative of suspense and thrilling incident, the action of which
  never lags.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 2 ‘17 300w


=BINDLOSS, HAROLD.= Brandon of the engineers (Eng title, His one
talent). il *$1.35 (1c) Stokes 16-24202

  Altho the scene of this story is Central America, its plot is
  concerned with international affairs. Dick Brandon, who had been
  dismissed from the Royal engineers after losing valuable papers that
  were in his possession, is engaged in engineering work in one of the
  Central American states. Here he unexpectedly meets Clare Kenwardine
  and her father, who are associated in his mind with his disgrace, for
  it had been after an evening spent at their house that the loss of the
  papers was discovered. Kenwardine’s presence in the country is not
  explained, but it later develops that he is, and has all the time
  been, a spy. This disclosure however does not permanently affect
  Brandon’s relations with Clare.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:266 Mr ‘17

       + =Ath= p544 N ‘16 60w

  “The author’s hand too obviously moves his puppets about;
  circumstances do not occur as the result of character, but at the very
  apparent wish of the author.”

         =Boston Transcript= p13 Ap 7 ‘17 190w

  “Interesting but not important.”

         =Ind= 90:257 My 5 ‘17 50w

  “Like most of Mr Bindloss’s books, this one is neatly manufactured,
  but Brandon is less likeable than are the majority of his heroes.”

         =N Y Times= 22:40 F 4 ‘17 300w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p526 N 2 ‘16 130w

  “Not better than the author’s other stories, but of a different type.”

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 40w


=BINDLOSS, HAROLD.= Carmen’s messenger. il *$1.35 Stokes 17-13719

  Carmen is the “belle” of a Canadian lumber town and her messenger is a
  young Englishman going home to visit the parents of his partner. Just
  before he leaves a man commits suicide—or is murder committed?—and a
  safe is robbed. At this time too he learns for the first time that his
  partner is subject to blackmail owing to wrongdoing in his youth.
  Carmen’s message is a package to be personally delivered in Great
  Britain. The outwitting of blackmailers and evil-doers takes place
  both on the Scottish border and in Canada and local color is added to
  the interest of events.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:59 N ‘17

  “A well-written tale of adventure, but the complications are rather
  too numerous and too subtle.”

       + =Ath= p204 Ap ‘17 15w

  “Not a remarkable piece of work in any particular, but it is a capital
  story of adventure told in a forthright manner, which insures the
  reader’s attention.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 280w

       + =N Y Times= 22:311 Ag 26 ‘17 500w


=BING, PHIL CARLETON.=[2] Country weekly. *$2 Appleton 070 18-291

  A manual for the rural journalist and for students of the country
  field. “The purpose of this book is to open the whole subject of the
  problems and possibilities of the country field. It is written to show
  the journalistic neophyte that there are chances in the country field
  which are worth while from every point of view. It is written, too, to
  suggest plans and possibilities to men who are already in the field;
  to encourage a vigorous effort among country editors to do their
  utmost to make country journalism a bigger, more vital thing than it
  has heretofore been.” (Preface) Contents: The country weekly and its
  problems; Local news; County correspondence; Agricultural news; The
  editor; The editorial page; Make-up of the country weekly;
  Copy-reading and headline writing; Circulation problems; Advertising
  in the country weekly; Cost finding for the country weekly.

  “Notwithstanding Professor Bing’s disclaimer that he presents this
  book as an authoritative, definitive guide, every editor and
  journalistic neophyte who absorbs the feast of good things provided
  under its many subjects will be in a fair way to make a success in his
  profession. In his chapters on the editor and the editorial page
  Professor Bing devotes several pages to an elaboration of some capital
  suggestions which might be adopted to their ultimate profit by city
  editors.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 29 ‘17 290w


=BINYON, LAURENCE.= The cause. *$1 Houghton 811 17-9484

  A volume of poems on the war, with such titles as: The fourth of
  August, Ode for September, To women, The bereaved, To the Belgians,
  Louvain, Orphans of Flanders, To Goethe, At Rheims, Gallipoli, The
  healers, Edith Cavell, The zeppelin, Men of Verdun, etc.

  “Reprints some of the poems which appeared in ‘The winnowing fan.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:439 Jl ‘17

  “This spirit of exaltation, of glory in the fact that England has
  chosen the heroic part, is the strongest emotional utterance
  throughout the book. It is the book’s strength and its weakness. He
  approaches the whole subject in the guise of the idealist, and while
  he admits the presence of pain and death, he counts them little beside
  the white heights of patriotism. This attitude is apparently
  instinctive, but it makes evident a certain limitation, for one must
  recognize the depths of human passion in the sacrifice and
  consecration of the soldier before that sacrifice and consecration can
  raise him to the loftiest heights.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 2 ‘17 1150w

  “Laurence Binyon’s poetry once was somewhat coldly ‘literary’—aloof
  from common human experience. But the war has given him new vigor and
  new humanity.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1511 My 19 ‘17 280w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:78 My ‘17

  “Laurence Binyon’s vigorous war poems have great spiritual strength
  and imaginative richness. ‘Thunder on the downs’ has scarcely been
  equaled by any poet save Masefield since 1914, and ‘Fetching the
  wounded’ fixes a picture every eye-witness of the war must remember.
  It is quite the best work Mr Binyon has done.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:660 Je ‘17 50w


=BIRD, CHARLES SUMNER, jr.= Town planning for small communities.
(National municipal league ser.) il *$2 (2c) Appleton 710 17-11219

  A volume prepared by the chairman of the Walpole town planning
  committee and based on the experience of Walpole, Massachusetts. The
  book is divided into three parts. Part 1 consists of a general
  discussion of town planning with chapters on The why of town planning,
  Ways and means, Streets and roads and physical problems, Parks and
  playgrounds, Outdoor recreation, Public health, etc. Parts 2 and 3 are
  devoted specifically to Walpole’s experience. Bibliographies are added
  to the chapters of part 1. Mr Clinton Rogers Woodruff, general editor
  of the National municipal league series, says that the book affords an
  admirable complement to John Nolen’s volume on “City planning”
  published earlier in the series.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:438 Jl ‘17

  “The appropriateness, interest and novelty of his experiment justify
  the book in spite of some deficiencies in execution. These include a
  lack of proportion—the choice of illustrations—nearly always local and
  sometimes even personal; and the all pervading discussion of Walpole.
  These, it must be confessed, are faults natural to that town viewpoint
  which is the first requisite for a book of this kind.” C: M. Robinson

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:787 N ‘17 260w

  “The inclusion of this practical matter renders the book all the more
  useful as a guide to other communities seeking to rebuild themselves
  in a scientific and economical manner.”

       + =Dial= 64:75 Ja 17 ‘18 260w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:88 Je ‘17 130w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:812 D ‘17 60w

  “The illustrations are effective and interesting.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:327 S ‘17 70w

  “The spirit animating the book is that of a broad, fraternal
  liberalism which is entitled to be regarded as progressive in the best
  sense. ... The foreword is a vigorous protest against the evils of
  individualism, especially as found in the manufacturing classes and as
  embodied in the industrial village.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 1100w

         =Survey= 39:46 O 13 ‘17 220w


=BIRDSALL, RALPH.= Story of Cooperstown. il $1.50 M. F. Augur,
Cooperstown, N.Y. 974.7 17-18707

  Mr Birdsall is the rector of Christ church, Cooperstown, where Cooper
  worshipped and within whose grounds he was buried. A circumstantial
  account is given of Cooper’s life in the village, and many pages are
  devoted to the subject of the originals of the most famous characters
  in his novels. The book also gives the history of Cooperstown and its
  inhabitants from Indian days to the present time.

  “Contains many photographic illustrations.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 1 ‘17 1150w

  “Books about Cooperstown there have been in some numbers, one of them
  by Cooper himself, which he called ‘Chronicles,’ but this and others
  deal with the smaller and less generally interesting facts. Mr
  Birdsall’s book stands quite apart from any of these. It abounds not
  so much in the simple annals of an old and somewhat aristocratic
  community, as in sketches of important men and picturesque events,
  that give to the book much wider value. ... The style has distinct
  originality and is notable for its literary quality.”

       + =Lit D= 55:33 Ag 18 ‘17 1300w

  “The author has done his work well and has made as human and as
  interesting a book of that kind as any one could wish.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:279 Jl 29 ‘17 1100w

       + =R of Rs= 57:104 Ja ‘18 30w


=BIZZELL, WILLIAM BENNETT.= Social teachings of the Jewish prophets: a
study in Biblical sociology. *$1.25 (2c) Sherman, French & co. 224
16-23121

  The author says, “This volume is the outgrowth of studies begun in the
  University of Chicago several years ago, and since made use of in a
  series of lectures delivered to college students and instructors. The
  approach to the study of prophetic literature from the social point of
  view has aroused a genuine interest, but the fact that I could find no
  book that exactly met the requirements made the instruction somewhat
  difficult.” This book, based on the best works of modern scholarship,
  will doubtless meet the needs of others planning similar courses. The
  general plan is to present the life and teachings of each of the
  prophets against his historical background, for it is assumed that
  “the social message of the Jewish prophet was intended for his own
  times.” The author is president of the Agricultural and mechanical
  college of Texas.

  “We are almost led to doubt whether the author knows anything about
  either biblical or sociological science. ... What we have here is an
  uncritical use of critical tools. On top of the lamentable deficiency
  in scientific method the book is swamped beneath a host of inexcusable
  errors in spelling and the like.”

       — =Bib World= 49:379 Je ‘17 250w

     + — =Dial= 63:534 N 22 ‘17 100w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:436 My ‘17 20w

  “For those who wish to revalue the teachings of the Judaic prophets,
  this book meets a real need.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:554 N ‘17 80w

         =St Louis= 15:47 F ‘17 12w


=BLACKMORE, SIMON AUGUSTINE.=[2] Riddles of Hamlet and the newest
answers. il *$2 Stratford co. 822.3 18-2484

  The only apologia a writer needs for the appearance of a new
  interpretation of Hamlet is that the interest inherent in the tragedy
  is perennial. Hamlet is examined in this study not only as a drama,
  but as an ethical treatise in which the characters and the problems in
  the play are shown in their relation to Shakespeare’s religious and
  social affiliations. The first part is preliminary and deals with such
  questions as the invalidity of Gertrude’s marriage, Hamlet’s right to
  the crown, his feigned madness, his commonly alleged vacillation and
  defective power of will, his character, his religion and philosophy.
  The second part is the commentary proper. It takes up the drama, scene
  by scene, analyzing the thought and purpose and Shakespeare’s
  pertinent allusions. An appendix contains a “Note on the doctrine of
  repentance and justification in relation to the conflict of the king
  at prayer.”

       + =Cath World= 106:691 F ‘18 250w


=BLACKWOOD, ALGERNON.= Day and night stories. *$1.50 Dutton 17-21793

  “These fifteen stories are of varying length, and in each of them is
  some phase of that form of mysticism which Mr Blackwood has made the
  basis of all his fiction. Their mystic quality is, however, as
  variable as their length. ... Now and then they touch the mythology
  and the religions of bygone ages; now and then they are wholly of the
  immediate hour.” (Boston Transcript) Contents: The tryst; The touch of
  Pan; The wings of Horus; Initiation; A desert episode; The other wing;
  The occupant of the room; Cain’s atonement; An Egyptian hornet; By
  water; H. S. H.; A bit of wood; A victim of higher space; Transition;
  The tradition.

  “It is probably coincidence that the title of this book has already
  been used for two volumes of more or less creepy stories by Mr T. R.
  Sullivan, published in the early nineties. Mr Blackwood’s fancies are
  to my mind more effective in these brief sketches than in the
  long-drawn narratives of ‘Julius Le Vallon’ and ‘The wave.’” H. W.
  Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:207 O ‘17 310w

  “Especially notable in this collection are two stories entitled, ‘The
  occupant of the room’ and ‘By water.’” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 1750w

  “The present volume is not one that can be regarded with very warm
  hopes for the author’s permanence in literature. Certainly such a tale
  as ‘The touch of Pan’ is not worthy of a place in any volume.”

     – + =Cath World= 106:407 D ‘17 320w

  “Mr Blackwood is undeniably a master of style—one not only rich and
  wonderful in itself, but also admirably adapted to his bizarre
  stories.”

       + =Dial= 63:532 N 22 ‘17 160w

  “The ‘Stories’ have the author’s usual unusualness. No one else could
  write with the restrained art which always seems about to lift the
  curtain between man and the unseen, yet always leaves us with a sense
  of mystery and of Isis faintly guessed at thru many veils.”

       + =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 50w

  “No one of these stories equals the half dozen tales, scattered
  through different volumes, which represent the high-water mark of Mr
  Blackwood’s production. ... That reincarnation theory, which forms the
  cornerstone of so much of Mr Blackwood’s fiction, is the main theme of
  ‘Cain’s atonement’—a story of the present war. ... Two of the most
  characteristic stories in the volume are ‘Initiation’ and ‘H. S. H.,’
  both tales of the mountain solitudes.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:310 Ag 26 ‘17 1100w

  “We have often commented on the imaginative quality of Mr Blackwood’s
  work. These mystical tales have that quality in a pre-eminent degree.
  Like his former stories, they possess distinct literary value.”

       + =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 30w

  “The book is seasoned with one humorous tale.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p92 F 22 ‘17 650w


=BLACKWOOD, ALGERNON.= The wave; an Egyptian aftermath. *$1.50 (1c)
Dutton 16-24201

  From childhood he had been haunted by a wave. It rose behind him,
  advanced, curled over from the crest, but did not fall. Sometimes it
  came as a waking obsession, sometimes as a dream. His father, a
  learned psychologist with inclinations toward Freud, tries to explain
  it, but the Freudian hypothesis is inadequate. Associated with the
  wave, is a strange perfume, identified afterwards as Egyptian. The
  recurring experience follows him into manhood, affecting his life and
  his relations to men and women. Certain persons are borne to him on
  the crest of the wave, as it were. These always become of significance
  in his life. Of them are Lettice Aylmer and his cousin Tony. Later in
  Egypt, these three act out a drama which seems to be a repetition of
  something they have experienced before. It is here that Tom
  Kelverdon’s wave rises to its full height and breaks, but it does not
  overwhelm him.

  “On the whole, Mr Blackwood maintains, though he does not strengthen,
  our good opinion of his imaginativeness and power of evoking the
  beautiful.”

       + =Ath= p544 N ‘16 150w

  “Mr Blackwood knows how to give these stories of reincarnation an
  effect beyond mere creepiness. But his method is so leisurely that he
  is often ‘slow,’ in the sense of dull and long-drawn-out; and his
  manner is formal and ponderous and unleavened by humour: common
  frailties of philosophical romance.” H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 45:207 Ap ‘17 480w

  “Never before has Mr Blackwood written a novel that comes so close to
  the real things of life as ‘The wave,’ It touches persistently upon
  the supernatural, but its visions are wholly subjective.” E. F. E.

     + + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 21 ‘17 1400w

       + =Ind= 89:556 Mr 26 ‘17 200w

     + — =Nation= 104:368 Mr 29 ‘17 430w

  “One’s strongest impression on closing this book is that of
  beauty—beauty alike of style and of spirit. The glory of words, the
  grandeur that was Egypt, the splendor of a brave and loving human
  soul—these are the very substance of this fascinating volume.”

     + + =N Y Times= 22:47 F 11 ‘17 950w

  “A strange and unusual book, full of insight and imagination. It is
  the work of a very delicate literary craftsman, who is a past master
  in the art of elusive suggestion.”

       + =Sat R= 123:40 Ja 13 ‘17 500w

  “With the characteristic Blackwood mystery to help, the book is rich
  in excitement and experience.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p488 O 12 ‘16 450w


=BLAISDELL, ALBERT FRANKLIN, and BALL, FRANCIS KINGSLEY.= American
history for little folks. il *75c (2c) Little 973 17-25786

  This book, adapted for use in the third school grade, is intended as
  an introduction to “The American history story-book” and other more
  advanced works by the authors. The aim has been to choose some of the
  more dramatic and picturesque events and to relate them in a simple
  and easy style. A partial list of contents follows: Columbus, the
  sailor; The sea of darkness; The hero of Virginia; Seeking a new home;
  Captain Miles Standish; Dark days in New England; The Dutch in New
  York; William Penn, the Quaker; A famous tea party; Polly Daggett
  saves the flagpole; Peggy White calls on Lord Cornwallis.

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

         =Bookm= 46:496 D ‘17 50w


=BLANCHARD, RALPH HARRUB.= Liability and compensation insurance. il *$2
Appleton 331.82 17-24252

  A textbook which presents the results of the workmen’s compensation
  movement in the United States in terms of legislative and insurance
  practice, and explains the industrial accident problem and the
  development of liability and compensation principles as a background
  for the comprehension of present problems. The book is divided into
  three parts: Industrial accidents and their prevention; Employers’
  liability and workmen’s compensation; Employers’ liability and
  workmen’s compensation insurance.

  “Mr Blanchard covers the entire field in a very fair way, though it is
  evident that he does so in the professor’s study rather than from the
  ground of practical experience. The insurance feature is especially
  well covered.”

     + — =Dial= 63:534 N 22 ‘17 170w

  “The author deals with the state compensation acts, and the stock
  company, mutual and state fund methods of insuring the payment of such
  compensation. He concludes that, because of insufficient data, a
  choice among these three methods cannot be made at present. The author
  misses the determining factor in such a choice. This is, that the most
  desirable method of taking care of industrial accident losses is that
  which does most to prevent such losses.”

       — =Engin News-Rec= 79:1170 D 20 ‘17 240w

  “In the presentation of the insurance problem an important and timely
  contribution has been made.” E. S. Gray

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:1050 D ‘17 250w

  “It should appeal primarily to teachers and students of insurance, but
  it contains much information of interest to the business man and the
  intelligent general reader as well.”

       + =Nation= 106:122 Ja 31 ‘18 360w

  “The subject is presented both broadly and well. The point is not
  shirked that the subject in some aspects is controversial. In such
  cases both sides are presented, as the author’s intention is to give
  information rather than judgment.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:497 N 25 ‘17 230w

  “The author has to be commended for the clearness and conciseness of
  statement and helpful bibliographic notes. On the other hand it must,
  like most text-books, be dogmatic, and one fails to get the impression
  from reading the book how much is still controversial in the field of
  compensation. ... One is somewhat inclined to question the wisdom of
  the printing of the New York compensation law as an appendix to the
  book. The New York act is not as typical as a good many other acts.”
  I. M. Rubinow

     + — =Survey= 39:149 N 10 ‘17 350w


=BLAND, JOHN OTWAY PERCY.= Li Hung-chang. (Makers of the nineteenth
century) il *$2 (2c) Holt (Eng ed 17-26886)

  Mr Bland is joint author of Backhouse and Bland’s “China under the
  Empress Dowager.” The introductory chapter of the present volume
  reviews the conditions existing in China at the outset of Li
  Hung-chang’s career. The author then gives a detailed account of Li’s
  life from childhood to his death in 1901, just after the Boxer
  rebellion, at the age of seventy-eight. He considers him as a Chinese
  official, as a diplomat, a naval and military administrator, and a
  statesman and politician, and concludes that Li’s chief claim to
  greatness lies in the fact that, at the time of the Taiping rebellion,
  he “grasped the vital significance of the impact of the West, and the
  necessity for reorganizing China’s system of government and national
  defences to meet it.” The biographer’s task, he tells us, has been
  complicated by the lack of any accurate Chinese account of Li’s
  career, and the untrustworthiness of Chinese official records.
  Moreover, the “Memoirs of the Viceroy Li Hung-chang,” published in
  1913, were a “literary fraud.” The present work, therefore, is based
  largely upon the recorded opinions of independent and competent
  European observers. There is a bibliographical note of two pages,
  followed by a chronological table of events in Chinese history. The
  book is indexed.

  “Mr Bland makes very clear to us the mingling elements in Li’s nature,
  showing how sometimes patriotism and sometimes self-interest stirred
  him most. ... By the time we reach Mr Bland’s final summing up of the
  character we realize how skilful has been his handling of the material
  and how vividly he has made us realize his impression of the great
  premier.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 17 ‘17 900w

       + =Lit D= 55:36 N 3 ‘17 950w

  “His treatment of his subject recalls a time when familiarity with
  life at the treaty ports was enough literary capital for the ordinary
  authority on Chinese affairs and real acquaintance with their history
  and ideas was left to the missionaries. ... No new material about Li
  has been unearthed, no advance has been made towards obtaining Chinese
  estimates of the man, no approach towards any but an Englishman’s
  point of view is attempted. ... On the other hand, it is fair to add
  that the book is easily read and that it portrays a rather splendid
  type of the oriental viceroy.”

     – + =Nation= 105:488 N 1 ‘17 1500w

  “Excellent biography.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:501 N 25 ‘17 1000w

  “The really significant services that Li Hung Chang rendered to his
  race are clearly set forth in this volume by a writer who has had good
  opportunities to study China and the Chinese at first hand.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:551 N ‘17 120w

  “If the provision of an adequate ‘setting’ is one of the difficulties
  to be encountered in limning Li Hung-chang’s career, another is the
  paucity of record. ... Mr Bland is to be congratulated upon the
  comprehensive narrative which he has succeeded in compiling.”

 *   + – =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p535 N 8 ‘17 1850w


=BLATHWAYT, RAYMOND.= Through life and round the world; being the story
of my life. il *$3.50 Dutton 17-23043

  Mr Blathwayt is a British journalist who has traveled widely and has
  made a specialty of the art of interviewing. Before taking up
  journalism, he served as a curate in Trinidad, in the East End of
  London, and in an English village. He believes himself to be the first
  to adapt the American “interview” to English manners. Among those
  interviewed by him are William Black, Thomas Hardy, Hall Caine, Grant
  Allen, William Dean Howells, Thomas Bailey Aldrich, and Oliver Wendell
  Holmes.

  “Illustrated from photographs and from drawings by Mortimer Menpes.”
  E. F. E.

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 8 ‘17 800w

  “So many aspects of English life and examples of English character are
  included in Mr Blathwayt’s book that it forms a reminiscential
  commentary upon the journalistic and literary world of London during
  the past thirty years.” E. F. E.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 11 ‘17 900w

  “The book is a veritable gold mine for the after-dinner speaker, for
  it is besprinkled with quotable anecdotes.”

       + =Dial= 64:30 Ja 3 ‘18 250w

  “His book abounds in what Mr Leacock calls ‘aristocratic anecdotes,’
  platitudinous reflections, and ‘fine writing.’ His naïve confessions
  as a curate help to explain the spiritual deadness and professionalism
  of the Church of England; they might well be used as illustrative
  footnotes to ‘The soul of a bishop.’”

       — =Nation= 105:610 N 29 ‘17 190w

  “It is very entertaining, as engaging a book of reminiscence as has
  been put before the public in many a day.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:293 Ag 12 ‘17 1200w

  “Mr Blathwayt is a born raconteur. Particularly good are his
  descriptions of his life as a young curate and as an almost penniless
  wanderer in Connecticut.”

       + =Outlook= 117:26 S 5 ‘17 70w

         =Sat R= 123:436 My 12 ‘17 820w

  “All his admiration of Captain Marryat and of Mrs Radcliffe has not
  taught him to spell their names right. He misquotes with the utmost
  facility. ... Here is a writer who has made livelihood and reputation
  by writing, yet has never mastered the elementary rules of the
  art. ... His book is frequently, though not constantly entertaining;
  but it would be much less entertaining than it is without the
  innocence of its author’s self-revelation.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p198 Ap 26 ‘17 950w


=BLEACKLEY, HORACE WILLIAM.= Life of John Wilkes. il *$5 (3½c) Lane
17-24876

  This is a scholarly account, based to a great extent on original
  documents of the English politician, publicist and political agitator,
  who, “from 1764 to 1780 was the central figure not only of London but
  of England.” (Sat R)

  “Mr Bleackley has executed his task in a scholarly and interesting
  manner, and his book forms an acceptable supplement to Lecky. ... The
  numerous illustrations are a valuable feature of the book.”

       + =Ath= p419 Ag ‘17 160w

  “Remarkable as the career of John Wilkes confessedly was, and
  undeniably interesting as this biography is, in spite of Mr
  Bleackley’s literary skill its final impression is not good. If, as we
  are told, none ‘of his contemporaries influenced more powerfully the
  spirit of the age,’ that spirit must have been grossly immoral to
  condone his immoral grossness.”

     – + =Lit D= 55:44 N 17 ‘17 240w

  “Mr Bleackley has found a subject well suited to his talent in this
  profoundly interesting historical study.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:417 O 21 ‘17 550w

       + =Outlook= 117:184 O 3 ‘17 50w

  “This is one of the best biographies that have appeared for a long
  time. Mr Bleackley has read and rifled nearly all the memoirs,
  manuscripts, diaries, letters, newspapers of the period, and we have
  not read a more erudite and conscientious treatment of a controversial
  subject. ... He treats his hero with the benevolent impartiality of
  the scientific historian.”

 *   + + =Sat R= 124:sup4 Jl 7 ‘17 1200w

  “Mr Bleackley has given us a most interesting book. ... He has put
  before himself the task of proving that a man who wrought so much for
  liberty was himself a great man and a lover of the cause for which he
  fought. We allow that Wilkes had genius of a sort, but doubt whether
  he really cared two pins about the rights of constituencies, or the
  illegality of general warrants, or the liberty of the press. He fought
  for John Wilkes, and in fighting for him achieved results of wide
  constitutional importance.”

 *       =Spec= 119:167 Ag 18 ‘17 1500w

  “The language is journalistic. ... As a picture of 17th-century
  England in its most corrupt and licentious phases the book has some
  historical value, though it is too often written in the language of
  gossip rather than history. ... The book has its faults—particularly
  its emphasis upon Wilkes’s mistresses—but the evidence is well
  documented. ... It is to be regretted that a career so closely
  connected with American independence should be treated to so great an
  extent as the subject of a record of private vices. ... There is much
  biographical and historical matter in it of genuine interest.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 23 ‘17 1050w

  “Mr Bleackley enumerates a good many of those who have included Wilkes
  in their historical canvases. ... An essay by Fraser Rae preceded
  Trevelyan’s description in his rainbow-tinted history of Charles James
  Fox, and later came a biography in two volumes by Percy Fitzgerald.
  Praise is reiterated of the excellent monograph by J. M. Rigg in the
  ‘Dictionary of national biography’; but so far as we see, no mention
  is made of by far the most judicial and philosophic account of the
  transactions in which Wilkes was conspicuous in Lecky’s ‘History of
  England in the eighteenth century.’ ... His style is a little arid,
  but his ripened power of research, his patience and diligence in
  sifting material, combine to furnish a truly notable portrait. ... The
  historical background shows a great advance upon any of his preceding
  work. ... The volume is very well finished, the references (largely to
  Mss.) overwhelming, the illustrations well-chosen, the errata
  scrupulous, the index complete.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p318 Jl 5 ‘17 2050w


=BLUMENTHAL, DANIEL.=[2] Alsace-Lorraine. map *75c (7c) Putnam 943.4

  “A study of the relations of the two provinces to France and to
  Germany and a presentation of the just claims of their people.” The
  author, an Alsatian by birth, has been deputy from Strasbourg in the
  Reichstag, senator from Alsace-Lorraine, and mayor of the city of
  Colmar. The book has an introduction by Douglas Wilson Johnson of
  Columbia university, who says, “The problem of Alsace-Lorraine is in a
  very real sense an American problem.”

  “There is no more moving recent plea for the restoration of
  Alsace-Lorraine than this little volume.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 9 ‘18 200w


=BLUNDELL, MARY E. (SWEETMAN) (MRS FRANCIS BLUNDELL) (M. E. FRANCIS,
pseud.).= Dark Rosaleen. *$1.35 (1c) Kenedy A17-1416

  A story of modern Ireland. In a study of the relationship between two
  families, the author gives an epitome of the situation that exists in
  Ireland between Catholics and Protestants. Hector McTavish’s father is
  a fanatical Scotch Presbyterian, but since he grows up in a Catholic
  community, Hector makes friends with the children of that church.
  Patsy Burke is his dearest playmate and Honor Burke is to him a foster
  mother. Fearing these influences, the father takes the boy away and,
  when he returns thirteen years later, it is to find Patsy an ordained
  priest and Patsy’s little sister, Norah, grown into sweet womanhood.
  The love between Hector and Norah, their marriage and the birth of
  their child leads to tragedy. But, in the child, the author sees a
  symbol of hope for the new Ireland.

  “The author has not written a thesis novel, but a touching tale of
  what she feels and loves.”

       + =Cath World= 105:259 My ‘17 130w

  “There is nothing intolerant in the spirit of this very thrilling
  book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:166 Ap 29 ‘17 550w


=BODART, GASTON, and KELLOGG, VERNON LYMAN.= Losses of life in modern
wars; ed. by Harald Westergaard. *$2 Oxford 172.4 16-20885

  “It is the function of the Division of economics and history of the
  Carnegie endowment for international peace, under the direction of
  Professor J. B. Clark, to promote a thorough and scientific
  investigation of the causes and results of war. ... The first volume
  resulting from these studies contains two reports upon investigations
  carried on in furtherance of this plan. The first, by Mr Gaston
  Bodart, deals with the ‘Losses of life in modern wars:
  Austria-Hungary, France.’ The second, by Professor Vernon L. Kellogg,
  is a preliminary report and discussion of ‘Military selection and race
  deterioration.’ ... Professor Kellogg marshals his facts to expose the
  dysgenic effects of war in military selection, which exposes the
  strongest and sturdiest young men to destruction and for the most part
  leaves the weaklings to perpetuate the race. He cites statistics to
  prove an actual measurable, physical deterioration in stature in
  France due apparently to military selection. ... To these dysgenic
  aspects of militarism the author adds the appalling racial
  deterioration resulting from venereal diseases.”—Dial

         =Am Hist R= 22:702 Ap ‘17 450w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:196 F ‘17

  “The work is a candid and sane discussion of both sides of this very
  important aspect of militarism.”

       + =Dial= 61:401 N 16 ‘16 390w

  “It would be difficult to exaggerate the importance of this original
  and authoritative study into the actual facts of war.”

       + =Educ R= 52:528 D ‘16 70w


=BOGARDUS, EMORY STEPHEN.= Introduction to sociology. $1.50 University
of Southern California press, 3474 University av., Los Angeles, Cal. 302
17-21833

  The author who is professor of sociology in the University of Southern
  California offers this textbook as an introduction not only to
  sociology in its restricted sense but to the entire field of the
  social sciences. He presents the political and economic factors in
  social progress not only from a sociological point of view but in such
  a way that the student will want to continue along political science
  or economic lines. It is the aim to stimulate and to direct social
  interest to law, politics and business. He discusses the population
  basis of social progress, the geographic, biologic and psychologic
  bases as well; social progress as affected by genetic, hygienic,
  recreative, economic, political, ethical, esthetic, intellectual,
  religious, and associative factors. A closing chapter surveys the
  scientific outlook for social progress.

  “The advantage of Professor Bogardus’s method is that it brings to
  bear in a simple, elementary way a great mass of pertinent facts.”

       + =Dial= 63:596 D 6 ‘17 150w

  “The author does not, perhaps, distinguish clearly enough between the
  sociological and the social points of view.” B. L.

     + — =Survey= 39:202 N 24 ‘17 240w


=BOGEN, BORIS D.= Jewish philanthropy; an exposition of principles and
methods of Jewish social service in the United States. *$2 Macmillan 360
17-15182

  “The entire field of Jewish social service, both theoretic and
  practical, is here discussed by a man who has been engaged in it for
  about twenty-five years as educator, settlement head, relief agent,
  and now field secretary of the National conference of Jewish
  charities. ... The author points out that the pre-eminent Jewish
  contribution to social service in this country is the ‘federation
  idea.’ By federating their charities, the Jews succeeded in uniting
  communities, in raising more funds to carry on work more adequately;
  they have prevented duplication of effort, conserved energies and
  eliminated waste.” (Survey) The book has an eight-page bibliography.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:40 N ‘17

  “No one perhaps is better qualified to discuss with authority the
  subject of Jewish philanthropy than Dr Boris D. Bogen, of Cincinnati.
  Himself a Russian by birth and early training, he speaks concerning
  the immigrant with a thoroughness born of intimate and empiric
  knowledge, supplemented by years of accurate and exhaustive study.” A.
  A. Benesch

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:785 N ‘17 580w

  “Once in a while the author makes a sweeping statement without citing
  authorities. There are two serious drawbacks to the usefulness of the
  work. One is the constant use of Hebrew words, which are usually not
  translated or are mistranslated. Any future work of this character
  should have a glossary of such Hebrew words as part of its appendix.
  The other is the chapter on Standards of relief, which ought to have
  been the most important, received the most scant attention. But all in
  all, the book is a splendid piece of work.” Eli Mayer

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 74:303 N ‘17 400w

         =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 10w

       + =Ind= 92:109 O 13 ‘17 110w

  “The book contains a great mass of information regarding various
  Jewish philanthropies, although no attempt is made to present
  statistical matter in a formal way.”

         =R of Rs= 56:441 O ‘17 50w

  “Dr Bogen’s book is wide in scope and will be found useful as a
  handbook for non-Jewish as well as for Jewish social workers.” Oscar
  Leonard

       + =Survey= 38:532 S 15 ‘17 500w


=BOIRAC, ÉMILE.= Our hidden forces (“La psychologie inconnue”); an
experimental study of the psychic sciences; tr. and ed., with an
introd., by W. de Kerlor. il *$2 (3c) Stokes 130 17-13485

  This work, translated from the French, is based on investigations in a
  field to which scientists of note in the United States, with the
  exception of William James, have given little attention, that of
  psychic phenomena. In France, on the other hand, the translator
  assures us, such investigations, have made such progress as to gain
  national recognition. The book is based on experimental studies and
  consists of collected papers that were written during the period from
  1893 to 1903. Animal magnetism in the light of new investigations,
  Mesmerism and suggestion, The provocation of sleep at a distance, The
  colors of human magnetism, The scientific study of spiritism, etc.,
  are among the subjects.

  “Professor Émile Boirac, rector of the Academy of Dijon, France, and
  author of this book, is an acknowledged leader of thought in matters
  both psychological and psychic. He has devoted many years to studying
  the problems pertaining to life and death, and this present book was
  awarded the prize in a contest to which many of the leading
  psychologists contributed. ... Though a scientific book, it is not
  without attraction for the lay reader.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 13 ‘17 320w

         =Cleveland= p91 Jl ‘17 30w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:93 Je ‘17

       + =R of Rs= 56:106 Jl ‘17 80w


=BOLIN, JAKOB.= Gymnastic problems; with an introd. by Earl Barnes. il
*$1.50 (4c) Stokes 613.7 17-12150

  This book by the late Professor Bolin of the University of Utah has
  been prepared for publication by a group of his associates, who feel
  that the work is “one of the most important contributions to the
  subject of gymnastics which has been written in English.” In the first
  chapter the author discusses the relation of gymnastic exercise to
  physical training in general. His own position is that the aim of
  gymnastics is hygienic in a special sense, its object being to
  counteract the evils of one sided activity. The remaining chapters are
  devoted to: The principle of gymnastic selection; The principle of
  gymnastic totality; The principle of gymnastic unity; The composition
  of the lesson; Progression; General considerations of method.

  “Of value to all teachers of physical education and to those
  interested in healthful efficiency.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:10 O ‘17


=BONNER, GERALDINE (HARD PAN, pseud.).= Treasure and trouble therewith.
il *$1.50 (1½c) Appleton 17-21974

  “After the opening scene, which pictures a hold-up and robbery of a
  Wells-Fargo stage coach in the California mountains, the story drops
  into more conventional lines of romance. The robbery, which is the act
  of two rough prospectors, is the prelude to the social experiences in
  San Francisco of a familiar type of cosmopolitan adventurer. He is
  little better than a tramp when he discovers the robbers’ cache. He
  makes off with the gold and conceals it near San Francisco. Being
  well-born and educated, though thoroughly unscrupulous, he finds an
  easy entrance to San Francisco society.” (Springf’d Republican) The
  rest of the book gives the story of his life in the city. The
  California earthquake of 1906 plays an important part in the story.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:59 N ‘17

  “Geraldine Bonner has a good plot in ‘Treasure and trouble therewith,’
  although not an especially attractive one. ... All her pictures of
  California are vivid and sympathetic, but the character drawing is
  unskilful.”

     + — =N Y Evening Post= p3 O 13 ‘17 80w

  “Miss Bonner has endeavored, with commendable success, to combine
  realism with the stirring incidents and dramatic situations of the
  story of plot and action. Especially good are the chapters which deal
  with the earthquake.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:311 Ag 26 ‘17 770w

  “In spite of the complete lack of plausibility, the book affords a
  certain measure of diversion.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 16 ‘17 300w


=BOSANKO, W.= Collecting old lustre ware. (Collectors’ pocket ser.) il
*75c (3½c) Doran 738 A17-1002

  The editor in his preface says that he believes this to be the first
  book on old English lustre ware ever published. He adds: “Yet there
  are many collectors of old lustre ware; it still abounds, there is
  plenty of it to hunt for, and prices are not yet excessive. By the aid
  of this informative book and the study of museum examples a beginner
  may equip himself well, and may take up this hobby hopefully, certain
  of finding treasures.” There are over forty-five illustrations.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:436 Jl ‘17

  “Simple, practical handbook.”

       + =Cleveland= p97 Jl ‘17 20w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 5:75 My ‘17 20w

       + =R of Rs= 56:220 Ag ‘17 50w


=BOSANQUET, BERNARD.= Social and international ideals. *$2.25 Macmillan
304 (Eng ed 17-28213)

  “This volume is a collection of essays, reviews, and lectures, all of
  which, with one exception, were published before the war, and most of
  which on the face of them reveal that fact. ... Though the contents of
  the volume seem at first sight to be fortuitously put together, there
  runs through them unity of spirit, thought, purpose, and manner.” (The
  Times [London] Lit Sup Jl 12 ‘17) “Most of the pages (14 out of 17 are
  reprinted from the Charity Organization Review) discuss the principles
  which should govern our handling of social problems with the view of
  displaying ‘the organizing power which belongs to a belief in the
  supreme values—beauty, truth, kindness, for example—and how a
  conception of life which has them for its good is not unpractical.’”
  (The Times [London] Lit Sup Je 21 ‘17)

  “We may single out, as of special importance in this new volume, Mr
  Bosanquet’s idea of the growth of individuality and his idea of the
  structure of political society. In the chapter on ‘Optimism’ he points
  out that the mistake of its opponents is the acceptance of their
  momentary experience as final. ... Criticism, confined to a few
  sentences, must obviously be inadequate. ... If there are omissions in
  Mr Bosanquet’s analysis of fact, his ideal also appears to be too
  simple.”

       + =Ath= p398 Ag ‘17 950w

  “It is a great privilege to listen to a wise man and a real logician,
  who is at once a wit and a humanitarian. Dr Bosanquet was not for
  nothing a fellow in moderations. The whole book is full of sound
  common sense.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 19 ‘18 600w

         =Cleveland= p135 D ‘17 60w

  “Written in a strain of reasoned optimism.” M. J.

       + =Int J Ethics= 28:291 Ja ‘18 200w

  “Here we have the precious kernel of wisdom in the hard nut of
  paradox. No doubt, justice and kindness, beauty and truth are the
  things that matter most, and it is no small service to direct our
  thoughts once again to them. But how to embody and realize them in the
  maze and tangle of our actual world, that is a problem apparently too
  great for any single thinker.” R. F. A. H.

     + — =New Repub= 13:353 Ja 19 ‘18 1850w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p299 Je 21 ‘17 130w

  “If we are tempted to say that these pages show his aptitude for
  making simple things look difficult, they reveal also the meaning of
  life. They disclose to those living the humblest of lives that they
  may enter if they will—the door is ever open—to regions the highest
  and purest. ... If the book contained nothing else than some of the
  observations in the last chapters as to true pacifism and patriotism,
  it would make every reader its debtor.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p326 Jl 12 ‘17 1800w


=BOSSCHÈRE, JEAN DE=, il. Christmas tales of Flanders. il *$3 Dodd 398

  Popular Christmas tales current in Flanders and Brabant, translated by
  M. C. O. Morris, and spiritedly illustrated partly in color and partly
  in black and white by Jean de Bosschère.

  “The engaging color-work of Mr de Bosschère is full of brilliancy, and
  makes of this Christmas book a rich gift from a country now sorely
  stricken.”

       + =Lit D= 55:53 D 8 ‘17 50w

  “A very charming book for young people, and so interestingly
  illustrated that their elders will find it almost equally attractive.
  All the pictures have humor, dexterity, force, and appreciation of
  character.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:514 D 2 ‘17 70w

  “This handsome and well-illustrated book is one of the most attractive
  we have seen this season. ... Some of the drawings seem to us a little
  scratchy, but they will all be clear to a child. They lack the
  tortured straining after originality and the purposeful ugliness which
  modern art has occasionally thrust upon the nursery.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:sup10 D 8 ‘17 280w

         =Spec= 119:sup628 D 1 ‘17 330w

  “The stories are sometimes abrupt in their inconclusiveness; homely
  and almost entirely unromantic. Sometimes a disagreeable hint of
  cynicism obtrudes itself; but this may have been left on our minds by
  the association with M. de Bosschère’s illustrations. They are
  completely unsuited to their purpose.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p621 D 13 ‘17 200w


=BOSTWICK, ARTHUR ELMORE.= American public library. il *$1.75 (2c)
Appleton 020 17-17641

  This is a new edition, revised and brought up to date, of a book
  written by the librarian of the St Louis public library and first
  published seven years ago. “As a matter of mechanical necessity, no
  doubt, the revisions and additions have limited themselves to such
  changes as could be made, here and there, without requiring any
  considerable resetting or recasting of the pages, so that the former
  pagination is retained, except that two pages have been added to the
  index. The table of contents of the first edition has also been
  reprinted without change, though a few of its details do not apply to
  the new edition, and a few details in the new edition find no place in
  the reprinted table of contents. Among alterations made necessary by
  recent developments, several of importance arrest attention in the
  chapter on ‘The library and the state.’ A useful list of American
  library periodicals takes the place of the old list of library clubs.”
  (Dial)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:66 N ‘17

  “The only comprehensive manual in its special field.”

   + + — =Dial= 63:468 N 8 ‘17 220w


=BOTHWELL-GOSSE, A.= Civilization of the ancient Egyptians. (Through the
eye ser.) il *$2 (7c) Stokes 913.32 17-1644

  The motto of the series to which this book belongs is “Look and
  understand.” A publisher’s note has this to say of the purpose of
  the series: “Its central idea is the treatment of subjects of
  general interest in a plain manner, relying to a large extent on a
  profusion of illustration to elucidate the text.” There are over 150
  illustrations in the present volume, accompanied by descriptive
  text, with chapters on: The Egyptians, their temperament and
  domestic life; Education; Professions and occupations; Amusements;
  Architecture—pyramids and temples; Sculpture and painting;
  Science—engineering skill; Medicine; Science—astronomy; Government
  and laws; Religion; Literature.

  “Of value chiefly for its excellent illustrations.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:349 My ‘17

  “Special attention is given to ancient home life.”

       + =Pratt= p32 Jl ‘17 10w


=BOTTOME, PHYLLIS.= Derelict. il *$1.35 (2c) Century 17-14180

  “The derelict” is a story that has been running as a serial in the
  Century Magazine this year. It is a study of the situation that
  results from the efforts of a well-meaning young woman to rescue a
  girl from the underworld. Emily Dering, engaged to Geoffrey Amberley,
  intentionally throws her protégé in his way. It is part of her program
  for Fanny’s reform, and when the girl suddenly turns about and goes
  back to her old life, she of course does not understand the nobility
  of purpose that lay back of the act. The story, which is only a long
  short story, is followed by seven others, also reprinted from the
  Century: The liqueur glass; “Mademoiselle l’Anglaise”; An awkward
  turn; The syren’s isle; “Ironstone”; The pace; Brother Leo.

  “Of all the stories in this excellent collection of eight, ‘The
  liqueur glass’ seems to one reader at least by far the best—not only
  the best of these, but outstanding among the myriad output of the
  year.” F. A. G.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 530w

  “The things that pleased us in ‘The dark tower’ were its economy of
  utterance and its simple relation of a story whose characters made its
  telling worth while. In this connection the only story that is really
  worth the reader’s attention—judged by Phyllis Bottome’s own standard
  of work—is the title piece.”

     + — =Dial= 63:73 Jl 19 ‘17 100w

  “Miss Bottome’s manner is of the well-bred school, with a family
  resemblance to Mrs Wharton’s and Miss Sedgwick’s, her work has the
  finish and proportion which, in fiction as elsewhere, are the reward
  of the artist in contrast with the improvisator.”

       + =Nation= 105:370 O 4 ‘17 400w

  “A strong and piquant flavor of personality breathes from all her
  pages and gives to them a unique tang—something that is always a
  blessed thing to find in fiction of any sort.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:206 My 27 ‘17 720w

  “With one or two exceptions they have grim and tragic plot-ideas, but
  the author has a sense of humor and her art is of the finest. ‘The
  liqueur glass,’ for instance, might have been written by Edmond de
  Goncourt.”

       + =Outlook= 116:304 Je 20 ‘17 50w


=BOTTOME, PHYLLIS.= Second fiddle. il *$1.35 (2c) Century 17-28800

  “You know, a secretary is a kind of second fiddle. ... I like being a
  second fiddle.” So speaks Stella Waring, secretary for seven years to
  Professor Paulson, the great naturalist, and later to Mr Leslie
  Travers, expert accountant. Stella’s father was a dreamy antiquarian,
  and her mother a gentlewoman who “did not manage anything and when she
  was very unhappy said she was in tune with the infinite.” So the three
  girls, Eurydice, the “suppressed artist,” Cicely, who studied
  medicine, and Stella, had to fend for themselves. The story concerns
  itself mainly with the business life and the love affairs of Stella,
  more especially her affair with Sir Julian Verny, who is invalided
  home from the front.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:129 Ja ‘18

  “The tale is told with Miss Bottome’s customary fluency and charm:
  Stella stands out as the living and original characterisation of the
  book.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:491 D ‘17 190w

  “The chief charm of the story is in the telling—the dash, the sparkle,
  the ready humor, and the quick, fine understanding.” R. T. P.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 10 ‘17 1150w

  “It is a pity that Phyllis Bottome should waste her efforts on
  intellectual cream-puffs. A great deal of the psychology in ‘The
  second fiddle’ is accurate; but where could such happy endings
  possibly evolve? And how could one lovely, normal girl be all but
  surrounded by a set of caricatures.”

       — =Dial= 63:463 N 8 ‘17 110w

  “For the human development of ‘The second fiddle’ is based upon the
  sound, and often neglected, psychological fact that sympathy is not
  pity; that out of love and understanding—and out of nothing else in
  the world—do human beings raise their hurt comrades from pain and
  defeat to human brotherhood and sanity and triumph once more. That is
  the theme of ‘The second fiddle.’ And it is that that lifts the book
  from the conventionality of its incident and the mere pleasantness of
  its romance to a place among novels that are not only readable but
  worth reading.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:452 N 4 ‘17 670w

  “The great charm of the book—and its charm is not insignificant—lies
  in the unfolding of Stella’s personality, in delicious bits of humor
  tucked in like little surprises, and in most human love-making!” Doris
  Webb

       + =Pub W= 92:1374 O 20 ‘17 330w

  “The author supplies a certain note of pathos, offset by humor and
  pointed wit.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 250w


=BOUCHIER, EDMUND SPENSER.= Sardinia in ancient times. *$1.75 (4c)
Longmans 937.9 17-23952

  Sardinia merits attention, the author says, “alike for the primitive
  civilization of which the architectural and artistic remains are
  numerous and varied, for the flourishing Phœnician colonies which
  fringed the southern and western shores during several centuries, and
  for the proof here given of the stimulating and consolidating effect
  of Roman rule even amidst unpromising surroundings.” His account is
  carried down to the year 600, with chapters devoted to: The
  prehistoric age; Legendary history; The Carthaginian supremacy;
  Natural products and commerce; The republican province; Carales; The
  early empire; The chief cities of Sardinia; The later empire;
  Architecture and the arts; Religion.

  “Mr Bouchier has essayed the difficult task of writing a technical
  work in a popular style. The scholar will long for more critical
  apparatus, the layman will be bewildered by scientific details. Still
  both will find much that is worth while and valuable.” J. J. V.

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:208 O ‘17 400w

         =Ath= p419 Ag ‘17 40w

         =Cath World= 105:830 S ‘17 100w

  “Mr Bouchier admits the insufficiency of materials, so far, for any
  complete history, but he does succeed in giving a fairly connected
  idea of the fortunes of the island and its people in rough outline.”

     + — =Nation= 105:267 S 6 ‘17 250w

  “Mr Bouchier is doing useful work in writing monographs on the Roman
  provinces. After dealing with Spain and Syria, he has now summarized
  all that is known of ancient Sardinia.”

       + =Spec= 118:733 Je 30 ‘17 110w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p206 My 3 ‘17 500w


=BOULTING, WILLIAM.=[2] Giordano Bruno; his life, thought, and
martyrdom. *$3.75 Dutton 17-13237

  “It is not an exaggeration to say that in the writings of Giordano
  Bruno, one of the most amazingly fertile of thinkers, are to be found
  the germs of all subsequent vital philosophic thought. ... [In this
  biography] there are chapters that deal with his birth and parentage,
  with his boyhood, and with his monastic life in the south; there is a
  satisfactory account of his early reading (in the classics, in the
  scholastics, in the Neo-Platonists, and in the writings of
  contemporary thinkers) and of his first wanderings, which were an
  inevitable consequence of that reading; a chapter is devoted to an
  analysis of the budding philosophy of his early works; the renewed
  wanderings are recounted; the seven books printed in London are
  explained; the further travels are retold: the final books are
  outlined; and then the trial and death of the restless and daring
  thinker are described.”—Am Hist R

  “Notable is this book, not only because of its subject, but also
  because unmistakably its preparation and writing have been a work of
  solicitude of the heart as well as solicitude of the mind. The book is
  admirable both in its plan and in its execution. The usefulness of the
  book would have been greatly increased had it been provided with a
  critical bibliography of the literature relating to Bruno.” E: M.
  Hulme

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:376 Ja ‘18 900w

  “The volume contains a useful analysis of Bruno’s principal writings.”

       + =Ath= p483 O ‘16 100w

         =Boston Transcript= p10 O 13 ‘17 880w

  “Though we believe that Bruno’s philosophy has never before been so
  well interpreted, so popularized, in English as by Mr Boulting, it is
  the excellence of the portrait of the man himself which distinguishes
  this biography.”

     + — =N Y Times= 23:5 Ja 6 ‘18 950w

         =Spec= 117:sup605 N 18 ‘16 1850w

  “In our judgment Dr Boulting’s scholarship is scarcely equal to the
  task he has undertaken. He is laborious, painstaking, widely read in
  the literature both ancient and modern which is germane to his
  subject, and he is inspired with a genuine though somewhat wayward
  enthusiasm for it; but alike in his appreciation of Bruno’s thought
  and in his presentation of its relations to the thought of other
  thinkers, both before and after, he seems to us to be wanting in the
  ‘judicium’ and the restraint of the true scholar.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p484 O 12 ‘16 1700w


=BOURNE, RANDOLPH SILLIMAN.= Education and living. *$1.25 (3c) Century
370.4 17-13424

  Brief papers reprinted from the New Republic. Mr Bourne is author of a
  work on “The Gary schools.” He is also one of those disciples of John
  Dewey who are engaged in spreading the Dewey ideals of education
  thruout the land. They view education, not as a preparation for life,
  but as identical with living. Among the subjects under discussion are:
  Education and living; The self-conscious school; The wasted years;
  Puzzle—education; Learning out of school; Education in taste;
  Universal service and education; The schools from the outside; What is
  experimental education? Communities for children; Really public
  schools.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:427 Jl ‘17

         =Cleveland= p108 S ‘17 30w

  “The fairest, the most impartial, description of the numerous
  educational experiments now making in America. His marshalling of them
  is impressive; his review of them, concise, lucid, constructive. One
  may therefore assert that ‘Education and living’ is the best handbook
  for teachers that has thus far appeared. The only serious fault to be
  found with this book is that it is either too comprehensively titled
  or too exclusive in confining itself almost entirely to the grammar
  and the high schools. Furthermore, the author is too brief and cursory
  in his treatment of the colleges.” Bayard Boyesen

     + — =Dial= 63:156 Ag 30 ‘17 1000w

       + =Ind= 91:108 Jl 21 ‘17 100w

         =R of Rs= 56:440 O ‘17 40w

  “Mr Bourne has made some searching analyses of our imperfect education
  system. But he has allowed himself to echo many innuendoes neither
  convincing nor entirely pertinent.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 22 ‘17 800w


=BOUTROUX, ÉMILE.=[2] Contingency of the laws of nature; tr. by Fred
Rothwell. *$1.50 Open ct.

  “This essay was presented as a thesis for a doctor’s degree to the
  Sorbonne by its author in 1874. Nearly fifty years have passed, and
  now it is brought into English with a special preface by the author.
  The two leading thoughts of the work may be stated in the language of
  its author. ‘The first is that philosophy should not confine itself to
  going over and over again the philosophical concepts offered us by the
  systems of our predecessors with the object of defining and combining
  them in more or less novel fashion: a thing that happens too
  frequently in the case of German philosophers.’ Philosophy, he holds,
  should keep itself in touch with the realities of nature and life; it
  should be grounded on the sciences. So he has sought to replace a
  philosophy essentially conceptual by one moulded upon reality.
  Secondly, to his mind all systems can be divided among three types,
  materialistic, idealistic and dualistic. He says: ‘These three points
  of view have this in common: they force us to regard as a chain of
  necessity, rendering illusory all life and liberty.’”—Boston
  Transcript

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 25 ‘17 430w

  “As long as M. Boutroux criticizes the assumption of an ultimate
  mechanical explanation of phenomena he is contributing to our
  understanding of experience. When he substitutes rather arbitrarily
  another ultimate he makes his argument lose most of its point.” J. R.
  K.

     + — =Int J Ethics= 28:294 Ja ‘18 310w

  “This book abounds in shrewd insights and in keen criticisms of the
  half-baked monistic philosophy which underlies current popular
  science.” M. R. C.

     + — =New Repub= 13:191 D 15 ‘17 1200w


=BOWEN, MARJORIE, pseud. (MRS GABRIELLE MARGARET [CAMPBELL] COSTANZO).=
William, by the grace of God. 2d ed *$1.50 Dutton 18-83

  “A story of the rising of the Netherlands against Philip II of Spain.
  The siege and relief of Leyden, and the assassination of William of
  Nassau, are prominent episodes; and there are glimpses of the massacre
  of St Bartholomew and the death of Coligny.”—Ath

  “Tedious and lacking in ‘go.’ The Spanish governor of the Netherlands
  was Luis de Requesens, not ‘Resquesens.’”

       — =Ath= p479 O ‘16 80w

  “Whatever her faults of taste, this writer shows a power of projecting
  character which is rare among her fellow-workmen in this field.”

     + — =Nation= 105:487 N 1 ‘17 300w

  “One cannot quite escape the feeling that the brave William, the
  cunning Philip, have been taken out of archives, dusted off, and
  dressed up into fiction, the former in white, the latter in black. But
  aside from this common failing of historical novels, ‘William, by the
  grace of God’ is a book of more than average veracity and vividness.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:sup16 N 17 ‘17 150w

  “A picture of the times and an historical narrative rather than a
  novel.”

         =N Y Times= 22:388 O 7 ‘17 260w

  “The narrative is given frankly in the form of a romance, not a
  history. The author has already treated several historical personages
  by this method and is unusually successful in recreating the
  atmosphere of past times.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:550 N ‘17 50w

  “An admirable novel.”

       + =Spec= 117:773 D 16 ‘16 10w


=BOWER, B. M., pseud. (BERTHA MUZZY SINCLAIR) (MRS BERTRAND WILLIAM
SINCLAIR).= Lookout man. il *$1.35 (1½c) Little 17-22305

  “A worse than foolish escapade in the environs of Los Angeles, and
  Jack Corey suddenly finds himself in danger of arrest for
  manslaughter. His flight to Feather River canyon in northern
  California follows. He secures the position of ‘lookout man’ on the
  summit of Mount Hough, and here, in the little house of glass, the
  ‘observatory’ for forest fires ... he starts upon a new life. ... Then
  fate ... sends Marion Rose to him. Her coming to the Toll house had
  been almost as sudden, as had been his to the great peak towering
  above it. Only in her case the haste was legitimate. An unexpected
  opportunity to share with friends a certain mining claim, which is of
  course to bring wealth to them all. ... She and Jack become
  ‘comrades.’ And indeed Marion proves herself a real one, when the
  ‘lookout man’s’ identity being discovered, a peculiar complication
  develops.”—Boston Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:62 N ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 350w

         =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 50w

  “A pleasant, entertaining little story.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:318 Ag 26 ‘17 350w


=BOWER, B. M., pseud. (BERTHA MUZZY SINCLAIR) (MRS BERTRAND WILLIAM
SINCLAIR).= Starr, of the desert. il *$1.35 (2c) Little 17-13075

  It was her father who sent Helen May down into the desert to herd
  goats. He was worried about Helen May’s health and all neglectful of
  his own. The doctor had ordered a change of climate and out-of-door
  life for the girl, and the father, buying a relinquished claim in New
  Mexico, made arrangements to carry out the doctor’s orders. Then he
  died, and Helen May and her young brother, Vic, feel that his wishes
  must be complied with. They know nothing of desert life and less of
  goats, but they find a good friend in Starr. Starr is something of a
  mystery for a time. He is really a secret service man engaged in
  heading off a Mexican revolution. Circumstances make it appear to him
  that Helen May is involved in revolutionary plots, but this mistake,
  fortunately, is easily explained.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:452 Jl ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 460w

  “A thrilling tale.”

         =Ind= 90:474 Je 9 ‘17 40w

  “The machinery of the narrative creaks a bit at times, but the style
  is so far superior to that of the average performance in this kind
  that one may willingly consent to be fooled in the matter of plot.”

     + — =Nation= 105:246 S 6 ‘17 350w

       + =N Y Times= 22:190 My 13 ‘17 310w


=BOWERS, EDWIN FREDERICK.= Bathing for health; a simple way to physical
fitness. *$1 (4c) Clode, E: J. 613 17-8215

  The bath as a preventive and as a curative agent is the subject of
  this book. Contents: Civilization and the bath; Bathing and morality;
  Why man needs the bath; The bath tub route to health; Baths as “big
  medicine”; Cold baths and common sense; Bathing for beauty; Smoothing
  ragged nerve edges; Sea and surf bathing; Fomentations, cold
  compresses and wet packs; “Hydrotherapy”; Sunstroke, icy tubs and heat
  prostration; Turkish and Russian operations, etc.

         =St Louis= 15:173 Je ‘17 10w

  “Neither faddish nor extreme.”

       + =St Louis= 15:410 N ‘17 40w


=BOWERS, R. S.= Drawing and design for craftsmen. (Handcraft library) il
*$2 McKay 740 A17-1322

  The chapters of this book are so arranged as to form a series of
  consecutive lessons, beginning with a treatment of the simple
  principles of drawing and working up gradually to the application of
  principles in practical design for woodwork, glazing, stenciling,
  metalwork, etc. The illustrations, of which there are over 700, “have
  been prepared and selected with a view not only of elucidating
  elementary principles, but of providing a storehouse of motifs,
  suggestions, styles, and treatments of which the craftsman will be
  glad to avail himself.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:12 O ‘17

       + =Ath= p430 S ‘16 70w

  “His text abounds with practical hints and suggestions which should
  prove very helpful to the student.”

       + =Int Studio= 60:53 N ‘16 160w

         =Pratt= p30 O ‘17 20w

  “The book would be suitable for self instruction, would also offer
  suggestions to teachers of drawing and design.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 50w


=BOWERS, R. S., and others.= Furniture making. (Handcraft library) il
*$2 McKay 684 (Eng ed 16-10852)

  This book gives “designs, working drawings, and complete details of
  170 pieces of furniture, with practical information on their
  construction.” It is a book for the advanced workman, as it does not
  concern itself with the elementary processes of woodworking. These
  will be treated in a later volume of the series. There are over 1,000
  illustrations.

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 50w


=BOWIE, WALTER RUSSELL.= Master of the Hill: a biography of John Meigs.
il *$3 (3½c) Dodd 17-28879

  The biography of a schoolmaster. John Meigs was for thirty-five years
  head-master of the Hill school in Pottstown, Pennsylvania. His life
  story is here written by one who was associated with him first as a
  pupil and later as one of the teachers in the school. Contents:
  Schoolmaster and man; John Meigs’ ancestry, and his antecedents at the
  Hill; Boyhood and youth; The beginning of the venture; Lights and
  shadows; Ideals for the school; The making of men; The life within;
  Final achievements and a finished life; Victory.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:127 Ja ‘18

         =Boston Transcript= p7 N 10 ‘17 380w

  “The author has succeeded in making us glad that a man like John Meigs
  lived among us, and that he lives in this book. Doubtless this is in
  part due to the fact that Bowie is himself an old Hill boy and former
  Hill master as well, and brought to his task not only the authority of
  personal knowledge, but the ability to write well.”

       + =Nation= 105:667 D 13 ‘17 1000w

  “It is enough for us to say here that this book, written by one who
  was first his pupil and afterwards a teacher in his school is pervaded
  by his spirit of absolute sincerity. It is appreciative, warmly
  affectionate, even at times eloquently enthusiastic, but it is not
  indiscriminating.”

       + =Outlook= 118:31 Ja 2 ‘18 140w


=BOWMAN, ISAIAH.= Andes of southern Peru: geographical reconnaissance
along the seventy-third meridian. il *$3 (3c) Pub. for the Am.
geographical soc. of N.Y. by Holt 558 17-1921

  This work by the director of the American geographical society, is an
  outgrowth of the Yale Peruvian expedition of 1911, under the direction
  of Hiram Bingham. The author’s part in the expedition was the mapping
  of the country between Abancay and the Pacific, a stretch of two
  hundred miles. The book is divided into two parts. The first, Human
  geography, is devoted to native life, economic products, climate,
  etc.; the second to Physiography of the Peruvian Andes. There are
  seven topographic maps and many diagrams in addition to the noteworthy
  illustrations from photographs.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:294 Ap ‘17

  “The originality of thought and content, the brilliancy of style, the
  many original maps and diagrams, the wonderfully beautiful half-tone
  illustrations, all combine to make this work a noteworthy contribution
  to geographic science and to our knowledge of Peru.” G. B. Roorbach

       + =Ann Am Acad= 73:233 S ‘17 250w

  “Mainly scientific in its plan and purpose, this study of the
  mid-southern section of Peru makes a considerable appeal to general
  interests on account of the information it gives regarding the
  inhabitants of that region.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 24 ‘17 330w

  “While a physical geographer might be better equipped to make use of
  the valuable information collected in this book, there are many pages
  interesting to the casual reader.”

       + =Ind= 90:257 My 5 ‘17 50w

  “Mr Bowman has made repeated journeys in South America, of which,
  unfortunately, no sufficient account is given in the volume before us,
  though they have deservedly brought him a gold medal from the
  Geographical society of Paris. His explorations have thrown much new
  light on the Andes, long known but never so well described as in his
  book. A series of contoured maps by K. Hendricksen, topographer of the
  expedition, are cartographic oases in an uncharted desert.”

       + =Nation= 105:203 Ag 23 ‘17 1150w

       + =N Y Times= 22:273 Jl 22 ‘17 110w

         =R of Rs= 55:555 My ‘17 130w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 200w


=BOWMAN, JAMES CLOYD=, ed. Promise of country life. *$1 Heath 808
16-12269

  “‘The promise of country life,’ is the attractive title of a book of
  descriptions and narrations to be used as models in an agricultural
  course in English. ... The work has been carefully planned. The author
  says in his preface: ‘The first group of selections has to do with the
  type of individual who is most at home in the country. The second
  treats of the pleasures which may be found in solitude; the third
  shows how various types of men have found enjoyment in a rural
  environment; the fourth contrasts life in the city with life in the
  country; still another describes man’s mastery over the crops of the
  fields and domestic animals.’ ... The selections have been chosen from
  such well-known writers as John Burroughs, Hamlin Garland, James Lane
  Allen, Corra Harris, Guy de Maupassant, and Lyoff N. Tolstoi.”—School
  R

  “Good for general reading and for high-school libraries that would not
  have many of the authors represented.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:255 Mr ‘17

  “A book of this sort may well exercise a real influence in opening the
  eyes of young people to the real opportunities and genuine charm of
  country life.”

       + =Educ R= 54:208 S ‘17 50w

       + =Ind= 87:232 Ag 14 ‘16 40w

  “In his effort to appeal to farm boys, Mr Bowman has happily broadened
  his appeal to American boys and girls. The selections, without being
  erudite, are full of the call of the woods and the by-lanes and the
  out-of-doors.”

       + =School R= 25:68 Ja ‘17 350w

  Reviewed by E. F. Geyer and R. L. Lyman

       + =School R= 25:610 O ‘17 270w

  “In schools and on the country book shelf it is worthy of permanent
  place.” H. W. F.

       + =Survey= 38:175 My 19 ‘17 110w


=BOWSER, THEKLA.= Britain’s civilian volunteers. il *$1.50 Moffat 361
17-14033

  “Some eight years ago there was started in England an organization
  known for short as the V. A. D. Now at the time, members of the
  Volunteer aid detachments who took seriously their training in
  hospital work and canteen service were looked on with mild amusement.
  But when August, 1914, came there was the nucleus of that tremendous
  body of workers on whom the Red cross and the medical staff have
  depended and without whom their work could not have been done. ... The
  book is an unadorned account of the many sorts of work done in France,
  Belgium and Great Britain by these volunteer workers, men and
  women.”—Ind

         =A L A Bkl= 14:52 N ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 40w

  “Some such methods will surely develop here, in making practical the
  immense and as yet not wholly regulated force of our National league
  for woman’s service and other civilian organizations. ... The pages
  have the intense interest that belongs to the story of great
  endeavor.”

       + =Ind= 90:436 Je 2 ‘17 350w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:68 O ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p38 O ‘17 30w

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:220 Jl ‘17 50w


=BOYAJIAN, ZABELLE C.=, comp. Armenian legends and poems. il *$8 Dutton
(*21s Dent, London) 891.54

  “Miss Boyajian has gathered examples of genuine Armenian art and
  literature, to show the world what contributions the horribly
  persecuted people of that country have made for its enrichment. Lord
  Bryce prefaces the work with a brief encomium of their poetry and
  painting, which he rightly says is less known than it deserves to be.
  This hint at its value is supplemented by a somewhat extended chapter
  by Aram Raffi on the epics, folk-songs, and medieval poetry of
  Armenia. Miss Boyajian, the daughter of an Armenian clergyman formerly
  British vice consul at Diarbekir and herself an artist of fine
  abilities, furnishes a dozen illustrations reproduced in soft and
  exquisite colors.”—Boston Transcript

       + =Ath= p541 N ‘16 100w

  “Examples of folk-songs, medieval poems and lyrics by various
  nineteenth century authors are included, some of them from Alice Stone
  Blackwell’s versions. ... Most of the translations are made by Miss
  Boyajian, who dedicates the volume to ‘The undying spirit of Armenia,’
  and who devotes all the profits from its sale to the cause of her
  countrymen. It is a worthy cause and magnificently upheld.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 7 ‘17 650w

       + =Int Studio= 61:99 Ap ‘17 280w

       + =Sat R= 122:sup5 D 9 ‘16 530w

         =Spec= 117:sup684 D 2 ‘16 210w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p148 My 29 ‘17 1400w


=BOYD, ERNEST AUGUSTUS.= Contemporary drama of Ireland. *$1.25 (2½c)
Little 822 17-7566

  This is one of the first volumes to be issued in the Contemporary
  drama series, edited by Richard Burton. The aim of the series is to
  give in separate volumes an account of the contemporary drama in
  various countries. In this volume, devoted to Irish drama, the
  dramatic movement is shown to be related not only to the literary
  revival in Ireland, but also to the general revival of interest in the
  theatre which stirred the later nineteenth century. There are chapters
  on: The Irish literary theatre; Edward Martyn; The beginnings of the
  Irish national theatre; William Butler Yeats; The impulse to folk
  drama: J. M. Synge and Padráic Colum; Peasant comedy: Lady Gregory and
  William Boyle; Later playwrights; The Ulster literary theatre; Summary
  and conclusion. A bibliography is given in an appendix.

  “Of more use to study clubs than to the casual reader. Has a good
  bibliography with dates, and a full index.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:340 My ‘17

  “The only thing that is lacking in this little book is the element of
  style. To write without eloquence about such masters of the art of
  eloquence as Lord Dunsany, John M. Synge, and William Butler Yeats is
  to cheat the reader of the better half of criticism.” Clayton Hamilton

     + — =Bookm= 45:193 Ap ‘17 300w

         =Boston Transcript= p9 F 21 ‘17 700w

       + =Dial= 62:484 My 31 ‘17 370w

  “In his review of Yeats’s works Mr Boyd is eulogist and apologist
  rather than critic, but he writes with a keen appreciation of his
  indisputable poetic gifts. In a kindly but just and searching
  criticism of Lady Gregory’s plays, Mr Boyd, while fully recognizing
  the value of her zeal and ability to the cause which she has
  championed, rightly concludes that the majority of them are not
  important contributions to literary drama or in harmony with the aims
  of a national theatre.” J. R. Towse

       + =Nation= 105:546 N 15 ‘17 1000w

  “Mr Boyd’s book, for all that, makes a valuable guide to the American
  or English reader, whose standards and preconceptions are always
  voiced in the judgments of the author. One cannot help feeling that
  importance is being given to things really little, and that Mr Boyd
  planned a definitive handbook and executed it accordingly.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:225 Je 10 ‘17 260w

         =Pratt= p36 O ‘17 40w

  “It is to be regretted that in dealing with such a fascinating topic
  he cramped himself by a somewhat dry and commonplace style, but even
  with this handicap the work is of some value for the information it
  furnishes regarding a noteworthy dramatic movement. As a popular
  hand-book it fulfils its function satisfactorily.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 12 ‘17 450w


=BRACQ, JEAN CHARLEMAGNE.= Provocation of France. *$1.25 Oxford 944.08
16-24205

  “Professor Bracq, holding the chair of French literature at Vassar
  college, has undertaken, in this interesting little volume, to tell in
  simple language the story of the provocation and aggression to which
  France has been subjected by the German government in the last half
  century, and to describe the general dignity, calmness, and good faith
  with which the French republic has met this course on the part of
  Germany. ... Professor Bracq is himself in close sympathy with the
  pacifist movement in France, of which the Baron d’Estournelles has
  been the leader.”—N Y Times

  “By the author of ‘France under the republic’ (A L A Catalog
  1904-1911). ... From the French point of view, of course, but
  temperate and supplied with reference to sources.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:393 Je ‘17

  “Professor Bracq writes temperately of Germany’s treatment of his
  country, but nevertheless with tense feeling.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 24 ‘17 140w

  “There is no doubt of the enthusiasm and patriotism of Dr Bracq, but
  it is a question whether he might not have served his end better had
  he observed more reticence of feeling and precision of phrasing.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:696 Ag ‘17 150w

       + =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 40w

       + =Ind= 90:382 My 26 ‘17 50w

  “For all the facts he cites he gives careful reference to his sources,
  and any student can, if he wish, verify the author’s statements.
  Professor Bracq has given in a couple of hundred pages an excellent
  summary of the history of the last half century.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:10 Ja 14 ‘17 240w

  “Prof. Bracq’s book, though written from the French point of view, may
  be recommended to those who wish to know historical facts.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Mr 1 ‘17 450w


=BRADFORD, GAMALIEL.= Naturalist of souls; studies in psychography.
*$2.50 (4c) Dodd 804 17-24248

  Mr Bradford gets the title for his book from Sainte-Beuve’s
  description of himself: “I am a naturalist of souls.” “He discusses in
  the first chapter the psychographic method in the writing of
  biography, endeavors to define what it is and what it is not,
  considers the material to be used and the manner of using it, and
  defines psychography briefly as ‘the condensed, essential, artistic
  presentation of character.’ It differs, he explains, from ordinary
  biography in that it discards the chronological method of treating its
  subject’s life and uses the material facts as a means of illuminating
  the inner life.” (N Y Times) Contents: Psychography; The poetry of
  Donne; A pessimist poet (Leopardi); Anthony Trollope; An odd sort of
  popular book (Burton’s “Anatomy of melancholy”); Alexander Dumas; The
  novel two thousand years ago; A great English portrait-painter (Hyde,
  earl of Clarendon); Letters of a Roman gentleman (Pliny, the younger);
  Ovid among the Goths; Portrait of a saint (Francis of Sales). The
  author states that only the last three portraits “are elaborate
  specimens of psychography working consciously.”

  “Using the same delightful method which made his ‘Portraits of women’
  a joy to readers of discriminating taste, Mr Bradford analyzes and
  reveals further personality.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:85 D ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p7 S 12 ‘17 850w

  “Delightful studies with a strong appeal to every thoughtful reader.”

       + =Cath World= 106:540 Ja ‘18 270w

  “Mr Bradford writes the sort of essay that is born of enthusiasm and
  affection. He is a humble and not unsuccessful follower of the great
  unconscious psychographers, Tacitus, Saint Simon, Sainte-Beuve, and,
  though he is not mentioned as such, R. L. S.”

       + =Dial= 63:459 N 8 ‘17 350w

  “As psychographic studies they are arranged with a sort of crescendo
  effect. ... Mr Bradford’s exposition of his developed method of
  writing biographical studies throws light upon and adds interest to
  the long series of such portraits he has published, first in the
  Atlantic Monthly and afterward in book form.”

         =N Y Times= 22:356 S 23 ‘17 670w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:741 N ‘17 60w


=BRADLEE, FRANCIS B. C.= Eastern railroad. il *$2 Essex inst. 385
17-21687

  “Much local history that is of more than local interest is to be
  found in ‘The Eastern railroad: a historical account of early
  railroading in eastern New England’ by Francis B. C. Bradlee. The
  author has not merely collected the details of the successive stages
  of financing and organization through which the Eastern railroad
  passed between 1836 and 1884, when it was merged with its old rival,
  the Boston and Maine. He gives these necessary facts both in the
  text and in several tables in the appendix. But he also is at pains
  to picture the conditions of early railroading and to show the
  impression, if one may call it such, that the railroad made upon the
  community at various periods.”—Springf’d Republican

  “The illustrations of the old-time locomotives and tickets add much to
  the attractiveness of the book.” J. B. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 7 ‘17 630w

  “This volume makes no pretense at being a formal history, and may
  perhaps be described as a collection of interesting notes. Many
  amusing incidents are to be found in Mr Bradlee’s pages, and these
  throw light on manners of the past quite as much as on railroading.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 800w


=BRADLEY, ALICE.= Candy cook book. il *$1 (2½c) Little 641.5 17-13104

  A preliminary discussion of candy ingredients and necessary equipment
  is followed by recipes for home-made candies, arranged in chapters as
  follows: Uncooked candies; Assorted chocolates; Fudges; Fondant
  candies; Caramels and nougatines; Pulled candies; Hard candies; Glacés
  and pulled flowers; Crystallized fruits; Fruit and gelatine candies;
  Dried fruits and nuts; Meringues and macaroons; Popcorn candies;
  Decorated candies and cakes; Favors.

  “Discusses the food value of candy and gives sources of materials.
  Well illustrated.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:432 Jl ‘17

       + =Pratt= p24 O ‘17 30w

  “The work is compiled with the care of an expert cookery book and
  appears to be reliable in all respects.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 29 ‘17 170w


=BRADLEY, WILLIAM ASPENWALL.=[2] Garlands and wayfarings. *$1.50 Mosher
811 17-25839

  “William Aspenwall Bradley has composed extremely artistic verse in
  ‘Garlands and wayfarings.’ His muse carries him everywhere, from a
  literary consideration to Jean Moreas and appreciations of nature, to
  a tribute to Jane Addams and some graphic pictures of sunset on the
  Connecticut. The various moods mirrored in the verses, however, are
  all those of a lover of beauty.”—Springf’d Republican

  “His is at all times a courteous and gracious muse, vivid, clear and
  sweet. She deems it by far a more attractive appearance to be dressed
  in a linen suit with exquisite trimmings than in the sinuous silk of
  her modern sisters, suggestive and alluring in every movement. No, in
  ‘Garlands and wayfarings’ are the fruits of a ripe culture, a love of
  beauty and art for their own sake, an idyllic sensibility to nature
  and a classic sympathy with the spirit of life.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 31 ‘17 1000w

  “His work is always that of a poet to whom the English language has
  revealed its secret of rich, lyrical expressiveness.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 370w


=BRADLEY, WILLIAM ASPENWALL.= Old Christmas, and other Kentucky tales in
verse. *$1.25 Houghton 811 17-25830

  Some four years ago, Mr Bradley, a Connecticut author, contracted
  “mountain fever” while exploring the Kentucky Cumberlands and other
  parts of the southern Appalachian system, and remained there nearly
  six months, getting acquainted with “the life and character of the
  mountain people.” This volume, containing seventeen poems, is the
  result. “The stories,” says the author, “which I have attempted to
  tell are in no sense offered as generally representative of mountain
  life. ... All I have tried to do is to invest each story with as much
  as possible of the peculiar color and atmosphere of mountain life.”
  (Preface)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:119 Ja ‘18

  “A reading of these Kentucky tales has made me think of the nearness
  in his accomplishment of an indigenous Americanism, racy, humorous,
  pathetic, rich in local color, and characterization, more like Mark
  Twain than anything we have had in American verse.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 O 27 ‘17 1700w

  “It cannot be pretended that this is a poetry of a high order; but Mr
  Bradley, in adapting to his use the life of the Kentucky
  mountain-folk, has hit upon extremely interesting material; he has
  given us some excellent stories, told in the folk-language, with many
  quaintnesses of idiom, and, on the whole, with the simplicity and
  economy that makes for effect.” Conrad Aiken

     + — =Dial= 63:454 N 8 ‘17 180w

  “It is an interesting book, a contribution to our knowledge of our
  fellow citizens as well as a piece of creative writing. Mr Bradley
  makes his readers know the Cumberlands better than Mr Masters made
  them know Spoon River—and like them infinitely better.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 N 17 ‘17 700w

  “The interest and the value of the book lie, as do that of the Russian
  ethnographical novel, in its folk aspect.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:24 Ja 20 ‘18 870w

  “They are picturesque, and full of color and atmosphere.”

         =R of Rs= 57:106 Ja ‘18 160w

  “For the most part he has tried to duplicate in verse the
  peculiarities of speech and simile that the Kentucky mountaineers use
  in conversation. Following this plan, he tells their really poetical
  stories in a truly native vein.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 N 2 ‘17 330w


=BRADY, CYRUS TOWNSEND.= “By the world forgot”; a double romance of the
East and the West. il *$1.40 (2c) McClurg 17-25243

  On the morning of his wedding day, Derrick Beekman is shanghaied onto
  a vessel bound for the South seas. The man responsible for the deed is
  his best friend, George Harnash, who also loves Stephanie Maynard and
  is loved by her in return. But of this Beekman knows nothing when he
  comes to his senses in the hold of the “Susquehanna,” altho later the
  words of a dying mate, give him a clue. The steamer is wrecked and
  Beekman is cast upon an isolated volcanic island, inhabited by the
  descendants of early Dutch explorers. One of these is Truda, a girl of
  wondrous beauty who promptly makes him forget the woman he was to have
  married. An earthquake shatters the island and a tidal wave washes the
  lovers out to sea, to be rescued by the yacht that the Maynards and
  the repentant Harnash have sent in search of the missing man.

  “As usual Dr Brady’s characters stand out boldly for what they are,
  some of them strong even in their weakness, his drawing of the two
  principal women actors being a particularly pleasing series of pen
  pictures.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 5 ‘17 290w

  “Dr Brady kept life at a respectful distance when he wrote his latest
  book. Thus he has given that part of the public who is avid for novels
  of adventure an exciting volume.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:465 N 11 ‘17 330w


=BRADY, CYRUS TOWNSEND.= When the sun stood still. il *$1.35 Revell
17-12713

  “For the period of his new story Dr Brady has chosen the time when the
  various tribes of Israel, under the leadership of Joshua, were busily
  at work conquering the lands and cities of the Canaanites. The story
  begins when its hero, Dodai, son of Ahoah, a prince of the tribe of
  Benjamin, goes with Salmon of the tribe of Judah as a spy to the city
  of Jericho. ... The tale concludes with the conquest of Gibeon. The
  biblical narrative on which Dr Brady’s novel is founded gives abundant
  opportunity for color and for dramatic effects.”—N Y Times

       + =Dial= 63:74 Jl 19 ‘17 100w

  “The historical setting of this new book by Dr Brady is far enough
  back to take on the appearance of a beautiful picture, brilliant,
  oriental, and engrossing. ... Dr Brady’s association with
  moving-pictures has accentuated his tendency to melodrama, but he is
  always interesting.”

     + — =Lit D= 54:1857 Je 16 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Times= 22:218 Je 3 ‘17 200w


=BRAILSFORD, HENRY NOEL.= League of nations. *$1.75 Macmillan 341
17-19730

  “The volume discusses calmly and dispassionately pretty nearly all the
  problems which this war has raised. But it is primarily concerned with
  the scheme for a League of nations associated with Mr Taft to form a
  guarantee of the peace of the world. Mr Brailsford as he proceeds in
  the discussion is led to consider ‘The problems of nationality,’ ‘The
  roads of the East,’ ‘Sea power,’ ‘Peace and change,’ ‘The future of
  alliances,’ ‘The economics of peace,’ ‘America and the League of
  peace’—in short, to examine pretty nearly the entire political
  horizon. ... At the close of the volume are printed two schemes, ‘The
  war settlement’ and ‘The League of nations,’ a plan for the
  organization of peace.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “This volume is well and thoughtfully written, and the author
  expresses himself with moderation.”

       + =Ath= p95 F ‘17 230w

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 O 6 ‘17 550w

  “Fully to appreciate the wisdom, insight, and dignity of Mr
  Brailsford’s book one should contrast it with the boiling mess of
  polemical literature which is still being brewed on both sides of the
  long fighting line. Mr Brailsford insults no one, impugns no one’s
  motives, seeks no merely nationalistic interpretation of this war, and
  does not attempt to assume the rôle of supreme judge between the
  nations.” W. E. Weyl

       + =Dial= 63:198 S 13 ‘17 850w

  “His review of world-politics is masterly. ... His book is certainly
  an excellent example of sane and persuasive political propaganda. It
  is more readable than a treatise and less ephemeral than a ‘war
  book.’ ... Mr Brailsford has shown in this book that the best
  tradition of English political thinking has not been altogether
  forgotten in the fog of emotionalism which the war has produced.” C.
  D. Burns

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:525 Jl ‘17 950w

  “It is manifestly impossible to summarize his book or to criticise
  in detail statements and views beside which stand queries. Time
  and again, however, the reviewer has found himself wondering how
  the author could refer to Germany with such mildness and
  consideration. ... There is a great deal to think of in this
  volume—it is by no means negligible—when one has once forced
  oneself to ignore the absence of generous and righteous wrath and
  of a disposition not to take the hand from the plough till the
  furrow is done.”

     – + =Nation= 105:407 O 11 ‘17 800w

  “Mr Brailsford’s book stresses much more than does Mr Harris’s the
  importance to Europe, even Europe’s great need, of America’s help in
  the organization of a league of nations. But he does not show a tithe
  of Mr Harris’s understanding of the difficulties that lie in the way
  of our entering that league, nor does he show understanding of the
  procedure by which such a national action would have to be
  accomplished. His mistake is the same as that which so many publicists
  in Europe make over and over again—the mistake of thinking that, since
  the president of the United States has large powers, he must be able
  to do as he likes without regard to what may be the opinions and
  wishes of the people. ... But that mishap at the beginning of his work
  does not in the least lessen the value of his very able discussion of
  the general subject.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:269 Jl 22 ‘17 470w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:701 O ‘17 40w

       + =St Louis= 15:358 O ‘17 50w

  “One who writes in form so reasonably earns consideration. He sees the
  weak points of his scheme and discusses them frankly. ... We are not
  insensible to the skill and sincerity of Mr Brailsford’s appeal, but
  we cannot see that there is any such dilemma as that on which he tries
  to impale us.”

         =Spec= 118:271 Mr 3 ‘17 1800w

  “Futurity is dark for him, as for most candid inquirers. The value of
  the book is that it will enlarge the horizon of most readers and will
  convince them that the formation of a League of nations is not so
  simple a matter, its consequences are not so clear, as its advocates
  often assume.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p75 F 15 ‘17 1050w


=BRAINERD, ELEANOR (HOYT) (MRS CHARLES CHISHOLM BRAINERD).= How could
you, Jean? il *$1.35 (1½c) Doubleday 17-28076

  Jean Mackaye, when she lost her money, not only could, but did take a
  position to do general housework, because cooking was the thing about
  which she knew the most. She went to live with the Bonners, two
  “elderly infants,” who badly needed a caretaker. Mr Bonner specialized
  on moths, while Mrs Bonner was oblivious to most things except the
  fauna, flora and folk lore of the Faroe islands. How Jean mothered the
  Bonners in the city and went with them to their farm on the
  Connecticut river, how well-to-do Teddy Burton fell in love with Jean
  at first sight, and in order to make her acquaintance, answered the
  Bonner’s advertisement for a man of all work on the farm, and what
  came of it all is pleasantly told by Mrs Brainerd.

  “Light, will be popular.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:130 Ja ‘18

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 60w

  “The tale moves so slowly that it seems rather the material for a
  short story than for a book of 337 pages. It shows, however, Mrs
  Brainerd’s known knack for light fiction.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:500 N 25 ‘17 220w

  Reviewed by Joseph Mosher

       + =Pub W= 92:1373 O 20 ‘17 550w


=BRAITHWAITE, WILLIAM STANLEY BEAUMONT=, comp. Anthology of magazine
verse for 1916, and year book of American poetry. $1.50 Gomme 811.08

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “A valuable year book for the small library.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:256 Mr ‘17

         =Cath World= 104:831 Mr ‘17 550w

  “Whether through inability or unwillingness, Mr Braithwaite seems no
  nearer learning that there can be little excuse for an anthology which
  does not select. ... This year’s volume, like last year’s, is for the
  most part filled with the jog-trot of mediocrity. One must wade
  through pages and pages of mawkishness, dulness, artificiality, and
  utter emptiness to come upon the simple dignity of Mr Fletcher’s
  ‘Lincoln’ (marred by a faintly perfumed close), or the subdued,
  colloquial tenderness of Mr Frost’s ‘Homestretch,’ or the sinister
  pattern of ‘The hill-wife,’ or Miss Lowell’s delicately imagined ‘City
  of falling leaves.’ ... There can be no question that had Mr
  Braithwaite composed his anthology from books, instead of from
  magazines, it could have been one thousand per cent better. ... It
  very seriously misrepresents—or, rather, hardly represents at all—the
  true state of poetry in America to-day.” Conrad Aiken

     – + =Dial= 62:179 Mr 8 ‘17 3700w

       + =Ind= 89:362 F 26 ‘17 130w

  “For a book of avowedly temporary interest, for which the literary
  horizon is quite as significant as the zenith, I think of no one who
  could hold the balance between age and novelty, between tradition and
  adventure, more impartially than Mr Braithwaite.” O. W. Firkins

     + — =Nation= 105:596 N 29 ‘17 450w

  “This is the fourth collection of American poetry which Mr Braithwaite
  has given us. In 1913 he found the current of what he calls
  ‘distinctive’ poetry running most strongly in the Smart Set. In 1914
  the Smart Set, Bellman, and Forum marked an equal wave, while in 1915
  the tide left all these high and dry and buried Poetry fathoms deep.
  This year we learn that ‘the radical influence of Poetry ... has
  waned,’ and it is the Poetry Review of America to which the capricious
  current turns.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:117 Ap 1 ‘17 550w

  “Decidedly the best of the series of his anthologies, or year-books,
  of American poetry so far published.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:437 Ap ‘17 300w

  “The tireless optimism of William Stanley Braithwaite persists as one
  of the disquieting literary phenomena of the times. It was the
  dominating note in his ‘Anthology of magazine verse and year-book of
  American poetry’ last year and the year before; it is even more
  rampantly dominant in the anthology for 1916. ... Mr Braithwaite is
  not responsible for the material he has to work with; undoubtedly he
  is responsible for what he thinks of it. It is therefore not Mr
  Braithwaite’s fault that his anthology can scarcely compare with such
  a work as the garnerings of ‘Georgian poetry,’ of which two volumes
  have appeared in England within the last five years.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 25 ‘17 600w


=BRAITHWAITE, WILLIAM STANLEY BEAUMONT.= Poetic year for 1916; a
critical anthology. *$2 Small 821 17-26654

  “The substance of the chapters in this book appeared in the columns of
  the Boston Evening Transcript, in a series of articles called ‘The
  lutanists of midsummer,’ and in the poetry reviews, which Mr
  Braithwaite contributed during 1916, to that paper.” (Acknowledgments)
  The book lacks an index, but the poets considered in each chapter are
  named in the table of contents.

  “It makes a helpful supplement to the year’s ‘Anthology of magazine
  verse.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:14 O ‘17

  “For the last five years the largest part of Mr Braithwaite’s work has
  been criticism. ... A too excessive appreciation has been the charge
  oftenest brought against his estimate of poets. ... In this book, Mr
  Braithwaite comes nearer than he ever has before to explaining to the
  public his ideals for American poetry and his personal attitude toward
  his work.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 4 ‘17 1200w

  “Though we must give credit to Mr Braithwaite for his labors, and even
  wonder at his industry, it is in the character of a collector and not
  that of a critic that his real value consists. A man may have
  sufficient taste—though Mr Braithwaite’s is by no means impeccable—to
  make a creditable collection of poems, and yet be incompetent to talk
  well about them; and hence a bare presentation of his favorites is
  much to be preferred to this latest method, where the poems are
  drowned in a sea of talk. For it is talk of the most insufferable
  sort, namely, that of a literary tea-party—emotional, vague, diffuse,
  grandiloquent, pompously platitudinous.”

       — =Cath World= 106:125 O ‘17 880w

  “At the very centre of his attitude toward poetry is the express
  belief that poetry is a sort of supernaturalism. ... In his present
  book, therefore, Mr Braithwaite puts a clear emotional emphasis on
  work which is characteristically sentimental. ... Consequently, such
  poets as are in the main realists, implicitly critical or analytical
  of life, or at the most neutrally receptive, are somewhat coolly
  entertained. ... Clearly, such an attitude reveals in Mr Braithwaite a
  very decided intellectual limitation. Must poetry be all marshmallows
  and tears?... The trouble with this book is at bottom, that while it
  has a rather intriguing appearance of being judicial, it is really,
  under the mask, highly idiosyncratic.” Conrad Aiken

       — =Dial= 63:202 S 13 ‘17 1300w

  “Mr Braithwaite, through himself or his proxies, says all manner of
  things, including some very good things. ... We all know that Mr
  Braithwaite keeps his praise in a ‘tank,’ and his drafts on that
  reservoir in the present volume are of characteristic liberality. As
  for standard English, he seems definitely to have severed his
  relationship with that archaism.” O. W. Firkins

     + — =Nation= 105:596 N 29 ‘17 400w

  “If he had called it an appreciative, not a critical, anthology no one
  could have quarreled with him. But the idea of separation, of a
  division between black and white, at least, is implicit in the word
  ‘criticism,’ and of such separation there is little trace in Mr
  Braithwaite’s purling periods.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:477 N 18 ‘17 900w

  “Among the especially pleasing chapters are ‘The idol-breakers,’ a
  discussion of free verse; ‘Clotho, Lachesis, Atropos & Co.,’ an
  appreciation of Edwin Arlington Robinson, and ‘Magic casements,’ which
  comments upon the poetry of Walter de la Mare, Lizette Woodworth Reese
  and Bliss Carman.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:217 Ag ‘17 230w


=BRANDES, GEORG MORRIS COHEN.= World at war; tr. by Catherine D. Groth.
*$2 (2½c) Macmillan 940.91 17-13334

  A collection of essays written before and during the war. The first is
  Foreboding, written in 1881, just as Bismarck’s state-socialistic
  ideas were being put into practice. “State-socialism, deprived of the
  fundamental principles of fraternity and self-government, is by the
  very nature of things a liberty-sapping doctrine,” wrote Brandes.
  Other papers written before the war are: The death of Kaiser
  Friedrich—1888—the death of the real German spirit; England and
  Germany—1905—the probability of war between them; German
  patriotism—1913—the glorification of war. Among those written after
  the outbreak of war are: The fundamental causes of the world war—1914;
  Different points of view on the war—1914; The great era—1915; Will
  this be the last war?—1915; The praise of war—1915; Protectors of
  small nations—1915; Ideals or politics—1916. Mr Brandes writes thruout
  as a neutral, and his open letter to M. Georges Clemenceau, reprinted
  in the volume, is a defense of Denmark’s neutrality.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:442 Jl ‘17

  “This book fails to get anywhere. It reflects the despondency of a
  brilliant man of the republic of letters who cannot comprehend the
  meaning of grave questions of the empire of the sword.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 8 ‘17 270w

         =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 60w

  “The book is evidence that the expert had better stick to his
  province. In the interpretation of literature many of us are anxious
  to hear what Dr Brandes has to say. As a publicist, he is quite
  frankly third-rate. His book is a rehash of old material and new
  comment which has no permanent value of any kind.” H. J. Laski

       — =Dial= 63:15 Je 28 ‘17 100w

         =Ind= 90:438 Je 2 ‘17 260w

  “A more disappointing book on the war has scarcely been written. It
  preaches a doctrinaire pacifism.”

       — =Lit D= 55:39 S 15 ‘17 270w

  “In spite of these cosmopolitan ties, or rather because of them, he
  does not hesitate to deal praise or blame to all of the belligerents
  with equal vigor, according to his idea of the dictates of justice. He
  lays down the law like an Old Testament prophet to German militarists
  as well as to M. Clemenceau and Mr William Archer.”

       + =Nation= 105:374 O 4 ‘17 240w

  “The book was completed before the United States had entered upon the
  contest, but we can infer what judgment would have been passed upon us
  by the unqualified statement that in 1898 we made war on Spain in
  order to secure the markets of Cuba. Of the combatant nations in this
  war, he credits none with any higher motive.”

         =N Y Times= 22:207 My 27 ‘17 780w

         =R of Rs= 56:214 Ag ‘17 80w

  “Dr Brandes touches with fearlessness and a burning sense of justice
  upon the various aspects of the war without allowing himself to be
  biased by any one side.” B. D.

       + =St Louis= 15:313 S ‘17 30w

  “Not all that he says will be acceptable to American readers, but in
  these days when it is essential for us to understand the war aims of
  all the belligerents, his book is at least of value in presenting
  opinion from a fresh point of view. ... Much of Dr Brandes’s reasoning
  is reversed by the revolution in Russia and the entrance of the United
  States into the war.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 21 ‘17 800w

  “He is not a builder. He analyzes—brilliantly, keenly, cuttingly, yet
  not unkindly; he does not construct. But it is a relief to read one
  book on the war which does not propose a final solution of the problem
  of war. Brandes comes nearest to it when he preaches the gospel of
  free trade. He persists in looking at the war as a Dane and a Jew
  naturally looks at the war—detachedly, with a bit of a sob and a bit
  of a sneer for both sides.” L: S. Gannett

       + =Survey= 38:360 Jl 21 ‘17 650w


=BRANFORD, BENCHARA.= Janus and Vesta; a study of the world crisis and
after. *$2 Stokes 901 (Eng ed 17-17103)

  “Mr Branford is well known in the educational world as a divisional
  inspector of the London county council. ... His zeal for universal
  vocational training is the expression of no narrow ideal of ‘national
  efficiency,’ but springs from a profound study of the conditions of
  development of the human spirit. It is, therefore, in complete harmony
  with his passionate conviction that a revival of university life
  (including a renaissance of the ‘wandering scholar’) is one of the
  most urgent needs of the time. ... In this connection Mr Branford
  argues with much force that universities have, during the modern
  epoch, largely forgotten their catholic mission, and have become, in
  many insidious ways, organs for the cultivation of national separatism
  and egotism. As a remedy for this state of things he presses the
  suggestion of a ‘world university,’ neutral, as the papacy is neutral,
  to be the guardian of the common spiritual interests of mankind, both
  western and eastern.”—Nature

  Reviewed by F. H. Giddings

         =Educ R= 56:167 F ‘18 550w

  “To one at least it seems a noble book, full of a wise and strong
  humanity, worthy to be classed with writings to which all men pay
  homage. Any scientific reader who will start with the chapter on
  ‘Science and occupation’ and follow whither the clue leads will
  probably reach much the same opinion. ... Though his ideas are often
  at first provocative, they are generally seen, on candid
  consideration, to be widely and solidly based. No one concerned with
  the problems of our State internal or external, can afford to neglect
  them.”

       + =Nature= 99:142 Ap 19 ‘17 570w

  “An impartial thinker, passionately eager to find a common
  understanding in every sphere of human life, not by ignoring
  difficulties, but by honestly attempting to reconcile them and
  transcend them.”

       + =Sat R= 123:85 Ja 27 ‘17 1300w

  “The arrangement of the book baffles patience and even curiosity.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 170w

  “It is only fair to the prospective reader to warn him that there are
  some passages in the book that seem reverberantly empty, and others
  whose content appears to be of the cloudiest; it will be for the
  reader himself to decide how far any apparent hiatus of meaning is due
  to failure of expression on the author’s part, how far to his own lack
  of intuition. This warning uttered, we commend the book
  whole-heartedly to the consideration of thoughtful people. Besides
  frequent nobility of thought, it shows much of the keen practicality
  that always characterizes the work of the true mystic.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p631 D 28 ‘16 1850w


=BRASSEY, THOMAS BRASSEY, 1st earl.= Work and wages; the reward of
labour and the cost of work. *$1.25 Longmans 331 16-9980

  “Lord Brassey describes this book on the title-page as ‘a volume of
  extracts, revised and partly re-written.’ They are taken partly from
  the original ‘Work and wages,’ which was published in 1872, and partly
  from other contributions of his to the subject, none of them later
  than 1879. They belong, therefore, to the past, and do not directly
  touch the most acute and recent labour questions of the moment.”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

         =Pratt= p11 Ja ‘17

  “This little book should be put in our bookcases side by side with
  Thorold Rogers, for it adds a great many facts to the ‘Six centuries
  of work and wages.’”

       + =Sat R= 122:43 Jl 8 ‘16 450w

  “The facts recorded and opinions expressed have a historical value,
  and some of them throw light on problems of perennial interest.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p183 Ap 20 ‘16 450w


=BRERETON, FREDERICK SADLIER.= On the road to Bagdad. il 6s Blackie,
London

  “The hero of this book has accomplishments beyond those of an ordinary
  subaltern. During his boyhood his guardian had taken him on many
  adventurous journeys in Mesopotamia, the pair frequently passing as
  natives, so perfect was their knowledge of the language and customs of
  the country. When the theatre of the great war was extended to
  Mesopotamia, the hero, as a member of the Expeditionary force, found
  himself detailed for all kinds of adventurous missions.”—Ath

  “The story gives a graphic picture of the perils and dangers of the
  Expeditionary force in this land (Mesopotamia) of desert and marsh.”

       + =Ath= p54 Ja ‘17 90w

  “Captain Brereton is an old hand at boys’ books, and he has mingled
  instruction and adventure well in this narrative.”

       + =Sat R= 122:sup6 D 9 ‘16 120w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p606 D 14 ‘16 260w


=BRESHKOVSKY, MME CATHERINE.= Little grandmother of the Russian
revolution; reminiscences and letters; ed. by Alice Stone Blackwell. il
*$2 (2c) Little 17-31436

  One of the first acts of Russia’s provisional government, after the
  revolution, was to liberate Madame Catherine Breshkovsky who for fifty
  years was not free from police surveillance and for thirty years was
  an exile in Siberia. Miss Blackwell has had access to three sources of
  information: the account of Madame Breshkovsky’s childhood and youth
  given to Doctor Abraham Cahan while she was in America in 1904; a
  description of her early prison experiences with an outline of her
  later life, published in the Outlook; and letters, many of them
  written to Miss Blackwell during the years since 1904. Miss Blackwell
  has put this material together chronologically, unfolding one of the
  most dramatic careers of all time. The work is valuable first as a
  human document; second, as a survey of the social problems that have
  sent so many missionaries of revolution among the peasants of Russia.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:127 Ja ‘18

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 24 ‘17 1600w

       + =Lit D= 55:38 D 8 ‘17 150w

  “Her viewpoint on the war is especially fine and valuable reading in
  this day; she is so deeply the lover of peace and of humanity, and so
  vigorous and clear-thinking an advocate of the carrying on of the war
  to a successful end for Russia and the Allies.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:584 D 30 ‘17 380w

  “The letters deserve to live, not only because of their individual
  charm and interest, but because taken together they give a beautiful
  reflection from one of the noblest souls who has lived in our time.
  They are cheerful, often playful, and they are full of human sympathy
  and human interest. There is in them not a single note of despair, of
  personal resentment, and rarely is there any evidence of indignation
  because of her own hateful and wicked treatment.”

       + =Outlook= 117:614 D 12 ‘17 230w

  “The skilful editing has plainly been a labor of love. Mme Breshkovsky
  appears in these intimate communications as a woman of unconquerable
  spirit, acutely sensitive to the sufferings and wrongs of the people,
  individually or in the mass, appreciative of the wrongs done to
  herself but much more concerned in acknowledging the kindnesses
  bestowed upon her by hosts of friends.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 1650w


=BRIDGES, ROBERT SEYMOUR.= Ibant obscuri; an experiment in the classical
hexameter. *$5 Oxford 873 17-14043

  “In this beautiful volume, one of the fairest products of the
  Clarendon press, Mr Bridges reprints his paraphrase in quantitative
  hexameters of part of Virgil’s sixth book and gives to the world for
  the first time a similar paraphrase of the scene between Priam and
  Achilles in the last book of the Iliad. His hexameters occupy the
  right-hand page, and in smaller type under each line is Virgil’s and
  Homer’s original, the Greek words being printed from an elegant fount
  in common use two centuries ago. On the left-hand page appear
  selections, each under its author’s name and date, framed in a
  cartouche, from the versions of previous translators, both in prose
  and verse, fifty-two Virgilian and twenty-eight Homeric, distinguished
  and undistinguished, curiosities like Gawin Douglas and Chapman, poets
  like Dryden, Pope, Cowper, and Morris, public men like Derby and
  Bowen, professional scholars in abundance, Conington, Mackail, Leaf,
  Simcox. Most important of all is Mr Bridges’s introduction, in which
  he explains clearly enough to all who can follow it the system upon
  which he has written these English hexameters.”—The Times [London] Lit
  Sup

  “An experiment of tranquil days, growing up around a friend’s paper on
  Virgil’s hexameter, lovingly and rather quaintly printed, has
  ‘loitered on,’ to appear in these tragic times. One may question
  whether the thing was worth doing, or worth printing when done; but
  hostile criticism is disarmed by the author’s frank abandonment of any
  claim.”

         =Nation= 105:147 Ag 9 ‘17 1600w

  “For our part, we see no special reason why any more hexameter verse,
  whether accentual or quantitive, should be written in the English
  tongue. The measure is, and remains, an exotic. In the accentual kind
  the most successful are the ‘Evangeline’ of Longfellow and the
  ‘Bothie’ of Clough; the former an exercise in romance, and the latter
  an experiment in fiction. One reads and enjoys them, but hardly
  desires successors.”

         =Sat R= 123:sup4 Mr 31 ‘17 1300w

       * =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p114 Mr 8 ‘17 2350w


=BRIGHAM, GERTRUDE RICHARDSON.= Study and enjoyment of pictures. il
*$1.25 (3c) Sully & Kleinteich 750 17-12954

  This work on pictures is divided into four parts: Principles of art
  criticism; Schools of painting; Pictures to see in America; Pictures
  to see in Europe. The author says, “About fifty of the most famous
  names in painting have been chosen for discussion, ranging from the
  renaissance down to the present day, unfolding the gradual progress of
  art, and indicating the motives which have influenced artists as great
  schools have arisen in one country after another. ... The
  illustrations have been selected from great artists, but of subjects
  not yet too well known, and hence they offer material for study.”
  There are sixteen illustrations. A short bibliography is provided at
  the end and there is an index.

  “The ‘Pictures to see in America’ will help as a quick survey of the
  chief works of art in the leading cities of the country.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:436 Jl ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p114 S ‘17 60w

       + =Dial= 64:81 Ja 17 ‘18 280w

  “Gertrude Richardson Brigham is instructor in the history of art at
  George Washington university. Her text is sensible but not always free
  from commonplaces.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 140w


=BRITTAIN, HARRY ERNEST.= To Verdun from the Somme; an Anglo American
glimpse of the great advance. *$1 (4c) Lane 940.91 17-12615

  The author visited France in company with James M. Beck, who
  contributes a foreword to the book. They spent some time with the
  British forces in the valley of the Somme, visited Verdun and were
  taken along the battle line of the French front, spending some time
  with the Russian soldiers who are fighting in France. There is no
  table of contents, but some of the chapter titles picked out at random
  are: The Somme; Behind the firing line; On the Peronne road; Tommy
  Atkins; French airmen; Through the Argonne; To the Russian lines;
  Rheims.

       + =Ath= p106 F ‘17 120w

  “Descriptive writers are divided into two classes, those who can paint
  a picture and those who can take you there. The book under discussion
  belongs in the first group. ... Mr Brittain leaves out most of the
  petty happenings. Genial, though his style is, one cannot help the
  feeling that he has written with his gloves on. The two accounts of
  his visits to Verdun and to Rheims are exceptions to this lack of
  generosity on the author’s part.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p14 Ap 7 ‘17 420w

       + =Ind= 90:298 My 12 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:680 O ‘17

         =Pratt= p38 O ‘17 10w

  “Mr Brittain treats his subject with a freshness and simplicity which
  will make a sure appeal to his readers. Possibly one of the most
  interesting divisions of the book is that which deals with a visit to
  the Russian lines, and gives a short account of a Russian ‘church
  parade,’ at which the congregation was representative of anywhere
  ‘from Korea to the Caucasus.’”

       + =Spec= 118:616 Je 2 ‘17 250w

  “Mr Brittain adds little to our knowledge of the war save his own
  sketchy views of the front as he found it, which are perhaps as
  valuable as those of other casual observers.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 23 ‘17 80w


=BRONNER, AUGUSTA FOX.= Psychology of special abilities and
disabilities. *$1.75 (2c) Little 371.9 17-11120

  The author has made a special study of two classes: (1) those of
  normal general ability who possess some special disability; (2) those
  below normal in general capacities who possess some special ability.
  At present, she says, all persons are divided into two classes: normal
  and defective. Children are so divided and are taught accordingly. No
  provision is made for those on the border line who might be better
  adjusted to society if account were taken of their particular
  abilities and defects. Contents: The problem; Methods of diagnosis;
  Differential diagnosis; Some present educational tendencies; Special
  defects in number work; Special defects in language ability; Special
  defects in separate mental processes; Defects in mental control;
  Special abilities with general mental subnormality; General
  conclusions. The author is assistant director of the Juvenile
  psychopathic institute of Chicago.

  Reviewed by L. S. Hollingworth

       + =Am J Soc= 23:128 Jl ‘17 400w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:39 N ‘17

  “This brief but scientific account of special abilities and
  disabilities should be read especially by the practicing teacher and
  the school officer.” E. B. Woods

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:788 N ‘17 300w

  “Apart from its title, which is altogether too general, this work may
  be unreservedly commended.”

       + =Dial= 63:411 O 25 ‘17 190w

  Reviewed by A. T. Poffenberger

       + =Educ= 55:71 Ja ‘18 700w

  “Public-school teachers will get something of benefit from the
  discussions of this book as well as those engaged in the technical
  work of mental examination.”

         =Pittsburgh= 22:833 D ‘17 70w

       + =El School J= 18:70 S ‘17 750w

         =Pratt= p11 Jl ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:139 My ‘17 10w

  “The book is very carefully worked out; the conscientious accounts of
  the work by others are more than mere references, and the theoretical
  discussion and the actual case-records go clearly hand in hand. A
  careful study of this book gives one the comfort that instead of the
  usual mass of generalities dealt out in books on education we have at
  last solid ground for sensible and well directed constructive work.”
  Adolph Meyer, M.D.

       + =Survey= 38:372 Jl 28 ‘17 270w


=BROOKE, HENRY BRIAN (KORONGO).= Poems; with a foreword by M. P.
Willcocks. il *$1.25 Lane 821 17-24096

  “Captain Brian Brooke lost his life at Mametz, leading his men with
  unabated courage in spite of wounds. In British East Africa he had a
  great name as a hunter ... and readers of the foreword by Miss
  Willcocks will easily see what a splendid man he was. His life was a
  poem, but he did not write poetry. His verses are like those of Adam
  Lindsay Gordon, free-and-easy records of ‘The call of the wild,’ close
  communings with nature, tales of fine horses, lonely souls, and
  sinners going right at the end, and downright denunciation of some of
  the humbugs of civilisation.”—Sat R

  “Brian Brooke lived poetry rather than wrote it. ... Judged by the
  critic’s standards, the verses are not poetry at all. ... The bulk of
  them first appeared in the Leader of South Africa and similar colonial
  papers. They are direct, sincere interpretations of pioneer life as he
  saw it, and they do for East Africa much what those of Robert Service
  have done for Alaska. Like Service’s they are largely narrative.” R.
  T. P.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 15 ‘17 760w

       + =Sat R= 123:412 My 5 ‘17 180w

  “‘That ride,’ a race for the border between an illicit trader and a
  German whom he has taken unawares, is an exciting piece of direct
  narrative that may rival ‘How we beat the favourite’—its obvious
  source of inspiration. The Masai called Brooke ‘Korongo’ or ‘The Big
  Man’; his friends called him ‘The Boy’—a more fitting epithet, for it
  is long since we read any verse that was so full of the glorious
  vigour and recklessness of youth.”

       + =Spec= 118:616 Je 2 ‘17 170w

  “In spite of the utter lack of literary craftsmanship—perhaps because
  of it to some extent—his rough ballads of African life are at times
  curiously impressive. ‘The song of the bamboos,’ for example, will
  always be remembered by those who have ever camped by a thicket.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p208 My 3 ‘17 670w


=BROOKS, ALDEN.= Fighting men. *$1.35 (2c) Scribner 17-21875

  The author, who has been war correspondent and American ambulance
  driver, and is now an officer in the French artillery, uses the
  knowledge he has gained of the national characteristics of the
  fighting countries as a background for a series of short stories. Full
  of the horrors of war, the first interest of these tales is yet
  psychological. Contents: The Parisian; The Belgian; The Odyssey of
  three Slavs; The man from America; The Prussian; An Englishman. Some
  of the series were first published in Collier’s in 1916. “The man from
  America,” which appeared in the Century Magazine for July, 1917,
  describes that type of American to whom liberty was dearer than
  neutrality. He allowed no outsider to criticize his government but
  before April, 1917, he had died fighting with the Foreign legion of
  France. The intimate touches which the author gives bring these tales
  home to the reader as tragedy through which he is personally passing.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:94 D ‘17

  “They are the work of a writer who has felt (not pursued) the
  continental influence, and whose master is de Maupassant rather than
  ‘O. Henry.’ But they are the work of an American, and they have the
  direct and personal effect of honest work done at first hand.” H. W.
  Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:337 N ‘17 490w

  “The red realism of war enters into the six short stories that make up
  this book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 170w

  “To those who have found war too gloriously represented in fiction, to
  those who would like to know a few of the typical fighting men of the
  eastern and western fronts, shorn of their civilized demeanor and
  expressing in action the purely elemental impulses, we recommend ‘The
  fighting men.’”

       + =Dial= 63:282 S 27 ‘17 140w

       + =Ind= 92:536 D 15 ‘17 140w

  “As a piece of writing ‘The fighting men’ is an uneven book. But for
  the most part it is graphic. And always it is horrible. The three
  stories, which take up the first half of the volume, are the best. ...
  ‘The Prussian’ is a terrible tale of war, like the others, but it
  seems less vivid, less real. As for ‘An Englishman,’ it is a morbid
  piece of fiction, false, maudlin, unwholesome.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:325 S 2 ‘17 550w

  “The tale called ‘The Odyssey of three Slavs’ is one of the most
  powerful war stories we have seen.”

       + =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 70w

  “Gradually, however, the realization sinks in that they are something
  more profound and significant than mere printers’-ink pictures of
  phases of the great war—they are psychological studies executed with
  amazing dexterity, comprehension and simplicity of means, embodying,
  for the most part, in a single character the complex personality, the
  dominant racial spirit of each of the warring nations.” F: T. Cooper

       + =Pub W= 92:809 S 15 ‘17 900w


=BROOKS, CHARLES STEPHEN.= There’s pippins and cheese to come. il *$2
(5c) Yale univ. press 814 17-29242

  “Journeys to Bagdad,” a book of reprinted papers published last year,
  won a place for the author in the regard of those who still cherish
  the essay as a form of literary diversion. There are twelve essays in
  the new volume, that which gives it the inviting title and the
  following: On buying old books; Any stick will do to beat a dog; Roads
  of morning; The man of Grub street comes from his garret; Now that
  spring is here; The friendly genii; Mr Pepys sits in the pit; To an
  unknown reader; A plague of all cowards; The asperities of the early
  British reviewers; The pursuit of fire. Some of these have appeared in
  the New Republic and the Yale Review.

  “Whimsical, clever essays with a leisurely atmosphere, reminiscent of
  Lamb.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:119 Ja ‘18

  “One of those books which cannot be recommended at all to many
  readers, but which can be recommended very highly to some. The worst
  that can be said of these twelve essays, from any point of view, is
  that they are a waste of time and energy, and fail to stimulate; they
  are often as futile as Edward Lear’s nonsense books, but at the same
  time almost as refreshing.” J. F. S.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p2 D 15 ‘17 400w

       + =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 60w

  “Rarely does one find a book so loaded with quiet humor, literary
  charm, ease of expression and delicate fancy.”

       + =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 80w

  “He has nothing whatever that is new to communicate but his own
  personal gusto; and he even smacks his lips, as he employs the
  subjunctive mood, with an antique smack.”

       + =Nation= 106:44 Ja 10 ‘18 200w

  “By all the known laws of style and thought Mr Brooks ought to have
  lived 100 years ago. The peculiar appeal of what he has to say comes
  from the fact that he is essentially archaic. He talks about the most
  modern things from an 18th or early 19th century point of view. ...
  Not the least entertaining feature of ‘Pippins and cheese’ is the
  skill with which Theodore Diedricksen, jr., has illustrated the
  pages.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 1300w


=BROOKS, EUGENE CLYDE.= Story of corn and the westward migration. il 75c
(1c) Rand 633 16-23150

  The author tells the story of corn from an interesting point of view,
  linking it up with the history of the westward movement of population
  in our country and the settlement and development of the Mississippi
  valley. The first chapters of the book are of a more general nature,
  treating of The struggle for food, Mythical stories of our food-giving
  plants, Food a factor in civilization, etc. The work is a companion
  volume to “The story of cotton,” and the two together, the author
  says, “should make a good course in elementary economic history for
  the last year of the grammar school or the first year of the high
  school.” The author is professor of education in Trinity college,
  Durham, N.C.


=BROWER, HARRIETTE MOORE.= Piano mastery; second series. il *$1.75 (3c)
Stokes 786 17-25989

  A second series of talks with pianists and teachers, including
  conferences with Hofmann, Godowsky, Grainger, Powell, Novaes,
  Hutcheson and others. In all, there are twenty-four interviews, each
  offering from a different angle, colored by a different personality,
  some big truth or truths about the development of piano art. The
  chapters will prove stimulating, inspiring and instructive to
  students.

  “Not less interesting and valuable to the student and music lover than
  the first series.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:82 D ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:811 D ‘17 50w


=BROWN, ALICE.= Bromley neighborhood. il *$1.50 (1c) Macmillan 17-18592

  “If a ‘neighborhood’ story can be said to have a heroine the
  outstanding, central figure of Miss Brown’s new novel is not either
  one of its young women ... but Mary Neale, middle-aged and mother of
  the two young men whose loves and ambitions, foibles and missteps
  furnish much of the skeleton of the story. ... But the Neales are only
  one of several families that inhabit the country neighborhood of
  Bromley, in New England, and all the others, the Greenes, the Brocks,
  the Gleasons, and their neighbors are pictured in the same detailed
  and graphic style, with little threads of quiet humor running through
  and the interaction of their individualities upon one another and the
  reaction of each to the environment form the story.”—N Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:25 O ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:95 S ‘17 700w

  “It is a story of the spirit rather than of the flesh. ... In a story
  of New England life we expect to find the sort of New Englanders we
  meet there. But there are practically none of these in ‘Bromley
  neighborhood.’ Its people might have existed and their happenings
  might have come to pass anywhere in the wide world, but least of all
  in New England.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 1400w

  “The book is excellent in character drawing and has the plot material
  for several good short stories. As a long story, however, its
  construction breaks down.”

     + — =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 80w

  “Perhaps the men and women of Bromley neighborhood are a little too
  consistent, even for New England, where consistency is said to be so
  common a jewel as to pass unnoticed; perhaps Miss Brown is a shade
  unsympathetic toward those characters in whom the spirit of New
  England has shrunk and crystallized into something different. But on
  the whole, the people of Bromley neighborhood are real people with
  reactions that are, on the whole, true—deadly true.”

     + — =Dial= 63:280 S 27 ‘17 550w

  “Surely one of the best American novels of the year.”

       + =Ind= 92:561 D 22 ‘17 300w

  “Miss Brown burns with a clear flame of indignation against the mood
  of the American government and the American people during the first
  year of the war. She respects only those who refused to be bound by
  official neutrality, who saw where our part lay and tried to do it.
  And she sees the war as a great purifier and solvent. ... As for the
  story proper, the tangled love story of Hugh and Ben Neale and Ellen
  Brock and Grissie Gleason, it is, like all of Miss Brown’s longer
  narratives, plainly a fiction. The truth is, she cannot paint a
  full-length portrait of a man. The women of this story are truly
  characterized.”

     + — =Nation= 105:124 Ag 2 ‘17 520w

  “Miss Brown’s virulent pro-ally bias can be excused. She is as much
  entitled to her opinion as one holding the reverse to his. But the
  artificiality of the whole plot, the excessive limitations of her
  characters, are not so excusable.” Clement Wood

     – + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 26 ‘17 400w

  “Miss Brown excels in this rich and glowing interpretation of New
  England character and temperament. Scarcely does she have her equal
  among writers of recent years. ... Once in a while she falls short in
  her interpretation into action, or rather, allows a character so to
  offend against probability as to rouse the reader to indignant
  protest. But when she does this it is because of her need of some
  crucial action in her plot and it usually takes the form of allowing
  one of her women characters to embark upon some adventure of sex that
  outrages all human probability. This new novel has just such a flaw in
  the sudden marriage of Ellen Brock.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:255 Jl 8 ‘17 700w

  “No novel by Alice Brown, not even ‘The prisoner,’ is more mature or
  richer in character depiction than ‘Bromley neighborhood.’ It would
  indeed be difficult to name any American novel of the year which is
  more thoroughly well worth reading.”

       + =Outlook= 116:626 Ag 22 ‘17 180w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:649 O ‘17 20w

  “A very fine novel, a better sermon on the recovery of the lost values
  of American citizenship.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:333 S ‘17 350w

  “The work contains diverse elements—some richly truthful and others
  sentimentally romantic.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 550w


=BROWN, ALICE.= Road to Castaly, and later poems. *$1.50 Macmillan 811
17-7033

  The earliest copyright date of the poems brought together in this book
  is 1893. It is in part a reprint of a small volume with the same title
  issued a number of years ago. Later poems have been added. Among these
  are a short poetic drama, “The immortal witnesses,” and a sonnet
  sequence, “The book of love.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:340 My ‘17

  “The volume shows no lack of craftsmanship in the handling of a
  variety of poetic forms. ... It is the sincere and sometimes inspired
  singing of a poet. ... Her shorter poems are without exception her
  best.” R. T. P.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 21 ‘17 1150w

  “The distinction of Miss Alice Brown’s poetry is its originality; Miss
  Brown is remarkable for her power of finding new themes and of saying
  new things about old themes.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1999 Je 30 ‘17 700w

  “Without classing Miss Brown among great or incisive poets, I can
  warmly commend ‘The road to Castaly.’ First of all, she has utterance,
  the plastic mouth. There is a perfect leafage of phrase, a sun-flecked
  and wind-tossed abundance, over which her fancy plays with what I can
  best describe as a hovering fondness. Again, her work is notable for
  the rarity of imperfections—itself a high rarity in current American
  verse of any grade.” O. W. Firkins

       + =Nation= 105:400 O 11 ‘17 240w

       + =N Y Times= 22:241 Je 24 ‘17 280w

  “Originality, daring, delicacy—these are the qualities that mark this
  book of verse from beginning to end. ... Yet the mastery is not
  complete; a certain obscurity clouds many of the poems, and the
  fascinating series of sonnets called ‘The book of love,’ which one
  feels ought to be the author’s best work, is for this reason
  unsatisfying.”

       + =No Am= 205:809 My ‘17 320w

  “One is accustomed to think of Alice Brown as the author of the prize
  play, ‘Children of earth,’ and as a successful short-story writer,
  rather than as a poet, but this book will not fail to convince her
  readers of her great natural gift for poetic expression. The poems in
  this collection are diverse of theme, thoughtful, and reverent of mood
  and strong with a certain dramatic propulsion.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:439 Ap ‘17 100w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 380w


=BROWN, CHARLES REYNOLDS.= Master’s way; a study in the synoptic
gospels. *$1.75 (1c) Pilgrim press 232 17-2209

  A series of papers reprinted from the Congregationalist. The author
  says, “This is not a ‘Life of Christ.’ It contains a series of studies
  based upon the more significant actions and utterances of the Master
  as we find them reported in the synoptic gospels.” They are designed
  especially for those engaged in Sunday school work or leading Bible
  study classes. “They were not written for the critical scholar.” The
  author is dean of the School of religion at Yale university.

  “Dr Brown has sufficient keenness of insight, freshness of statement,
  and real power of interpretation to make his collection of ‘lesson
  helps’ worth preservation in this permanent form. ... This is the work
  of a teacher.”

       + =Bib World= 50:50 Jl ‘17 300w

  “Filled with a sympathy which finds in love’s boundlessness a hope for
  all mankind, this collection of Doctor Brown’s sermons comforts as
  well as inspires.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 31 ‘17 210w

  “Delightful and full of suggestions.”

       + =Ind= 90:299 My 12 ‘17 60w

  “To a remarkable degree it correlates the events and the ministry of
  Christ with present-day problems and needs. ... The best modern
  scholarship appears throughout the book. The author is very balanced
  in his judgments and presents both sides of the disputed questions.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 F 8 ‘17 150w


=BROWN, DEMETRA (VAKA) (MRS KENNETH BROWN).= Heart of the Balkans.
*$1.50 (3½c) Houghton 914.97 17-14034

  In these papers, some of them reprinted from the Delineator and the
  Century, the author describes a journey taken thru the Balkans in
  company with her brother. The date of these travels is not given, but
  they were probably taken in one of the interims of the first or second
  Balkan wars. The author was most interested, as she states, in the
  women of these countries. Contents: Wild Albania; Romantic Albania;
  Through the lands of the Black-mountaineers; The eagle and the
  sparrow; Servia, the undaunted; The gypsies of the Balkans; The
  Prussia of the Balkans; The sons of the Hellenes; Saloniki, the city
  of histories.

  “She gives much information, shows the contrasts between the various
  peoples and has many original points of view.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:22 O ‘17

  “The author is remarkably successful in grasping and presenting the
  diverse characteristics of these neighbor-peoples.”

       + =Cleveland= p115 S ‘17 50w

  “It would make a poor guidebook indeed, but it is something better.
  Her word pictures of the physical appearance of each land are
  suggestive and touched with beauty.”

       + =Dial= 63:348 O 11 ‘17 190w

       + =Ind= 90:561 Je 23 ‘17 30w

       + =Ind= 91:78 Jl 14 ‘17 50w

  “The author is a Greek, born in Constantinople, a woman who has
  studied both the political and racial characteristics of her country
  and who has also a style charmingly individual, picturesque, and a
  diction worthy of her native land.”

       + =Lit D= 55:42 O 13 ‘17 290w

       + =Outlook= 116:305 Je 20 ‘17 180w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:674 O ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p46 O ‘17 20w

  “Particularly valuable in this fascinating book is the presentation of
  the characteristics of the women of the various countries. If anyone
  wishes to get a vivid first-hand account of these countries in brief
  compass that is more engaging than most fiction, this little book to
  him can be recommended.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 260w


=BROWN, EDNA ADELAIDE.= Spanish chest. il *$1.35 (2c) Lothrop 17-23755

  This book for boys and girls, by an author who can always be depended
  on for a fresh and absorbing story, describes attractively scenes in
  the island of Jersey. Two English girls, thrown on their own
  resources, decide to let rooms to tourists and are fortunate in
  obtaining as their first lodgers a delightful American family. Edith
  the younger of the two English girls, immediately makes friends with
  Frances, the American, and Estelle, the older, is at once attracted to
  Mrs Thayne. The two American boys, Win and Roger, find interests to
  their liking, Win in historical research and Roger in outdoor
  adventure and exploration. The party make friends with the residents
  of an old manor house, associated with the stay of Charles II on the
  island, and are allowed to investigate its secret passage ways. The
  finding of the chest, once the possession of Prince Charley, is the
  culminating incident.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:100 D ‘17

  “It is not a love tale; it is not a story of adventure; it is not a
  story of mystery and ghosts, and yet these features are suggested,
  giving a distinct charm that makes it readable for older persons, as
  well as the younger generation.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 8 ‘17 100w

       + =Ind= 92:447 D 1 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Times= 22:389 O 7 ‘17 50w

         =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 20w

  “The Channel islands are unfamiliar ground to most American readers,
  and the peculiarities of Jersey in general, and of St Helier’s in
  particular, are well brought out by the author, and even the little
  colloquialisms that she introduces are worth noting.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 1 ‘17 160w


=BROWN, GEORGE ROTHWELL.= My country; a story of today. il *$1.35 (2½c)
Small 17-23648

  This is said to be the first novel to come out of our war with
  Germany. The plot and the way in which the story is developed recall
  Phillips Oppenheim. The hero, Wilhelm Hartmann, known as Billy, and
  his twin brother, Karl, are Prussians by birth, though their father
  has become a loyal American citizen. After the father’s death, Karl
  returns to Germany for his education and becomes thoroughly
  Prussianized, while Billy, through the influence of Prussians who hope
  to use him later, though he is ignorant of this at the time, is
  appointed to Annapolis and later promoted to a position of importance
  in the United States navy. The crucial point in the story comes when
  Billy, already obliged to pay the penalty of a dual nationality in
  suffering the distrust of his fellow officers, meets his twin brother,
  who has returned secretly by submarine as the official representative
  of the Kaiser and tells Billy that he is the Kaiser’s man, that he
  owes his appointment as assistant chief-of-staff to the
  commander-in-chief to Prussian influence and that it is his duty to
  save Germany by betraying the American navy. How Billy deals with his
  brother and how he saves and finally wins the girl he loves is
  ingeniously told.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 480w

         =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 70w

  “The story is a thrilling one and offers a serious idea or two
  besides.”

     + — =Dial= 63:220 S 13 ‘17 120w

       + =N Y Times= 22:243 Je 24 ‘17 330w


=BROWN, HAROLD WARNER.= Electrical equipment; its selection and
arrangement, with special reference to factories, shops and industrial
plants. il *$2 McGraw 621.3 17-5558

  “The book supplements, and does not duplicate, existing recognized
  texts which describe electrical apparatus or present the principles of
  design and application or give various performance data. Its aim, in
  contrast, is to show how to apply principles and data elsewhere
  accessible.”—Engin News-Rec

         =A L A Bkl= 14:44 N ‘17

         =Cleveland= p93 Jl ‘17 20w

  “Non-electrical men who have problems in the selection and use of
  electrical equipment put up to them, will welcome Mr Brown’s
  lectures.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:363 My 17 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17

  “Unique in that it attacks the subject from the standpoint of the
  mechanical engineer. To facilitate study, data references are confined
  mainly to the ‘Standard’ and the ‘American’ handbooks, while Alexander
  Gray’s ‘Principles and practice of electrical engineering’ is depended
  upon for theory.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p7 Ap ‘17 120w

  “Primarily intended to guide college students in laying out their work
  and to assist mechanical and electrical engineers in selecting
  electrical equipment, and in this capacity it should find a wide field
  of usefulness.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:445 My ‘17 50w

  “Helpful book, the first to deal definitely with this subject.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:517 Je ‘17 20w

  “The tables given in the chapter on Motor applications are a very
  important part of the work.”

       + =Power= 45:400 Mr 20 ‘17 440w

         =Pratt= p17 Jl ‘17 20w

  “Author is connected with the engineering department of Cornell
  university.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks Ap= ‘17 160w

         =St Louis= 15:174 Je ‘17 10w


=BROWN, IVOR.= Security. *$1.25 (1½c) Doran

  The way of dons, the way of men, the way of women, and the way of the
  world are the four divisions of this novel. John Grant, an Oxford don
  at the opening of the story, is just beginning to find the peace and
  security of the life intolerable. His father’s death, which brings him
  a comfortable fortune, provides a way of escape. He goes to London to
  plunge into the world of men with a friend who is a champion of labor.
  But he is not built for the hazards and excitements of such an
  existence. He leaves it and marries, expecting to find in marriage the
  peace and security for which he again longs. But his wife also has
  married for security, and like himself she finds that it palls after a
  time. She tries a way of escape which, strangely enough, results in
  drawing the two, husband and wife, together in a mutual understanding.

  “So far as the hero himself is concerned, we hope recognition of the
  fact will grow among readers that, like many well-intentioned
  capitalists, he is attempting to improve at one end the situation he
  is helping to create at the other. ... Security is certainly never
  attained, though if the hero had any real aim in life, perhaps it was
  that. A better title would have been ‘The slacker’s progress.’”

       — =Ath= p126 Mr ‘16 550w

  “‘A thoughtful and sincere piece of work.’”

       + =Cleveland= p33 Mr ‘17 60w

       + =N Y Times= 22:136 Ap 15 ‘17 360w

  “The talk of the labour men is as good as the talk of the dons. ...
  Our conviction of the author’s knowledge begins to wane in ‘The way of
  women,’ and it evaporates rapidly in ‘The way of the world.’”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p70 F 10 ‘16 600w


=BROWN, KATHARINE HOLLAND.= Wages of honor, and other stories. il *$1.35
(2c) Scribner 17-24278

  The stories in this book are divided into three groups, representing
  three geographical divisions of our continent. The four stories of the
  first group: The wages of honor; The master strategist; “Crabbed age
  and youth”; and Brewster blood have scenes laid in the east. Following
  these are three stories of the Mississippi country: The ragged edge of
  forty; Raw prose; Briarley’s real woman. The third group consists of
  three stories of Mexico: Billy Foster and the snow queen; Millicent,
  maker of history; On a brief text from Isaiah. With two exceptions the
  stories are reprinted from Scribner’s Magazine.

  “Ten readable short stories. They all have a high moral tone.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:94 D ‘17

  “Magazine readers are already well acquainted with the clean and
  dignified style characteristic of the author. There is nothing to
  offend and much to interest and provide pleasant reading in these
  three hundred pages.”

       + =Cath World= 106:413 D ‘17 80w

  “Rather subtle and a little too slow for the average novel reader. The
  three stories of Mexico are interesting, especially the first, in
  letter form, and they present a new view of the Mexican peon.”

     + — =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 50w

  “They are all stories with happy endings, irrespective of the logic of
  the situation.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:388 O 7 ‘17 160w

  “A man cannot write a story of a sewing society that will convince
  women and a woman cannot write of violent masculine physical labor, in
  a way convincing to men. Thus, in ‘The ragged edge of forty,’ Miss
  Brown, though she has her technical details and a correct background,
  writes a story that leaves the masculine reader with the unsatisfied
  sense that she didn’t know what she was writing about. ‘Billy Foster
  and the snow queen’ has, in many ways, the greatest appeal in the
  book.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 380w


=BROWN, PHILIP MARSHALL.= International realities. *$1.40 (3c) Scribner
341 17-3489

  The author says, “Since the great war began I have been conscious,
  with many others, of the urgent necessity of a thorough reconstruction
  of the law of nations in accordance with the big facts of
  international life. I have set myself the task of endeavoring to
  ascertain the fundamental values in international relations. The
  method followed has been to select certain of the large problems of
  international relations and treat them as separate topics illustrating
  and elucidating some of the basic principles of international law.”
  Some of the papers are reprinted from the North American Review.
  Contents: International realities; Nationalism; The rights of states;
  The limitations of arbitration; International administration;
  Ignominious neutrality; The dangers of pacifism; Pan-Americanism;
  Democracy and diplomacy; The substitution of law for war.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:5 O ‘17

  “Though unduly obsessed by ‘realities,’—which is to say, existing
  phenomena—and unnecessarily patronising in tone toward the ‘emotion
  and sentiment’ of those who seek a more idealistic and visionary
  solution, it is nevertheless a valuable analysis of the bases of
  international law.” Nathaniel Pfeffer

     + — =Bookm= 45:198 Ap ‘17 230w

  “His book will serve to clear up some misunderstood points, but his
  personal predilections are apparent and his ‘common sense’ reduces
  all considerations to a somewhat materialistic basis. Much of this
  was written for magazines, and a part of it has a slight
  political-campaign flavor.”

     + — =Cleveland= p53 Ap ‘17 70w

  “It is no dispassionate study as proved by such headings as
  Ignominious neutrality and Dangers of pacificism, but in pointing out
  the tasks immediately practical, especially in relation to South
  America, it is suggestive and inspiring.”

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 50w

  “Professor Brown of Princeton, in writing of international relations
  and the ‘law’ that more or less guides and governs them, has the
  advantage of adding considerable experience in diplomacy to his
  professional study. He served as secretary of legation and as chargé
  in the Near East, especially at Constantinople, and as minister to
  Honduras.”

         =N Y Times= 22:87 Mr 11 ‘17 700w

         =St Louis= 15:133 My ‘17 10w


=BROWN, WILLIAM ADAMS.= Is Christianity practicable? lectures delivered
in Japan. *$1.25 (4c) Scribner 261 16-23974

  Dr Brown is Union seminary lecturer on Christianity in the Far East
  and the lectures that make up this book were delivered in Japan. The
  question that serves as title is considered with reference to the
  present war. The author’s answer is that Christianity has never been
  tried. It has been tried as an individual religion, but has never been
  applied to national or international problems. The responsibility for
  the war is laid to the fact that the leaders of all the so-called
  Christian nations have assumed the impracticability of Christianity.
  In this they have been sustained by public sentiment. The five
  chapters of the book are: The world crisis as challenge and as
  opportunity; The Christian interpretation of history; The Christian
  programme for humanity; The duty for to-morrow; What the church can
  do.

  “A courageous, candid, and constructive book—courageous, because it
  consists of lectures in the Orient upon the most embarrassing question
  of Christian apologetics; candid and constructive, because without
  artificial or question-begging theological premises, and working only
  with real facts and ideals, the author has produced a clear and simple
  apologetic adapted to build up genuine Christian conviction.” E. W.
  Lyman

       + =Am J Theol= 21:467 Jl ‘17 860w

  “These lectures were delivered in Japan, and ought to have a wholesome
  influence in counteracting the baleful effects of jingoism both in
  Japan and in America.”

       + =Bib World= 49:186 Mr ‘17 450w

         =N Y Times= 22:436 O 28 ‘17 60w

       + =Outlook= 115:668 Ap 11 ‘17 200w

  “The volume is a distinct contribution to the literature of social
  Christianity.” Graham Taylor

       + =Survey= 38:574 S 29 ‘17 360w


=BROWN, WILLIAM ALDEN.= Portland cement industry; with notes on physical
testing. il *$3 Van Nostrand 666 (Eng ed 17-17970)

  “A practical treatise on the building, equipping, and economical
  running of a Portland cement plant.” (Sub-title) A short introductory
  chapter and a historical sketch of the industry are followed by
  discussions of: Manufacture—raw materials; Design and construction of
  a modern Portland cement plant; The rotary kiln; Power plants; Costs
  and statistics, etc. The author is a member of the South Wales
  institute of engineers, and the book has been written to encourage the
  development of the Portland cement industry in Great Britain to meet
  the competition of Germany and the United States after the war.

  “The book itself is a very good categorical description of the
  manufacture of portland cement, with special detailed reference to the
  individual parts making up the cement mill. More attention is paid to
  the factory itself and to raw materials than to chemical
  investigations, although there are six chapters on the technique of
  testing.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:325 Ag 16 ‘17 130w

  “The book before us is eminently practical, and deserves serious
  consideration because the author has had important American
  experience, and is now managing a large modern cement works in South
  Wales. Some notes on physical testing constitute a valuable feature.”
  J. A. A.

       + =Nature= 98:368 Ja 11 ‘17 260w


=BROWNE, BELMORE.= White blanket. il *$1.25 (2c) Putnam 17-31026

  A sequel to “The quest of the golden valley.” George Draper and Fred
  Morgan, the two boys of that story, spend a winter in Alaska with
  George’s uncle, who is prospecting for gold. In addition to helping
  establish a valuable mining claim, the two boys have many adventures
  and brave great dangers. The author, who is an arctic explorer, is
  utilizing his experiences in the north in this series of books for
  boys. His familiarity with the country is further shown in the
  drawings he has made to illustrate the story.

  “A first-class book with a background of reality.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:565 D 16 ‘17 110w


=BROWNE, JOHN HUTTON BALFOUR.= Recollections; literary and political.
*10s 6d Constable & co., London

  Mr Browne, a Scottish lawyer, author of “Forty years at the bar” and
  of many other volumes, is a brother of Sir James Crichton-Browne. He
  shows a strong bent towards philosophy and was for several years a
  reviewer of philosophical books for the magazines. His “Recollections”
  abound in anecdotes, many of them not new.

  “His thumb-nail appreciations of politicians and others are sometimes
  acute, occasionally amusing, and in certain instances likely to be
  dissented from by many readers. ... Does not appear to have much
  sympathy with efforts at social reforms. ... On pp. 113-14 there are
  some references to the United States which it would have been better,
  we think, to delete. On p. 203 ‘Aubernon,’ in a copy of a letter from
  Lord Bramwell, should be Auberon.”

     – + =Ath= p417 Ag ‘17 390w

  “He has no doubt about his likes and dislikes, and expresses them with
  a frankness that leaves little to be desired, and deals some shrewd
  knocks at the idols of the present generation. ... These recollections
  give us a vivid picture of a shrewd, able, alert, and highly critical
  mind, keenly interested in many subjects outside the law.”

       + =Spec= 118:88 Jl 28 ‘17 1600w

  “These recollections are such as might have been published by that
  busy, canny old gentleman Polonius, but for the hasty action of
  Hamlet. ... They are not legal, but political and literary—a record of
  unimportant elections lost; of writings that have been forgotten by
  the writer himself; and of sentiments that have nothing novel or
  striking to commend them.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p353 Jl 26 ‘17 900w


=BROWNE, PORTER EMERSON.= Someone and somebody. il *$1.35 (2½c) Bobbs
17-14136

  “The collision of a Long Island railroad train with an automobile in
  which his two tight-fisted uncles are riding raises the hero from the
  status of book agent to millionaire. Notwithstanding that he is a
  college man, he is singularly ignorant of the usages of good society.
  But he is physically attractive and soon learns the ways of the world
  into which fortune pitches him. Coincidentally with his leap from
  poverty to affluence, the heroine’s position is reversed. ... One day,
  however, she discovers that the hero’s uncles had mulcted her father
  of his fortune. She marches directly to the young man and demands her
  money back. ... He consents. But before he is able to carry out his
  good intention, the news is brought to him that his confidential agent
  has ... absconded [with his fortune].” (Springf’d Republican) Both
  young people, however, contrive to outwit ill fortune, and the book
  ends happily.

  “There is a keenness even under the froth in a story of the type of
  this present one, and we have the impression that under it all he is
  rather laughing at those who read it. ... He deliberately puts aside
  the serious mood, unless it be true that his very burlesquing is
  serious. He gives us every kind of a fictional misfortune and then
  ends his story by arbitrarily bringing all right again.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 350w

  “Perhaps Mr Browne’s experience as a playwright is responsible for the
  manner in which the situation develops. ... His pointed humor is very
  diverting, and although the romance does not always move voluntarily,
  there is no lack of lively interest throughout.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 320w


=BROWNELL, WILLIAM CRARY.= Standards. *$1 (4½c) Scribner 801 17-13754

  The author discusses standards in art and literature. The tendency of
  the present day is to discard standards of all kinds, and to point out
  the dangers of such a course is part of Mr Brownell’s aim in this
  little book. There are seven chapters, dealing with: Measures of
  value; The public; Taste; The individual; The inner life; “Modern
  art”; The cause of art and letters.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:14 O ‘17

  “A brief monograph, admirable in its technique and apparently intended
  to supplement his concentrated little essay on criticism.”

       + =Cleveland= p89 Jl ‘17 80w

  “A thin volume of masterly essays with a rich and widely varied
  vocabulary that well serves to project intellectual and art
  pyrotechnics.”

       + =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 70w

  “There can never be too much of the refined and much-experienced
  criticism such as Mr W. C. Brownell’s essay on ‘Standards,’ which we
  all read in Scribner’s Magazine and are glad to have now as a book.”

       + =Nation= 105:152 Ag 9 ‘17 100w

  “His pages sparkle with wit and wisdom in happy combination. The
  reader feels the sway of a loyal, candid, deeply self-respecting
  nature and of a mind disciplined by the study not only of what
  literature discloses of life, but of that still richer revelation
  which actual living brings to the soul that can receive it.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:200 My 20 ‘17 800w

         =Pratt= p33 O ‘17 20w


=BRUBAKER, HOWARD.= Ranny, otherwise Randolph Harrington Dukes. il
*$1.40 (2c) Harper 17-20177

  “A tale of those activities which made him an important figure in his
  town, in his family—and in other families.” (Sub-title) The sixteen
  chapters about the doings of this representative American small boy,
  during the year when he was “eight-going-on-nine” are written from the
  adult point of view. They appeared originally in Harper’s Magazine.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:25 O ‘17

         =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 30w

  “Howard Brubaker has been a real boy, but more to the point, he has
  the faculty of making his readers boys again. ‘Ranny’ is excellent
  reading.”

       + =Dial= 63:354 O 11 ‘17 40w

     + — =N Y Times= 22:282 Jl 29 ‘17 370w


=BRUCE, EDWIN MORRIS.= Detection of the common food adulterants. 3d ed
rev and enl *$1.25 Van Nostrand 614.3 17-31161

  This third edition of a little volume published in 1907 “has been
  revised so that it contains the latest and best tests for the common
  food adulterants.” (Preface) Contents: Dairy products; Meat and eggs;
  Cereal products; Leavening materials; Canned and bottled vegetables;
  Fruits and fruit products; Flavoring extracts; Saccharine products;
  Spices; Vinegar; Fats and oils; Beverages. In addition to the general
  index, there is an index to authors and tests.


=BRUCE, HENRY ADDINGTON BAYLEY.= Handicaps of childhood. *$1.50 (3c)
Dodd 136.7 17-29498

  The author states that he has written this book “to amplify and
  supplement his ‘Psychology and parenthood.’” “Its general aim,
  accordingly, is to present additional evidence in support of the
  doctrine, that, in view of the discoveries of modern psychology with
  regard to individual development, the mental and moral training of
  children by their parents ought to be begun earlier, and be carried on
  more intensively, than is the rule at present. But whereas in
  ‘Psychology and parenthood’ the emphasis was chiefly on the importance
  of early mental training, the chief concern of the present book is to
  demonstrate the importance of early training in the moral sphere.”
  (Preface) Much of the material here presented has already appeared in
  the Century, Good Housekeeping, McClure’s, Harper’s Bazar, Every Week,
  and the Mother’s Magazine. The book includes chapters on Stammering,
  The only child, and Fairy tales that handicap. This latter points out
  the danger to many children of fairy tales that reek of brutality and
  gore.

  “A work of manufacture rather than of literature, but none the less
  rather interesting reading for an hour or two and, if liberally
  seasoned with the salt of skepticism, perhaps not unprofitable reading
  for parents. The salt is needed for the author’s naïve acceptance of
  Freudian ‘discoveries’; apart from this prepossession, his suggestions
  are not lacking in sanity.”

     + — =Nation= 106:120 Ja 31 ‘18 100w

  “Simple in expression and eminently readable, this discussion of child
  psychology is based on full knowledge and sound thinking.”

       + =Outlook= 117:654 D 19 ‘17 60w


=BRUCE, WILLIAM CABELL.= Benjamin Franklin, self-revealed. 2v *$6 (3c)
Putnam 17-29818

  A biographical and critical study of Franklin based largely on his own
  writings. All of the aids of modern scholarship have been employed to
  make the work accurate and exhaustive. It is the many-sided Franklin
  who stands revealed in these pages. The first volume inquires into
  Franklin’s moral standing and system, his religious beliefs, family
  relations, American, British and French friends, and estimates
  Franklin, the philanthropist and citizen; the second volume portrays
  his personal characteristics, looks at Franklin, the man of business,
  statesman, man of science and writer.

  “The volumes throughout are distinguished by keen critical insight and
  by a deep understanding of human nature, added to which are a fine
  sense of proportion and a literary manner which renders the work
  eminently readable.” E. J. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 21 ‘17 730w

  “Here are two volumes which, with literary finish, careful accuracy,
  and critical insight, consider every side of this remarkable man. They
  abound in citations from Franklin’s writings, especially his private
  letters, and thus reveal his personality as no mere biographical pages
  could.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 D 15 ‘17 340w

  “It is detached, impersonal, detailed, and it discusses Franklin’s
  foibles and flaws on every side, in all their manifestations and in
  all their relations to his family, friends, and period.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:5 Ja 6 ‘18 650w

  “An admirable piece of work—every page sparkling with the interest
  that attaches to a unique character.”

       + =Outlook= 117:574 D 5 ‘17 100w

       + =R of Rs= 57:100 Ja ‘18 110w

     + — =Spec= 120:61 Ja 19 ‘18 2050w

  “The author belongs to that school of American writers on biography
  and history who have never taken to heart the maxim that the half is
  greater than the whole.”

     – + =The Times= [London] Lit Sup p16 Ja 10 ‘18 1000w


=BRUNNER, EDMUND DE SCHWEINITZ.= New country church building. (Library
of Christian progress) il 75c Missionary education movement 17-17093

  “Edmund de S. Brunner, who has been successful in community leadership
  and who knows churches from every angle, including that of the
  pulpit, ... has packed into these 140 pages a comprehensive survey of
  architectural and spiritual needs. Eleven plans are submitted for
  country churches, incorporating in varying degree, from simple to
  elaborate, suggestive arrangements for Sunday-school rooms, boys’ and
  girls’ club rooms, gymnasium, etc.; and several other plans deal with
  parish houses or community buildings.” (Springf’d Republican) The
  Federal council’s commission on church and country life has indorsed
  Dr Brunner’s volume.

       + =Ind= 91:345 S 1 ‘17 40w

  “While the volume is meant for country churches, it has much of value
  for town and city parishes.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 8 ‘17 350w

  “It is not a technical book, but it should be valuable to the
  architect, though it is written for the country minister, the country
  layman and the rural social worker. The sketches and plans by James
  Grunert are most suggestive. Particularly interesting is the section
  by Mrs Brunner upon the kitchen.” S.

       + =Survey= 38:574 S 29 ‘17 200w


=BRYAN, WILLIAM JENNINGS.= Heart to heart appeals. il *$1 Revell 308
17-12620

  “These selections from the Bryan speeches and writings are varied and
  all-embracing. The topics include Government, Imperialism, Equal
  suffrage, The liquor question, Peace, Ideals, Labor, Trusts, and many
  more.”—Boston Transcript

  “As one glances through the pages of this book it is bound to embody
  merely the fond and lingering memories of a man whose talents and
  political efforts have largely spelled failure.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 450w

  Reviewed by H. M. Kallen

         =Dial= 63:445 N 3 ‘17 580w

  “They afford many glimpses of history, with side-lights revealing a
  personality widely recognized as dominant and picturesque.”

       + =Lit D= 55:33 S 1 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:88 Je ‘17 6w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 100w


=BRYANT, MRS LORINDA (MUNSON).= American pictures and their painters. il
*$3 (4c) Lane 759.1 17-16076

  This work “is designed to provide a working basis for the appreciation
  of American art. To accomplish this I have attempted especially to
  trace the careers of the leaders in their respective eras—artists who
  even now are modern old masters. ... Naturally it is too early as yet
  to judge the younger artists correctly, consequently only a limited
  number are here represented; those are included who indicate the trend
  of thought in art to-day.” (Introd.) Beginning with a chapter on West,
  Copley, Peale and Trumbull, the author traces American painting down
  to the present day, closing with a chapter on Ultra-modern art. The
  book is illustrated with over 200 reproductions of paintings.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:12 O ‘17

  “The author has been responsible for a series of quite a half-dozen
  books embodying various phases of this subject, all of which have
  found readers. ... The work is broad and comprehensive, and the many
  illustrations are equally so, and add greatly to the interest of the
  work.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 23 ‘17 420w

  “The author’s appreciations are characterized by both fairness and
  interest. The 230 illustrations are chosen with discrimination.”

       + =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 60w

  “The illustrations afford only a fair idea of the pictures, for it
  must be confest that they are somewhat flat and leave much to the
  imagination.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:43 D 1 ‘17 300w

       + =Outlook= 116:488 Jl 25 ‘17 40w

  “The text is delightfully written, with just enough chattiness to lift
  it out of the ruts of guide-books. One welcomes the chapter on
  ultra-modern art, inasmuch as upon the spirit of unrest manifest in it
  largely depends our artistic progress.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:219 Ag ‘17 100w

  “One studies the volume rather hopelessly in the search of the key to
  the sequence of names. The pictures are so good that they might stand
  as the raison d’etre of the volume with the letterpress added as
  commentary.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 13 ‘17 350w


=BRYCE, MRS CHARLES.= Long spoon. *$1.40 (2c) Lane 17-23341

  The title of this book is taken from the old proverb, “He must have a
  long spoon that must eat with the devil.” The scene is laid in Wales.
  The heroine, Thirza, has married Sir Hugo Averill as a means of
  support, only to discover that he is a brute with a partially
  unbalanced brain. Two men fall in love with Lady Averill: George
  Blount, who has rented Sir Hugo’s fishing, and Oswald Gerrard, Sir
  Hugo’s land agent. The story goes on to tell how Lady Averill resorts
  to necromancy to solve her difficulties, and what comes of it all in
  the end.

  “Terse and full of action and sustained interest. ... To introduce
  necromancy in a novel is daring and difficult, for if the subject is
  not treated with great tact it so easily distorts and cheapens. Mrs
  Bryce has done her work cleverly.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:343 S 16 ‘17 160w


=BRYCE, JAMES BRYCE, viscount.= Some historical reflections on war, past
and present. *1s Oxford 172.4

  These essays are portions of two presidential addresses delivered to
  the British academy, June, 1915 and July, 1916. “Among the topics
  considered are the vast range and extent of the war, its immense
  influence upon neutral nations, the changes in the methods of war, the
  cost, the moral issues raised, the effect in each nation upon the
  whole body of the people, ... the shock given to the rules of
  international law, the chief causes of war in the past, the question
  whether international machinery can be contrived ‘calculated to reduce
  the strength of the forces that make for war and to strengthen those
  that make for peace.’ He indicates some of the difficulties to be
  surmounted, but believes that there is much to be hoped from the
  creation of ... an international mind, and of an international public
  opinion.” (Ath)

         =Ath= p33 Ja ‘17 280w

  “Lord Bryce’s two presidential addresses are deliberately written in a
  spirit of detachment. ... The second address contains some acute
  criticisms upon plans for a federation, or league of nations.” M. J.

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:538 Jl ‘17 110w


=BRYCE, JAMES BRYCE, viscount.= Treatment of Armenians in the Ottoman
empire, 1915-1916; documents presented to Viscount Grey. *$1 Putnam 956
17-2893

  “The collection is made from a great variety of reliable sources
  including American consuls and missionaries, German travelers and
  missionaries, Danish Red cross workers, Swiss visitors, native
  teachers, pastors and other religious leaders. It is a terrible mass
  of conclusive evidence pointing to the perpetration of the foulest
  crime ever committed against a defenseless people.”—Ind

         =A L A Bkl= 13:393 Je ‘17

         =Ind= 90:437 Je 2 ‘17 200w

  “If the reader is sickened by the dreadful reiteration of horrors, of
  torture and murder and mutilation, of outrage and burning, of the
  sufferings of starving women forced to march on under a blazing sun
  when the pains of labour were on them, let him not fail to read Mr
  Toynbee’s admirable historical retrospect of Armenia and his review of
  the antecedents and procedure of the deportation policy.”

         =Spec= 118:105 Ja 27 ‘17 2100w


=BRYCE, JAMES BRYCE, viscount, and others.= Proposals for the prevention
of future wars. *1s Allen & Unwin, London 341.1 (Eng ed 17-22062)

  “This is a draft scheme for an international alliance to keep the
  peace. It differs from the League of nations society’s programme in
  not asking the Allies to enforce an arbitrator’s award, and from the
  programme of the American League to enforce peace in requiring the
  Allies to deal with aggression by a non-Ally as well as by one of
  their number.”—Spec

         =Ath= p303 Je ‘17 90w

         =Int J Ethics= 28:288 Ja ‘18 110w

         =Spec= 118:705 Je 23 ‘17 60w

  “The proposals are reasonably modest and admittedly deal only with a
  part of the problem. They are concerned only with international
  disputes and with the means of preventing international wars. ... They
  are sound enough so far as they go, but the motor will not move
  without its petrol; and it is the spirit which is difficult to
  obtain.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p313 Jl 5 ‘17 2300w


=BRYCE, JAMES BRYCE, viscount, and others.= War of democracy. *$2 (2c)
Doubleday 940.91 17-8205

  A collection of papers on the war from the standpoint of the Allies.
  Lord Bryce in his introduction says: “The present war differs from all
  that have gone before it not only in its vast scale and in the volume
  of misery it has brought upon the world, but also in the fact that it
  is a war of principles, and a war in which the permanent interests,
  not merely of the belligerent powers but of all nations, are involved
  as such interests were never involved before. ... This war of
  principles is a war not only for the vindication of international
  right, for the faith of treaties, for the protection of the innocent,
  but also for liberty.” Among those who contribute to the book are:
  Lord Haldane, Gilbert Murray, Arthur J. Balfour, G. M. Trevelyan,
  Viscount Grey of Falloden (Sir Edward Grey), and M. Maurice Barrès.

  “Mr Balfour’s discussion of naval questions comes no nearer to our
  time than the summer of 1915, and this fact suggests the most obvious
  comment upon this whole volume. It is not keyed to the present moment.
  It meets no present vital need. The volume entitled ‘The war and
  democracy,’ which Messrs Seton-Watson, Wilson, Zimmern, and Greenwood
  published in 1915, is incomparably superior to this one.” C. H.
  Levermore

     – + =Am Hist R= 23:170 O ‘17 470w

  “A notable collection of articles, addresses, interviews, and
  documents.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:348 My ‘17

  “Mr Fisher’s discussion of the value of small states is an historical
  analysis of permanent importance. ... The temper of the book is
  admirable in its moderation and its calm common sense. It is greatly
  to be hoped that this collection is only the first of a series which
  will winnow from the immense mass of pamphlets some, at any rate, of
  those which have more than a momentary importance.” H. J. Laski

       + =Dial= 62:473 My 31 ‘17 170w

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 70w

  “‘The war of democracy’ was written for American consumption and was
  put together with the avowed purpose of influencing American opinion.
  As America made up its mind definitively at the very hour of the
  book’s publication, many of the articles, addresses, and interviews so
  carefully selected by the editor are rather belated. A few of the
  articles, however, are of permanent value.”

     + — =Nation= 105:227 Ag 30 ‘17 300w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:58 Ap ‘17

  “Perhaps the article which most needs to be read by Americans is the
  one on ‘Economic Germany,’ in which Henri Hauser discusses German
  industry as a factor making for war. For he lays bare developments,
  conditions, purposes that are as much a menace to the harmony and
  well-being of the world as is Prussian militarism.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:45 F 11 ‘17 650w

  “Includes some of the great speeches of the war period.”

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:114 My ‘17 30w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:427 My ‘17 60w

       + =Pratt= p43 O ‘17 40w

         =R of Rs= 55:445 Ap ‘17 70w

         =St Louis= 15:106 Ap ‘17


=BUBNOFF, I. V.= Co-operative movement in Russia; its history,
significance, and character. il $1.25 M. Fainberg, 309 Broadway, N.Y.
(Co-operative printing society, Manchester, England) 334 17-30589

  The author shows that cooperation has gained a firm footing among the
  Russian peasantry, and that the European war has given a prodigious
  stimulus to the movement. He begins with a sketch of agriculture from
  the abolition of serfdom in 1861, and tells of the help furnished the
  peasants by the zemstvos and by agricultural societies, whose work is
  mainly instructional while economic functions are discharged by the
  artels for production, consumers’ societies for distribution, and
  credit banks for finance. Consumers’ societies, we are told, between
  1905 and 1917 have multiplied from 1,000 to 20,000 and credit and loan
  associations from 1,434 to 16,057.

  “The book evidently contains authentic matter prepared by one
  thoroughly familiar with the subject at first hand.” Herman Kobbe

       + =N Y Call= p14 S 2 ‘17 180w

         =Spec= 118:64 Jl 21 ‘17 70w

  “Mr Bubnoff says nothing about the political or industrial side, but
  his account of the cooperative movement reveals so much capacity for
  organization, self-help, and practical action among the peasantry and
  industrial classes of Russia that current events become much more
  intelligible in the light of it. ... His book is a compact statement
  of facts with sufficient explanatory comment to make clear the
  character of cooperation in Russia and its various ramifications. It
  is a valuable addition to the library of cooperative literature.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p291 Je 21 ‘17 950w


=BUCHAN, JOHN.= Battle of the Somme. il *$1.50 (2c) Doran (1s Nelson,
London) 940.91 17-14221

  The main purpose of the allied forces at the Somme, says the author,
  was “to exercise a steady and continued pressure on a certain section
  of the enemy’s front.” Subsidiary aims were to ease the pressure on
  Verdun and to prevent the transference of large bodies of German
  troops from the western to the eastern front. He gives a somewhat
  detailed account of the entire campaign, dividing it into four stages.
  The book is illustrated and well supplied with maps.

  “Contains two appendixes: 1, Sir Douglas Haig’s second dispatch; 2,
  General Sixt von Armin’s report.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:442 Jl ‘17

  “A most lucid and instructive account with not a few fine touches; it
  is also marked by the admirable balance that places Mr Buchan above
  most war historians and chroniclers of these days.”

       + =Ath= p600 D ‘16 33w

  “Mr Buchan’s book is a recital of the field moves of an army all told
  in a calm, clear way and without passion. Then at intervals it gathers
  up its momentum of dispassion, its inertia of facts, and in some
  supreme and succinct statement of fact carries the reader to a
  conclusion that creates emotion. It is his reticence that gives one
  additional confidence in the sequence of his facts.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 550w

  “His style is simple narrative with the accent of true English
  restraint.”

       + =New Repub= 13:224 D 22 ‘17 270w

       + =N Y Times= 22:323 S 2 ‘17 220w

         =Pratt= p39 O ‘17 10w

       + =R of Rs= 56:213 Ag ‘17 90w

  “Written with the fervour and simple straight patriotism we expect
  from Mr Buchan. ... Here is the right blend of emotion and of sturdy
  common sense.”

     + + =Sat R= 122:556 D 9 ‘16 100w

  “Its main concern is to give a semitechnical account, which he
  succeeds admirably in doing, thanks in great measure to the ample
  number of maps with which the book is supplied, and which appear at
  sufficiently frequent intervals to make the text entirely
  comprehensible. ... Mr Buchan’s qualifications for his task are
  attested by his recent appointment as director of publicity in Great
  Britain.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 13 ‘17 450w

  “This is a timely narrative, very well illustrated.”

     + + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p562 N 23 ‘16 20w


=BUCHAN, JOHN.= Greenmantle. *$1.35 (1c) Doran 17-20424

  Richard Hannay, hero of the author’s first novel, “The thirty-nine
  steps,” is made the central figure in this war story. Hannay, who has
  been made a major in England’s new army, is summoned to the foreign
  office and entrusted with an important mission. He is to investigate
  the sources of a “jehad” (holy war) said to be organizing in the East.
  With three companions he gets into Germany, and out again. He then
  goes to Constantinople, and there finds what he is seeking, the woman
  who is the chief agent in fomenting rebellion in India.

  “An absorbing adventure story, not a series of ‘movie’ thrills but
  clean cut, sustained excitement.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:314 Ap ‘17

  “Mr Buchan has given us another novel, not only of vivid interest, but
  one which visualizes certain phases of the world war as only a book of
  its kind can.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 F 24 ‘17 300w

  “Although (or perhaps because) it is not a realistic war story, the
  book is a great favorite with convalescent readers at the base
  hospitals, and the fact that the author wrote it while in active
  service accounts for the vividness of some of its details.”

       + =Cleveland= p63 My ‘17 90w

  “There is no instruction in the book. ... You will just be thrilled—as
  Cooper thrilled you with his Mohicans and Dumas with his Musketeers.
  You will arise refreshed from the contemplation of great exploits
  greatly performed. And next day’s business will seem the brighter
  because for one short evening you have held commune with the
  impossible.” H. J. L.

       + =New Repub= 11:60 My 12 ‘17 950w

  “A story full of spirit and swing and high heroism. It is very much
  better than either of its author’s two previous novels, successful and
  interesting as were both those books.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:75 Mr 4 ‘17 450w

  “This is the longest of the sensational romances that Mr Buchan has
  given us since the outbreak of the war. It is also the most exciting
  and in our opinion the best.”

       + =Spec= 117:555 N 4 ‘16 850w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 18 ‘17 250w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p512 O 26 ‘16 500w


=BUCHAN, JOHN.=[2] Nelson’s history of the war; with preface by the Earl
of Rosebery. v 14-17 maps ea *60c Nelson 940.91 (War15-86)

  Volumes 1 to 13 were published in 1916. In volume 14 Mr Buchan “begins
  with General Townshend’s surrender, writes of the war in the Levant,
  of the Russian front, of the battle of Jutland, of Italy’s part, and
  ends on the second battle of Verdun.” (N Y Times) Volume 15 deals with
  Brussilov’s offensive and the intervention of Rumania. “The sixteenth
  volume is devoted entirely to the battle of the Somme. That great
  achievement is described in five chapters, the first of which is
  concerned with preliminaries. The appendixes contain Sir Douglas
  Haig’s second dispatch, and General Sixt von Armin’s report describing
  experiences of the 4th German corps during July, 1916.” (Ath) “The two
  main episodes of the seventeenth instalment are the brilliant opening
  and the disastrous sequel of Roumania’s campaign, and the heroic
  advance of the French at Verdun.” (Ath)

  “Mr Buchan’s account of the great sea-fight is a masterpiece of clear
  and sober narrative.”

       + =Ath= p551 N ‘16 200w (Review of v 14)

       + =Ath= p316 Je ‘17 70w (Review of v 16)

  “Lieut.-Col. Buchan continues, with the same mastery of detail and
  incisive style, to convert yesterday’s news into intelligible history.
  It would facilitate reference if the year, as well as the month and
  day, of the event recorded were printed oftener in the margin.”

     + — =Ath= p531 O ‘17 180w (Review of v 17)

  “He handles the intricacies of the Balkans with the same quiet
  clearness that marks his treatment of the attacks on Verdun.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:18 Ja 21 ‘17 90w (Review of v 14)

  “The most striking portion of the work is the lucid account of the
  battle of Jutland, which is described with an exemplary grasp of
  essentials. There are several diagrams.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 23 ‘17 (Review of v 14)

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p419 Ag 30 ‘17 100w (Review of v
         17)


=BUCHAN, JOHN.= Salute to adventurers. *$1.35 (1½c) Doran 17-26974

  Altho the story opens in Scotland, its scene changes shortly to
  Virginia. Young Andrew Garvald goes out to the colonies to engage in
  trade. His business takes him far away from Jamestown and the
  tidewater, back into the interior of the country, where he learns more
  of true conditions than the governor or the young gallants of his
  train will believe. The sudden outbreak of the Indians does not come
  to him without warning, and because of this he is able to rescue
  Elspeth Blair and win the reward of which he had dreamed ever since
  his first meeting with the girl in Scotland years before.

  “Good of its type, but not as good as ‘Greenmantle.’”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:130 Ja ‘18

  “It is a colorful tale, this, with plenty of action and ingenuity and
  interest, but it does not rank for a moment with ‘Greenmantle,’ either
  in its characters, its setting, or its plot.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:468 N 11 ‘17 550w

  “With its strong Scotch flavor and its tang of hazardous events, the
  book smacks strongly of Stevenson. ... Unfortunately, Mr Buchan is
  open to the criticism of which most prolific writers are deserving.
  His historical facts and background are not accurate. ... But, after
  all, the story’s the thing, and inaccuracies of this sort are
  unimportant in so gripping and adventurous a yarn.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 600w


=BUCHANAN, FLORENCE.= Home crafts of today and yesterday. (Harper’s home
economics) il *$1 (2½c) Harper 640 17-16903

  The author is instructor in handwork in the School of household
  science and arts, Pratt institute, Brooklyn. “The woman who longs to
  try something new but feels a bit vague about beginning will find
  [here] the what, the where, and the how for a variety of crafts.
  Emphasis is placed on the start rather than on detailing the technical
  processes, but enough of the latter is always given along with
  explanatory diagrams to guide a beginner through the piece of work.”
  (Preface) Linen, chair-caning, basket-planning, dyeing materials for
  and making rugs, weaving, painting and batik dyeing are among the
  subjects considered.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:80 D ‘17

  “Practical book for the home keeper who wishes suggestions for many
  kinds of handiwork.”

       + =Cleveland= p114 S ‘17 30w

         =N Y Times= 22:521 D 2 ‘17 50w

         =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:365 O ‘17 10w


=BUCHANAN, JOHN YOUNG.= Comptes rendus of observation and reasoning. il
*$2.25 Putnam 504 (Eng ed 17-18064)

  A collection of scientific papers. The author says, “As the title of
  this volume indicates, the book consists of ‘accounts rendered’ of
  work done at different times, in different places and on different
  subjects.” Among the subjects with dates of first publication are:
  Recent Antarctic exploration (1906); On ice and brines (1887); On
  steam and brines (1899); The size of the ice-grains in glaciers
  (1901); Ice and its natural history (1909); On the use of the globe in
  the study of crystallography (1895); Solar radiation (1901). Some of
  these are republished from the Proceedings of the Royal society,
  others from magazines and newspapers.

  “Mr Buchanan is a believer in original research in the full
  significance of the words, including originality in methods and point
  of view, as well as in the subject dealt with. Unlike his former
  volume of collected oceanographical papers, this collection consists
  of a selection on many subjects, scientific and popular, several
  reproduced from the pages of Nature. ... The memoirs themselves form
  solid and informing reading for students; but they are rendered
  entertaining by the extraordinarily copious analytical table of
  contents, which occupies thirty pages.” H. R. M.

       + =Nature= 99:142 Ap 19 ‘17 800w

  “A prospective reader who opens this book at the beginning will find a
  rather dull account of Antarctic exploration as it stood in 1905, with
  a reprint of chemical and physical notes for the use of explorers,
  which, however important for their particular purpose, are likely to
  bore the layman. If he then turns impatiently to the end, he will find
  some elementary remarks on such fundamental topics as the ‘power of
  Great Britain’ or the ‘House of commons,’ and he may then lay the book
  aside. But if he has the good luck to open it in the middle, he will
  probably turn over a good many pages with pleasure and profit; for Mr
  Buchanan has some interesting and important things to say on a
  fascinating topic, which makes it the more aggravating that they are
  presented in so unnecessarily unattractive a guise.”

     + — =The Times= [London] Lit Sup p173 Ap 12 ‘17 900w


=BUCK, ALBERT HENRY.= Growth of medicine from the earliest times to
about 1800. il *$5 Yale univ. press 610.9 17-5568

  “As Dr Buck has chronicled them, there are nine periods in the history
  of medicine. They are: Primitive medicine to be reckoned by thousands
  of years; the medicine of the East by which we possess only a
  fragmentary knowledge; the medicine of the classical period of
  antiquity; that of the Hippocratic writings which in Greece was the
  most flourishing period; the period during which the greatest
  intellectual activity was at Alexandria, Egypt; the medicine of Galen
  whose searching profoundly influenced the thought and practice of one
  whole civilized world of medicine up to our seventeenth century; the
  medicine of the middle ages; the medicine of the renaissance which
  brought adoption of dissection, the only effective method of studying
  anatomy; and modern medicine, in two periods, the first to about 1775.
  The second Dr Buck does not attempt to cover.” (Boston Transcript)
  “The author is consulting aural surgeon of the New York eye and ear
  infirmary.” (St Louis)

  “Especially interesting are the chapters on Oriental medicine, The
  Arab renaissance, and The advance of surgery during medieval times.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:432 Jl ‘17 (Reprinted from the Journal of the
         American Medical Association 68:1650 Je ‘17)

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 1500w

  “The book is not intended for the student of medical history, but for
  the physician who wishes to become acquainted with the essential
  phases of that earlier medicine upon which his own theory and practice
  had been built.”

       + =Nation= 105:155 Ag 9 ‘17 220w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:72 My ‘17

  “Not overburdened with detail, but presents the important facts in an
  attractive manner.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:817 D ‘17 10w

         =St Louis= 15:142 My ‘17 10w

  “Throughout the volume the reader is impressed by the clearness of
  Prof. Buck’s expression and by the overwhelming mass of facts that
  have been interestingly assembled.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 15 ‘17 1550w

  “An interesting and thought-provoking volume is this, when the
  material might easily have been treated as technical and specialized.
  The history has a social message and this not for the doctor only, but
  for every one who watches with interest all progress of matters
  medical.” G. S.

       + =Survey= 39:327 D 15 ‘17 450w

  “Dr Buck claims nothing which is not his own, and credit to
  authorities is honestly and fairly rendered, wherever due, without the
  encumbrance of footnotes. The book is printed in beautiful style.” F.
  H. Garrison

       + =Yale R= n s 7:205 O ‘17 1050w


=BUCKROSE, J. E., pseud. (MRS ANNIE EDITH [FOSTER] JAMESON=).
Matchmakers. *$1.35 (1½c) Doran 16-21706

  Peggy, daughter of the rector of Little Pendleton, is the heroine of
  this story of English village life. Little Pendleton doesn’t always
  approve of Peggy, but it has her best interests at heart and wants
  above all to see her make a good match. All the village stands back of
  the squire in his wooing, but Peggy takes the matter into her own
  hands, and altho the village is flouted in its aims it isn’t
  crestfallen. It turns squarely about and takes credit to itself for
  the success of Peggy’s marriage with young Charley Tremaine. Peggy’s
  father, the impractical rector, is made a very lovable figure, and the
  whole story is told with quiet humor.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:266 Mr ‘17

       + =Ath= p479 O ‘16 60w

  “Our greatest quarrel with the story lies in the arbitrary way in
  which the author has surmounted her difficulties in the end. It quite
  offends our sense of good story telling that with a good situation,
  instead of finding a way out of it, she should so arbitrarily go
  around it.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 F 21 ‘17 450w

       + =N Y Times= 22:47 F 11 ‘17 300w

       + =Spec= 118:241 F 24 ‘17 30w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 250w

  “A genial, placid portrayal of village life which never excites, but
  equally never bores and never offends.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p466 S 28 ‘16 70w


=BULLARD, ARTHUR.= Mobilising America. *50c (2½c) Macmillan 355.7
17-10363

  The author, having spent much time in France and England during the
  war, had begun to collect data for a book on “How democracies
  mobilise.” Some of the main points on the subject are summarised in
  this small book. He says, “I am not considering the ethics of war, nor
  the advisability of our participation in the present struggle. I
  accept the fact that we have decided to fight and I try to show how
  the experiences of other democracies can teach us the way to do it
  efficiently.” (Preface) Contents: America goes to war; Democracies as
  fighting machines; The mobilisation of public opinion; The
  mobilisation of industry; The mobilisation of men; A programme.

  “His book has the endorsement of a long list of prominent editors and
  authors, and of the conference committee of national preparedness.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:427 Jl ‘17

  “This is a tiny volume, but it is worth the intelligent perusal of
  every American citizen. It is sane, thoughtful and constructive. It
  would be of particular value in any course in government given at our
  American colleges.” D. F. G.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 8 ‘17 370w

       + =Cleveland= p77 Je ‘17 50w

       + =Ind= 90:185 Ap 21 ‘17 30w

  “One can only hope that the sanity and helpfulness of Mr Bullard’s
  fertile suggestions will not be lost in the maze of Washington
  officialdom.” H. S.

       + =New Repub= 11:166 Je 9 ‘17 950w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:90 Je ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:130 Ap 8 ‘17 830w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 10 ‘17 500w

  “Offers many of the practical suggestions which have since come from
  the visiting French and English commissions as how best to mobilize
  and conduct the war.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:182 Je ‘17 50w


=BULLITT, MRS ERNESTA DRINKER.= Uncensored diary; from the central
empires. *$1.25 (3c) Doubleday 940.91 17-10878

  A diary written, the author says, for her great grandchildren, not for
  publication. She was in Germany with her husband, a newspaper
  correspondent, in the summer of 1916. A short trip to Belgium and one
  into Austria-Hungary are recorded in the diary, but it is concerned
  for the most part with her experiences in Germany. It forms one of the
  very small number of books which tell us anything of what is going on
  within the German empire. Informal interviews and conversations with
  important officials, among them Von Bissing and Zimmermann, are
  reported, but of no less interest are the accounts of what German
  women are doing. The book also throws some light on the methods by
  which Germany is attempting to conserve her child life during war.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:394 Je ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p14 Ap 7 ‘17 680w

       + =Dial= 63:29 Je 28 ‘17 70w

  “The book is markedly good on two counts: It is written with
  freshness, with cleverness and wholesomeness and real personal charm;
  and it has things of actual interest and importance to say.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:159 Ap 22 ‘17 350w

         =Outlook= 116:75 My 9 ‘17 190w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:528 Je ‘17 40w

         =R of Rs= 55:551 My ‘17 80w


=BULLOCK, EDNA DEAN=, comp. Selected articles on single tax; 2d ed.,
rev. and enl. by Julia E. Johnsen. (Debaters’ handbook ser.) *$1.25 (1c)
Wilson, H. W. 336.2 18-397

  “Since the first publication of the Single tax handbook a fairly large
  bibliography on the subject has become available, references to which
  are included in this revised edition. The handbook is brought down to
  date by the inclusion of late reprints in the concluding pages, and by
  a revision and enlargement of the bibliography and brief.”
  (Explanatory note) The first edition, compiled by Edna D. Bullock, was
  published in 1914. The second edition has been prepared by Julia E.
  Johnsen.


=BÜLOW, BERNHARD HEINRICH MARTIN KARL, fürst von.= Imperial Germany; tr.
by Marie A. Lewenz. new and rev ed il *$2 (2c) Dodd 943 (17-5549)

  This book was first published in Germany as a section in an important
  general work compiled to commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary of
  the accession of the Emperor William II. A revised edition was
  separately published in Germany in 1916. The first edition in English
  was reviewed in the Digest for 1914. “More than one-half of the
  letterpress of the original volume has been re-written, ... and the
  new passages are indicated by brackets. The introduction by Prince
  Bülow is entirely new, and so are the two chapters on Militarism and
  the chapter on the Social Democrats, and the latter part of the
  Conclusion.” (Publishers’ note) An illuminating foreword of
  twenty-eight pages is by J. W. Headlam, who speaks of the book as
  “largely a defence and apology of von Bülow’s own action during the
  years he had held office (1897-1909), and an exposition of the
  principles by which he had been guided.”

  “One dollar cheaper than the first edition (Booklist 10:384 Je ‘14).”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:456 Jl ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 700w

  “It is admirably translated. ... Written as it is by one who, with the
  single exception of the German emperor, is more responsible than any
  other man for the present catastrophe, it is little less than a public
  duty for everyone who wishes adequately to understand the present
  situation to read it. ... Prince Bülow’s whole conception of
  international relations is based upon the terrible chimera of the
  balance of power, and he obviously considers concerted European action
  of any kind a fantastic dream. ... Such was the attitude of Prince
  Bülow in 1913. The tragedy of this new edition is the fact that not
  even the terrible experience of the last three years has led him to
  modify a single conclusion.” H. J. Laski

       + =Dial= 63:16 Je 28 ‘17 1050w

         =New Repub= 12:83 Ag 18 ‘17 160w

  Reviewed by W. C. Abbott

         =Yale R= n s 6:892 Jl ‘17 200w


=BUNNER, HENRY CUYLER.= Poems of H. C. Bunner. new ed il *$2 Scribner
811 17-24881

  H. C. Bunner, former editor of Puck, died in 1896. Lately there has
  arisen a steady demand for his writings, which resulted in the
  publication, about a year ago, of a new edition of his stories, now
  followed by his collected poems. “In the present volume are included
  the contents of the two books of verse he published during his
  lifetime, ‘Airs from Arcady’ in 1884, and ‘Rowen’ in 1892, and also a
  selection from the ‘Ballads of the town’ (which he had been
  contributing to Puck for half-a-dozen years), together with a few of
  his later lyrics and the ... lines read before the Army of the Potomac
  at New London in 1895.” (Introd.)

  “‘It is perhaps as a poet,’ writes Brander Matthews in his
  introduction to this edition, ‘that the author of “Airs from Arcady”
  is likely longest to be remembered; it is as a poet that he would have
  chosen to be cherished in men’s memories.’ And his verse met with the
  same good fortune that befell his fiction; it pleased both the
  critical and the uncritical. ... Bunner’s name stands for the light,
  delicate and whimsical. His work in prose and verse is alike beloved
  for its charm. ... Among the more serious poems is one, ‘Bismarck
  soliloquizes,’ which is a most fitting expression of men’s thoughts
  today; indeed, nothing more vigorous and condemning has been written
  by any contemporary poet on the iniquitous system of German autocracy
  than this poem of Bunner’s—written a quarter of a century ago.” W. S.
  B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p11 O 13 ‘17 1450w

  “Great metrical accomplishment is in these poems. There is such
  variety in the themes as would be expected of the poet who is also a
  journalist. Invention often flies on humor’s wing. ... It is a happy
  sign that the present hour is willing to turn back for inspiration and
  fine and perfect examples of the lighter lyrical art to the day before
  yesterday.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 18 ‘17 650w


=BUNNER, HENRY CUYLER.= Stories. 2v il ea *$1.35 (2c) Scribner

                                                            v 1 17-13500
                                                            v 2 A17-392

  Two volumes of the stories of H. C. Bunner were published last year.
  The addition of two more volumes makes complete a collection of his
  stories in four books of uniform make-up. The first of the new volumes
  contains “Short sixes” and The suburban sage; the second, More “Short
  sixes” and The runaway Browns.

  “Good paper and binding, and wide margins.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:361 My ‘17

       + =Nation= 104:346 Mr 22 ‘17 330w

  “All these gently satirical tales and the purely humorous ones are
  more worth while, incidentally, as mirrors of the past, but first and
  foremost as good short stories.” Doris Webb

       + =Pub W= 91:584 F 17 ‘17 500w


=BURBANK, EMILY.= Woman as decoration. il *$2.50 (6½c) Dodd 391 17-29164

  A book on costume, illustrated with thirty-three plates. The foreword
  says that the book is intended as a sequel to “The art of interior
  decoration,” by Grace Wood and Emily Burbank. “Having assisted in
  setting the stage for woman, the next logical step is the
  consideration of woman herself, as an important factor in the
  decorative scheme of any setting,—the vital spark to animate all
  interior decoration, private or public. ... Contemporary woman’s
  costume is considered, not as fashion, but as decorative line and
  colour.” (Foreword) The book has been planned also to meet the demand
  for a handbook on costuming for fancy dress balls, etc. The scope of
  the illustrations ranges from studies of Greek vases to portraits of
  Mrs Vernon Castle.

  “It expounds no philosophy of clothes—it is technical rather than
  philosophic—and it has no claim to being regarded as ‘literature’; and
  yet one feels that it should be recommended. It teaches the art of
  using an old weapon in a new cause.”

     + — =Dial= 63:530 N 22 ‘17 190w

         =Nation= 105:612 N 29 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:182 D ‘17 90w


=BURGESS, GELETT.= Mrs Hope’s husband. il *$1 (4c) Century 17-23049

  When Mrs Hope became a well-known novelist and was sought out by many
  clever people, her husband, an able lawyer, ceased to interest her. He
  regained her love and his own self-respect by courting her a second
  time, through letters, under an assumed name. The story is being
  dramatized by a well-known playwright.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:59 N ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 70w

  “A delightfully humorous comedy of manners and character.”

       + =Dial= 63:282 S 27 ‘17 100w

  “High-class comedy, graceful, skillful, entertaining, and always
  clever. Its skillfulness is especially manifest in the artful
  legerdemain with which the author probes into the deeps of the human
  soul without seeming to be doing more than skimming over its surface.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:322 S 2 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Burgess’s humor and satire are delightfully keen; but apart from
  this he tells a dramatic little tale that provokes a lively sympathy
  and interest throughout.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 7 ‘17 250w


=BURKE, EDWARD.= My wife. *$1.50 Dutton 17-23980

  This book is the “autobiography of a middle-aged man. Although
  outsiders show a full appreciation of his wife’s looks and good
  qualities, he imagines that he cherishes a romantic passion for a
  flame of his boyhood, till the lady in question reappears on the scene
  after twenty years, and he finds himself disillusioned concerning
  her.”—Ath

  “Clever and amusing.”

       + =Ath= p479 O ‘16 80w

  “Mr Burke’s feeling for character is almost, if not wholly, as
  noteworthy as is his quality of humor in the handling of it.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 10 ‘17 1200w

         =Dial= 64:78 Ja 17 ‘18 60w

  “Mr Burke has turned out a humorous little story that makes excellent
  reading. Despite its war atmosphere, it is done in the spirit that
  ‘while the big things crash around us, the lives of those of us who
  are out of it go on much the same.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:372 S 30 ‘17 250w


=BURKE, THOMAS.= Limehouse nights. *$1.50 (3c) McBride 17-22292

  “Limehouse, that district down by the West and East India docks, is
  not a pleasant part of London, and there is nothing pleasant about any
  one of the fourteen stories in this volume, each of which has its
  scene laid in that region. Most of them are grim tales, tales of
  cruelty, bestiality, horror, and fear.” (N Y Times) Contents: The
  Chink and the child; The father of Yoto; Gracie Goodnight; The paw;
  The cue; Beryl, the Croucher and the rest of England; The sign of the
  lamp; Tai Fu and Pansy Greers; The bird; Gina of the Chinatown; The
  knight-errant; The gorilla and the girl; Ding-Dong-Dell; Old Joe.

  “One of the most frankly and brutally realistic books that has
  appeared in our tongue in a long time. ... But such a description does
  not convey the whole truth. The fact is that Burke has cast a glamour
  over his pages that prevents his stories from being merely studies in
  the sordid and the morbid. He has seen things with sharp vision and he
  has etched them just as clearly. But somehow also he makes you feel
  that he has viewed life with pity and tenderness and loving
  comprehension.” Milton Bronner

       + =Bookm= 46:15 S ‘17 1750w

  “Not pour les jeunes, these heart-rending stories of London’s
  Chinatown; but for the stalwart reader they are full of cleansing and
  noble pity and terror. ... Amid erotomaniacs, satyrs and sadists—and
  if the full meaning of those ghastly terms escapes you, be thankful—he
  seizes scraps of splendid courage, beauty and pathos. The poor little
  gifts of those eastern pavements are the undying memory of his
  book. ... If you dare to face the human heart as it really is, do not
  miss ‘Limehouse nights.’” C. D. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 1150w

  “Mr Burke’s passing repute comes from the tales of terror which the
  libraries were compelled to bar from their shelves; but to those who
  have some respect for the English tongue and for whom Walter Pater has
  not lived in vain, Mr Burke will always possess an attraction because
  he has written well his slight sketches of London life. ... These
  ‘Limehouse nights’ appeared in three of the most interesting
  periodicals of England: the English Review, Colour, and the New
  Witness.” G. V. Seldes

 *     + =Dial= 63:65 Jl 19 ‘17 2500w

  “He has made a new sensation in war-time England, avid of spicy
  diversions. Mr Bennett has praised his book, Mr Wells has lauded its
  ‘romantic force and beauty.’ ... There is no fresh note of inspiration
  here; at best, there is a fresh trick.”

     – + =Nation= 105:317 S 20 ‘17 280w

  “The stories are well told, and have their full share of that curious
  fascination which so often goes hand in hand with horror. And here and
  there comes a touch of beauty, a glimpse of real love, like a flower
  growing from a cranny in the rocks. ... ‘The paw’ [is] an intensely
  painful tale of a tortured child—almost too painful to read. ...
  Perhaps the best of all the tales in the volume, however, is ‘The
  bird,’ a powerful imaginative story, as grim and as brutal and as
  hideous as its fellows, but with a certain artistic quality which
  lifts it above them.”

         =N Y Times= 22:303 Ag 19 ‘17 500w

  “Taken as a whole, it is one of the books that would better not have
  been written.”

     – + =Outlook= 117:64 S 12 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:748 N ‘17 60w

  “The material was so unique that we quarrel with Mr Burke’s misuse of
  it. In place of the steady, equalized light which he should have
  thrown on that pestiferous spot off the West India Dock-road, he has
  been content for the most part with flashes of limelight and
  fireworks. ... ‘The paw’ is not a story, but a piece of brutal,
  horrifying, useless writing.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p464 S 28 ‘16 750w


=BURLEIGH, LOUISE.= Community theatre in theory and practice. il *$1.50
(4½c) Little 792 17-25292

  A valuable book for students of modern drama which breathes the spirit
  of the new democracy. The writer in her first chapter quotes a
  statement of J. R. Seeley’s, “Three ties by which states are held
  together are community of race, community of religion, and community
  of interest.” In the course of a thoughtful examination she shows that
  in America today we have no community of either race or religion. She
  concludes that “for a unifying force we must find a living expression
  of a great common ideal: we must depend upon a community of interest:
  we must find an institution in which great and small can find
  expression.” The eleven chapters that follow enlarge upon the fitness
  of the community theatre to perform the desired service and the
  practical success so far achieved. Mr Percy MacKaye contributes a
  prefatory letter.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:82 D ‘17

  “‘The community theatre’ treats the drama earnestly and endearingly,
  though somewhat scrappily, from the point of view of its social
  qualities and the emotional needs of the community.” Algernon Tassin

     + — =Bookm= 46:347 N ‘17 130w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:806 D ‘17 40w

         =R of Rs= 57:108 Ja ‘18 130w

  “Miss Burleigh has produced a rather dull work about an intrinsically
  keen subject. She fails to recognize the necessary spontaneity of the
  movement. But her earnestness and enthusiasm cannot fail to win the
  reader’s own sympathy.”

     + – =Springf’d Republican= p8 O 25 ‘17 1100w


=BURNET, JOHN.= Higher education and the war. *$1.50 Macmillan 378 (Eng
ed 17-18365)

  “In his ‘Higher education and the war’ Prof. John Burnet, now dean of
  the faculty of arts in the University of St Andrews, deals primarily
  with the conditions of education in Scotland, but his observations
  bear none the less on his own university, Oxford, and indeed on our
  American institutions, to which he makes frequent reference.” (Nation)
  “He states that most of his criticisms were published in 1913 and ‘are
  not, therefore, unduly influenced by the war.’ That they have been
  somewhat influenced thereby is thus admitted; this is the chief way
  the war comes in, for the work is mainly an appreciative account of
  the German system of higher education. As such it will be useful if
  only to show those people who are ignorant of the fact ... that this
  system is more completely based on the ‘humanities’ than that of any
  other country.” (Nature)

  “The work of a master in small compass. Written with a delightful
  limpidity, in a spirit at once shrewd and idealistic, it is full of
  real knowledge and wise comment as to the working of higher education,
  not only in England and Scotland, but in Germany, in France, and in
  the United States.”

       + =Ath= p296 Je ‘17 1000w

  “An important work for educators. ... The first chapter, on German
  kultur, should be interesting to many who are not concerned with
  higher education.”

       + =Cleveland= p108 S ‘17 40w

  “This is a most thorough, sane, and scientific piece of work. ... This
  is the best work on education we have seen for a long time.” P. J.

       + =Int J Ethics= 28:289 Ja ‘18 100w

  “Not the least valuable part of the treatise is the lucid description
  of the actual scheme of studies in the German higher schools and
  universities, and the impartial analysis of the advantages and
  disadvantages of the system, with reference to the systems prevailing
  in Scotland and England. ... His arguments for the humanities, while
  neither narrow nor exaggerated, are extremely cogent.”

       + =Nation= 105:98 Jl 26 ‘17 240w

  “Like most other humanists, Prof. Burnet holds that an education based
  upon the acquisition of knowledge which is of no value in after life
  is more useful than one based on knowledge which is of permanent
  value. ... Prof. Burnet’s contentions are not without such
  discrepancies as are inseparable from the pursuit of a weak line of
  argument.” E. A. Schäfer

     – + =Nature= 99:361 Jl 5 ‘17 1500w

       + =Spec= 118:677 Je 16 ‘17 230w

  “He shows a much more intimate knowledge of the details of the German
  system than do most writers. ... Perhaps the most valuable part of the
  book is to be found in the pages in which Professor Burnet shows that,
  however in appearance the Prussian gymnasium and other schools still
  continue on the old lines, the action of the Prussian state has really
  completely changed and warped the whole spirit.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p207 My 3 ‘17 2050w


=BURNETT, FRANCES (HODGSON) (MRS STEPHEN TOWNESEND).= White people. il
*$1.20 (6c) Harper 17-5128

  A little story that touches delicately on the supernatural and
  evidence of life after death. The heroine, who spends a lonely but
  happy childhood, in an old feudal castle in Scotland, has a gift of
  seeing things denied to others. She is grown up when she first learns
  that her “white people” are not visible to other eyes. To her, thru
  this power or gift, the dead are not dead, and because of this she is
  able to bring comfort to others. The story was published in Harper’s
  Magazine, December, 1916—January, 1917.

  “Appeared in Harper’s Magazine.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:315 Ap ‘17

  “Mrs Burnett has not hitherto done anything with so sustained a note
  of simplicity and sincerity; moreover, she has here employed the
  brevity that is the test as well as the achievement of art. By this
  means she has accomplished that rare result, genuine pathos. The
  delicate, touching beauty of the one love scene, and of the closing
  chapter, is not paralleled in any of her former writings and is not
  surpassed by anything in recent fiction.”

       + =Cath World= 105:405 Je ‘17 250w

  “Mrs Burnett’s transcendentalism will probably appeal more to ‘new
  thinkers’ and the like than to those whose fancies range less freely.
  In any case one may enjoy its consistent setting, in the purple Scotch
  Highlands, and the manner of the author’s narration.”

       + =Dial= 62:314 Ap 5 ‘17 140w

       + =Ind= 90:299 My 12 ‘17 40w

       + =Lit D= 54:1087 Ap 14 ‘17 170w

  “Mrs Burnett is always a sentimentalist, but in this instance develops
  a difficult theme with a fair measure of restraint.”

       + =Nation= 104:369 Mr 29 ‘17 200w

  “A story, so simple, so natural, so humanly normal and sweet, that it
  must hold the reader by its sheer lovely closeness to the realities of
  ordinary life. Its background is exquisitely beautiful. Its theme is
  mystical. ... This challenge to the fear of death is a simple story of
  life.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:53 F 18 ‘17 500w

       + =R of Rs= 55:554 My ‘17 140w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 220w


=BURNS, CECIL DELISLE.= Greek ideals; a study of social life. *$2
Macmillan (*5s G. Bell & sons, London) 938

  “This book is mainly an attempt at an analysis of some Athenian ideals
  in the fifth century B. C. It is a brief, but lucid survey of Greek
  social life; of the Athenian religion; of the great festivals, such as
  the Anthesteria, Panathenaia, Dionysia, and Eleusinia; of the
  political ideals of Athens; of Greek moral standards; and of the
  ideals of Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle.”—Ath

         =Ath= p313 Je ‘17 80w

  “The chapter on Athenian religion is an illuminating piece of
  analysis. ... Mr Burns succeeds in making Greece live again, and this
  because he is alive himself. ... He is at his best in his criticism of
  Greek political thought.”

   + + — =Ath= p397 Ag ‘17 2000w

       + =Int J Ethics= 28:293 Ja ‘18 130w

  “To one who is fairly familiar with Greek literature, and has read
  Mahaffy on Greek life and Frazer on ancient religions, the first part
  of the book offers nothing new. It has, indeed, the defect of being
  rather too diffuse for scholars while demanding a little too much from
  the reader unversed in Greek. ... With the eighth chapter the
  discussion acquires a keener interest and a surer appeal; for here a
  certain psychological acumen with which the author is rather unusually
  gifted comes strongly into play. The analysis of the Athenian thinker
  of ‘the old school’ is both just and humorously acute. ... In the main
  an excellent description and a somewhat penetrating analysis of Greek
  moral ideas, the book is occasionally marred by a certain looseness of
  statement.”

     + — =No Am= 206:311 Ag ‘17 1250w

  “A discussion of Greek ideals, designed primarily for ordinary
  readers. It presupposes some acquaintance with Greek history and
  literature, but not necessarily a knowledge of the language. ... Mr
  Burns gives a lame excuse for his silence about the supreme artistic
  instinct of the Greeks. ... It is also a pity that he had not more
  space to deal with their religious contribution to the world’s
  inheritance. ... Further, he shows little sympathy with or
  understanding of Christian ideals, and is ready calmly to beg the most
  colossal questions. ... Then there are definite errors. ... Passages
  suggest that Mr Burns is not primarily a scholar, but a student of
  politics and morals in other fields who has interested himself in
  Greece. But they should not blind us to the merits of his book. He has
  covered much ground in a small compass. He is thoroughly alive
  himself, and treats Greece like the living force which it is. Most of
  what he says is indisputably true.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p292 Je 21 ‘17 1600w


=BURNS, ROBERT.= Sylvander and Clarinda; the love letters of Robert
Burns and Agnes M’Lehose; ed. by Amelia J. Burr. il *$1.50 Doran
17-29797

  A woman, shorn of illusions by a worthless husband, her brilliancy
  grown hard in the process, looks around for a lover “who will offer
  his passionate devotions at her shrine in the decent name of
  friendship which shall offend none of her benevolent friends. ... She
  wants a guest who will accommodate himself to the cramped quarters of
  her heart and warm them with Promethean fire.” Burns is the man she
  chooses and this volume brings together their letters extending over
  many years. The curious satisfaction which many readers find in the
  bared intimacies of literary folk shrivels before the larger privilege
  offered here of getting at Burns’s daily life, of seeing at work the
  quality of genius that gave the world some of its most human poetry.

  “To read these letters is to be in the midst of a highly entertaining
  literary achievement as well as to be witness to a lively exhibition
  of the greatest of human passions. It is a deep and moving affair
  while it lasts, but little insight is necessary to discern its
  transitoriness. ... It must not be imagined that Cupid is their sole
  hero. In fact, they plunge more than once deeply into the labyrinths
  of philosophy and religion.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 10 ‘17 1700w

         =Nation= 105:642 D 6 ‘17 40w

  “The publishers deserve hearty thanks. The book is edited with care,
  knowledge, and sympathy, and furnished with an introduction that is an
  admirable biographical essay in itself.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:448 N 4 ‘17 800w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p11 Ja 27 ‘18 500w


=BURR, AGNES RUSH.= Russell H. Conwell and his work; one man’s
interpretation of life. auth ed il *$1.35 (1½c) Winston 17-5422

  The subject of this biography is widely known as preacher, lecturer
  and teacher. His is one of those romantic, and essentially American
  stories of success won against odds. He began life on a rocky New
  England farm, worked his way thru college, served in the Civil war,
  prepared himself for the ministry and entered on a life of service
  that has brought a large measure of success. Dr Conwell’s famous
  lecture, “Acres of diamonds” is reprinted in an appendix.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:351 My ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 3 ‘17 650w

  “No other man in America, perhaps, has touched individually and
  helpfully so many lives as has Russell H. Conwell.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1710 Je 2 ‘17 170w

  “The story will inspire many a seeker after education and opportunity,
  inspire many a servant of humanity and stir the flagging spirits of
  those who faint by the way. It is a mine of material for illustration,
  anecdote and quotation.” L. A. Walker

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ap 15 ‘17 270w

       + =N Y Times= 22:533 D 2 ‘17 90w

         =St Louis= 15:186 Je ‘17 10w

  “As he is a sort of national institution, by virtue of his ubiquity on
  the lecture platform, the general public will be glad to know that an
  authorized biography has appeared.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 13 ‘17 520w


=BURROUGHS, EDWARD ARTHUR.= Fight for the future; with a foreword by the
Archbishop of Canterbury. *1s Nisbet, London

  “This is a collection of seven papers of diverse origin and for the
  most part spoken to audiences of various character. They do not,
  therefore, present a logical sequence of thought, and there are
  repetitions of ideas or phrases. But they have a unity of purpose, and
  it is rather helped than hindered by the emphasis of repetition. The
  purpose is partly to give some help towards understanding the
  religious significance of the war, and partly to urge the practical
  claims of a movement, influentially supported by the leaders of
  different religious bodies, called ‘The league of spiritual
  warfare.’”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  Reviewed by Bishop Frodsham

       + =Sat R= 122:sup3 O 14 ‘16 600w

  “An Oxford churchman and scholar has in such a crisis as the present a
  very definite task before him; and Mr Burroughs is one of those who
  have done most to show the world what that task is.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p140 Mr 23 ‘16 1000w


=BURROUGHS, EDWARD ARTHUR.= Valley of decision. *$1.60 Longmans 940.91
17-15980

  “The Rev. E. A. Burroughs, a thoroughgoing British patriot, presents
  what he calls ‘a plea for wholeness in thought and life.’ The author
  says the British people have been convicted through the lessons of the
  war of fragmentary and haphazard living, and stand in need of a
  philosophy of life. This philosophy he sees in the religion the
  British ‘have long professed and never yet practiced.’ His view is
  that the war has not disturbed the claims of Christ on the world, but
  has illustrated and reinforced them; all that remains to be done, he
  argues, is to acknowledge these claims and act accordingly.” N Y Times

         =N Y Times= 22:88 Mr 11 ‘17 100w

       + =Spec= 118:46 Ja 13 ‘17 1250w

  “This is a man who has devoted the enthusiasm of a well-stored mind
  and an evangelistic spirit to the task of helping and keeping in touch
  with men and officers—especially undergraduate officers—during their
  great ordeal at the front. ... Mr Burroughs has a message based on
  independent observation, and this gives him an ample right to be
  heard.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p572 N 30 ‘16 470w


=BURTON, RICHARD EUGENE.= Poems of earth’s meaning. *$1.25 Holt 811
17-18038

  “A midsummer memory,” the elegy in memory of Arthur Upson, published
  by Edmund D. Brooks in 1910, is reprinted as the first number in this
  volume. It is perhaps Dr Burton’s most distinguished piece of work.
  Other poems, many reprinted from Harper’s Magazine, the Atlantic
  Monthly, Bellman, and other magazines complete the book. Among them
  are a number that justify the title given to the volume. Such are: The
  earth mother, Song of the open land, Spring fantasies, Aspects of
  autumn, etc.

  “There is none of the pulsing unrest of the present in these poems,
  nor the disquieting struggle toward complete revelation which is found
  so often in the poetry of today. It brings us back quietly but
  unerringly to a realization of the strength and beauty of that which
  underlies the present and is the enduring link between the present and
  past and future. ... This collection of verse contains the best of Mr
  Burton’s poetic work during the last few years.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 30 ‘17 1250w

         =Cleveland= p120 N ‘17 140w

  “Professor Burton holds his old course thru his latest volume. He is
  untouched by recent fantasies of verse form, neither is there here any
  poem born of the war. Sincere work there is with no straining for
  emotional or linguistic effect.”

       + =Ind= 92:262 N 3 ‘17 60w

  “There is no appeal for popularity in ‘Poems of earth’s meaning,’ and
  no high poetic gifts, but a richness of thought foreign to most modern
  verse.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 S 20 ‘17 250w


=BURY, HERBERT.= Here and there in the war area. il *$1.40 (2c) Young
ch. 940.91 17-18817

  A collection of papers by the Bishop for North and Central Europe. The
  title is well chosen, as his duties have taken the author to many
  parts of the war zone. Contents: Our naval division in Holland; With
  the wounded; “Somewhere in France”; In the trenches and firing line;
  Has there been a spiritual revival? Prisoners of war; “Manfully”; How
  the permanent chaplains “carry on”; The way to Russia through Norway
  and Sweden; Russia’s two capitals; With the bishops, clergy, and
  people of Russia; “Our gallant Russian ally.”

  “During his experiences as chaplain on and near the fighting lines in
  Holland and in France Bishop Bury found the good for which he
  sought. ... Without asserting it directly, the good bishop impresses
  the reader as believing that there has really been a great spiritual
  revival on the war front. ... On the German side, also, the spirit has
  been working, fostered by the German Student Christian federation.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 14 ‘17 220w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:680 O ‘17 60w

  “He writes very pleasantly, and, if we may judge from this book, has
  carried everywhere a saving common-sense, unbounded energy, and a
  cheerful disposition.”

       + =Spec= 118:239 F 24 ‘17 110w

  “His general report on the treatment of prisoners on either side,
  which partakes of the spirit of optimism to which we have alluded,
  will repay study.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p539 N 9 ‘16 200w


=BUTLER, ELLIS PARKER.= Dominie Dean. il *$1.35 (2c) Revell 17-18164

  “Ellis Parker Butler sympathetically recounts the large difficulties
  and small triumphs of Rev. David Dean in his lifelong service to a
  Presbyterian parish in a small Mississippi river town. It is the young
  minister’s first and only charge. ... Occasional dissensions within
  the church threaten his dismissal or enforced resignation, but he
  invariably triumphs in these contests. On one occasion he foregoes a
  call to a wider and more lucrative field in order to complete the
  self-imposed task of saving a young man addicted to drink. The story
  begins before the Civil war days, extends over several decades, and
  leaves the minister an old man, poor and neglected, but still
  possessing his childlike optimism and faith.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Appeared in the Ladies Home Journal.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:25 O ‘17

  “There is more than a touch of Mark Twain in its composition, without
  the spark that vitalizes Twain’s narrative.”

     + — =Dial= 63:74 Jl 19 ‘17 70w

       + =Ind= 91:108 Jl 21 ‘17 500w

  “We feel the power of ‘Our Davy’ at home and in the church, and we
  resent the neglect and the lack of appreciation which he received, but
  the characters and events which go to make up the story have no
  vividness; they are neither real nor logically convincing.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:42 O 27 ‘17 200w

  “Though Mr Butler’s people are by no means badly drawn, they are not
  sufficiently well drawn to carry a book of this type, a book which
  depends altogether upon characterization. Even David Dean himself,
  carefully as he has been studied, does not win as much as he should of
  the reader’s affection and sympathy.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:265 Jl 15 ‘17 300w

  “The author makes Dean a lovable, appealing personality, and
  effectively brings out the injustice of leaving pastors to want in
  their old age after a lifetime of unselfish service to their
  congregations. It is a well-told and very interesting story.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 350w


=BUTLER, NICHOLAS MURRAY.= World in ferment. *$1.25 (3c) Scribner 940.91
17-21930

  These seventeen “interpretations of the war for a new world” were
  delivered by the president of Columbia university between September
  23, 1914 and June 6, 1917. They, therefore, follow the development of
  his thought during the years of the great war. In his introduction Dr
  Butler states: that this “is a war for a new international world and a
  war for a new intranational world. It is to be hoped that the new
  world will come to an understanding with itself about peace. ... Peace
  is not an ideal at all; it is a state attendant upon the achievement
  of an ideal. The ideal itself is human liberty, justice, and the
  honorable conduct of an orderly and humane society. Given this, a
  durable peace follows naturally as a matter of course.” Among the
  addresses are: Higher preparedness; Nationality and beyond; Is America
  drifting? The Russian revolution; The call to service; The
  international mind: how to develop it; A world in ferment. The book is
  indexed.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:41 N ‘17

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

       + =Bookm= 46:289 N ‘17 30w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 430w

  “He takes refuge in general statements, for the more general your
  statements the more noble they may be made to seem. His volume,
  therefore, is interesting not for any interpretation of our time so
  much as for its revelation of an anachronism—the florid oratorical
  mind still at work in the years 1914-17.”

       — =Dial= 64:30 Ja 3 ‘18 210w

         =Ind= 91:512 S 29 ‘17 100w

  “It is a tribute to President Butler’s essential statesmanship that
  these papers, delivered under such varying conditions, sustain as well
  as they do the test of reprinting. Few collections covering a like
  period contain so much that has proved true and wise, or, being still
  in the future, is still likely to justify the author.”

       + =Lit D= 55:39 O 13 ‘17 220w

  “The president of Columbia has much skill in phrasing sententious
  platitudes, especially regarding the moral aspects of business or
  politics. We commend this volume of addresses to all who feel that
  they ought to take the world seriously, but who at the same time
  cannot bring themselves to think very deeply about it.”

       — =Nation= 106:69 Ja 17 ‘18 570w

  “President Butler seems enamored of this utopianism of language, by
  means of which the specific difficulties of a problem are resolved in
  an elaborate statement of the good effects which will inevitably flow
  from its perfect solution. In reading President Butler one aches for a
  specific, quantitative recommendation as one aches at a Debussy opera
  for a whole tone.”

       — =New Repub= 12:251 S 29 ‘17 500w

  “We have gone over these essays carefully, and, though we regret to
  return empty handed, we must sorrowfully admit that there does not
  seem to be anything very original or striking in any of them, though
  perhaps they may be regarded as good, sound, practical common sense,
  as that rather indefinable quantity is regarded today.” Joshua Wanhope

       — =NY Call= p14 O 28 ‘17 460w

  “His presentation and argument are very interesting. And his repeated
  warning to the American people that as they move forward in this new
  direction they must keep in mind their old ideals, is of the highest
  consequence. There are many suggestions and brief discussions of the
  means by which the movement of the nations toward closer and more
  harmonious co-operation can be encouraged and facilitated, so many,
  indeed, that this idea becomes, especially with reference to America’s
  part in that movement, the dominating note of the book.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:301 Ag 19 ‘17 800w

  “Without any shrinking from grim facts and without any flamboyance of
  emotional or self-laudatory patriotism, the author makes one see a
  better future for the world as something real and tangible and within
  reasonable expectation, and he sets forth the part that this country
  is to play in helping on the coming of a new and better order, with a
  clearness and sanity that makes national duty seem near and feasible
  and attractive.”

       + =No Am= 206:799 N ‘17 320w

       + =Spec= 119:329 S 29 ‘17 760w

  “In these days when history is being made and remade in so short
  spaces of time, a book such as this soon loses whatever initial
  starting-point it may have adopted, simply for the reason that the
  events with which it deals are soon left in the background, displaced
  by newer developments.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 190w


=BUTLER, SAMUEL.= Notebooks, new ed *$2 Dutton 824

  The book “gives the tang of Butler’s personality, and presents in
  fairly compact form his comment upon man, morality, memory and design,
  mind and matter, pictures, books, music, cash, religion, travel,
  truth, translation, etc. ... He recorded his observations; he tried
  their effect in conversation; he rewrote them; he drew upon his store
  for his published books; he collected and indexed them. After his
  death, his friend Henry Festing Jones sorted and rearranged and
  expurgated them, and brought them out in 1912. Dutton republishes the
  volume with a brief appreciative introduction by Francis
  Hackett.”—Nation

         =A L A Bkl= 14:120 Ja ‘18

  “It used to be a boyhood stunt to stand on your hands and see the
  world upside down. Butler knew the trick well and did a deal of
  walking on his hands through our world of conventions. His books are
  integrated visions of the world thus viewed—‘The way of all flesh,’ of
  marriage and the family; ‘Erewhon,’ of the daily life of the
  English-speaking world; ‘Life and habit’ and ‘Evolution, old and new,’
  of Darwinism; ‘The fair haven,’ of Christianity. ... The ‘Note-books,’
  is a museum of thoughts caught on the wing. ... To thinking men and
  women, providing they are not too old in spirit, Butler speaks with
  vital directness. Not that he formulates a philosophy or solves
  problems or teems with information. Exactly not that. One does not
  accumulate: one expands. One does not become a little Butler but a
  larger self.” M. C. Otto

       + =Dial= 63:106 Ag 16 ‘17 3100w

   + + — =Nation= 105:98 Jl 26 ‘17 400w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:746 N ‘17 70w

         =R of Rs= 56:104 Jl ‘17 230w

  “Butler was the precursor of the critical and ironical reasoning to
  which religious and moral conceptions are subjected nowadays by
  writers of the type of Messrs Shaw and Wells. ... As an expression of
  personality, and pungent, individual thinking the ‘Notebooks’ continue
  to be worth reading, though the criticism of society, and in
  particular of the church, is much less effective than in ‘The way of
  all flesh.’”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 330w


=BYNE, ARTHUR, and STAPLEY, MILDRED.= Spanish architecture of the
sixteenth century; general view of the Plateresque and Herrera styles.
(Hispanic soc. of Am. Pub. no. 109) il *$7.50 (11c) Putnam 724 17-11801

  Spanish renaissance or Plateresque architecture which forms the
  subject of this book is, the authors say, a distinct product from that
  “picturesque, semi-Moorish stucco architecture” of Andalusia which was
  introduced into Spanish America and which is now usually accepted as
  typically Spanish. The Plateresque style flourished chiefly in Castile
  and the purpose of this book is “to increase the appreciation of what
  was done in Castile, to point out its charm, and to give the student
  some idea of what awaits him in Spain.” The book is illustrated with
  eighty plates and one hundred and forty other pictures in the text.

  “This book is stated to be the first to appear on renaissance
  architecture in Spain. The change from the Plateresque to a more
  frigid style under the chilling influence of Philip II is well
  described in chaps. 13 and 14, the latter including an interesting
  account and an impressive view of the vast and gloomy Escorial.”

       + =Ath= p360 Jl ‘17 150w

  “The book is illustrated with eighty full-page plates and 140
  text-illustrations and these, without the accompanying inscriptions,
  give an intimate notion of the richness of the churches, palaces, and
  houses of Spain. ... A good many Spanish terms are used but they are
  all explained and the book is filled with thrilling bits of history.
  It is a rare addition to the literature of architecture.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 6 ‘17 370w

  “The book must take an honored place in every architectural library
  with any pretense to completeness. Not only does the volume contain
  more than two hundred illustrations, but many of these are carefully
  measured drawings, the value of which, to an architect, is greater
  than any photograph, however good. The text is historical as regards
  the style, biographical as regards its most famous practitioners, and
  critical in the discussion of the more famous buildings.” Claude
  Bragdon

       + =Dial= 63:17 Je 28 ‘17 1200w

  “The discussion is not at all popular, indeed it is almost severely
  technical. The unprofessional reader requires at hand a dictionary of
  architectural terms to gain an adequate comprehension of the
  volume. ... The publishers have given us a volume worthy of their
  reputation, substantially bound in buckram. To own it is a pleasure;
  to comprehend it, a full recompense for the effort expended.”

       + =Lit D= 54:2006 Je 30 ‘17 270w

  “Their work is a welcome addition to the literature of architecture in
  a sadly neglected field. The architect who has Prentice’s invaluable
  folio volume of plates and this excellent history to go with it,
  possesses the material for acquiring an intelligent appreciation of a
  most interesting phase of the history of the renaissance in western
  Europe.”

       + =Nation= 105:70 Jl 19 ‘17 900w

  “Its pages are refreshing in their clear revelation of personal
  contact with the country and race, and of the intimate connection
  between these and the architecture.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:390 O 7 ‘17 500w

  “A rich find for students of architecture.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:218 Ag ‘17 130w

     * + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p295 Je 21 ‘17 1400w


=BYNNER, WITTER.= Grenstone poems; a sequence. *$1.35 Stokes 811
17-25234

  “Many a glimpse in Mr Bynner’s poems localizes the habitation of
  Grenstone up under the shadow of Mt. Monadnock, but the name
  symbolizes more than a place in the poet’s singing; it is the
  deification of experience finding love, losing its earthly presence,
  and gaining above all the indestructible sustenance and faith of
  realities beyond the world. This is the golden thread upon which all
  these lyrics are hung.”—Boston Transcript

  “His love and joy and grief and faith are expressed with much delicacy
  and spirituality.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:85 D ‘17

  “The mistake has been made that poets almost universally make, of
  putting in much that is ephemeral and irrelevant to the real soul
  of the book, thus obscuring that precious and intrinsic
  quality—personality. It is in an epigrammatic lyric, of a peculiar
  pith and pungency, and often informed with a whimsical humour,
  that Mr Bynner seems to me to be most wholly himself.” J. B.
  Rittenhouse

     + — =Bookm= 46:440 D ‘17 930w

  “There is the suggestion here of a new Dante and a new Beatrice, in
  the poet’s relation to Celia. ... Nearly two hundred lyrics, touching
  upon an infinite variety of moods and subjects, more subtle and simply
  wrought, more instinct with genuine flashes of lyric beauty,
  subjective in the best traditional manner of English verse, than any
  collection produced since the present revival of poetry came into
  being.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p11 O 6 ‘17 780w

  “Charming and delicate as the poems are, full of whim and fancy and
  loveliness, they are imbued above all with Bynner’s ordered passion
  for simplicity. It seems to me that he is sometimes almost
  mathematical in the development of his simplicity. He loves to strike
  poetic balances and make poetic classifications—almost to replace
  poetry by a lengthened epigram. My only wish is that he would content
  himself with being a very good and growing poet, instead of tending to
  preoccupy himself with a theory. His gift is sufficient, if he will
  permit it, to stand above theories.” Swinburne Hale

     + — =Dial= 64:23 Ja 3 ‘18 1450w

         =Ind= 92:63 O 6 ‘17 50w

  “A volume overflowing with lyric beauty. Pure and strong passion, a
  keen sense of melody, epigrammatic deftness of phrase—these are among
  Mr Bynner’s gifts.”

       + =Lit D= 55:32 N 3 ‘17 360w

  “One of the most effective things in the arrangement is the way it
  builds up to the final ‘Behold the man’:

                   Behold the man alive in me,
                     Behold the man in you!
                   If there is God—am I not he?—
                     Shall I myself undo?

                   I have been awaiting long enough
                     Impossible gods, goodby!
                   I wait no more ... The way is rough—
                     But the god who climbs is I.

  This last line is humanity’s motto today; and its author is one of the
  leading interpreters of the climbing.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p16 Ja 19 ‘18 530w

  “Though he has failed in his main purpose, however, it is to be
  remarked that scattered here and there throughout the book are many
  charming lyrics quite in his usual satisfying manner. Of these,
  ‘Mercy,’ ‘An old elegy,’ and ‘The heart of gold’ are particularly
  fine.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:436 O 28 ‘17 550w

  “He has not, to be sure, the depth of background of Edwin Arlington
  Robinson and some others. But he now proves himself a genuine poet of
  beauty”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 18 ‘17 400w


=BYRNE, LAWRENCE, pseud.= American ambassador. *$1.35 (1½c) Scribner
17-13818

  The publishers say that the author of this novel is an American
  diplomatist who prefers to write under a pseudonym. The story is told
  in the first person by a young man who has just been engaged as
  private secretary to a newly appointed ambassador to one of the
  European courts. He begins his duties by falling promptly in love with
  the ambassador’s daughter. Kate Colborne, like her father, is
  wholesomely frank and American, but Mrs Colborne, her step-mother, is
  one of those Americans who crave social prestige and bow down before a
  title. An important cablegram from the State department at Washington
  is stolen from the ambassador’s desk. To save her father from possible
  ruin, Kate engages herself to Comte de Stanlau, the man who seems to
  hold his fate in his hands. The mystery of the lost cablegram is
  explained; the ambassador wins a triumph for himself and his country,
  and Kate’s affairs are settled happily for the young man who is
  telling the story. The background of the story is necessarily
  indefinite, as the European country concerned is not named.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:26 O ‘17

  “There is a love story running through the book which increases the
  excitement of its episodes and helps round out the plot. It is well
  written, and the fine picture it presents of an American diplomat
  should come at an opportune moment.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 9 ‘17 950w

         =Cath World= 105:842 S ‘17 70w

  “‘You rarely see an American man who looks as if he had ancestors. We
  usually appear to have been made in a hurry.’ Thus Mr Lawrence Byrne
  sums up, unconsciously, the fault of his novel.”

       — =Dial= 62:528 Je 14 ‘17 80w

  “Comes down to a Zenda story with realistic touches. ... The American
  ambassador is the plain, blunt hustler from ‘back home,’ who drags at
  each remove a lengthening chain of ignorances and complacencies.”

         =Nation= 105:16 Jl 5 ‘17 150w

  “We venture to assert that the writer who signs himself ‘Lawrence
  Byrne’ is personally familiar with the ways of embassies. ‘The
  American ambassador’ is written with a seemingly unconsidered mastery
  of small detail that gives the book background, charmingly.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:194 My 20 ‘17 480w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 350w




                                   C


=CABELL, JAMES BRANCH.= Cream of the jest; a comedy of evasions. *$1.35
(3c) McBride 17-24970

  Mr Cabell’s story will provide a new sensation for the satiated novel
  reader. The reader, however, must not be the matter-of-fact sort who
  has lost faith in human dreams. The pendulum of the story swings
  leisurely between the two existences of Felix Kennaston. In one, as
  Kennaston, with two motors and money in four banks, he lives a life
  that “his body is shuffling thru aimlessly.” While in this atmosphere
  of action and the commonplace, he bores himself and others, including
  a rather worldly minded, otherwise estimable wife. But as Horvendile,
  the hero of his own book, the dreamer, “he lives among such gallant
  circumstances as he had always hoped his real life might provide
  to-morrow.” As a part of his mental diversions, he abandons himself to
  “delicious and perilous frolics” with Etarre, the heroine of his book,
  who symbolizes the ageless, deathless ideal of woman. The delicacy of
  touch and the classic atmosphere of the dream episodes give charm and
  distinction to the tale.

  “People who have a great respect for gas and none at all for
  moonshine, for whom half-shades are non-existent and dreams mere
  nonsense, will do well to pass it by.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:380 O 7 ‘17 400w

  “Both for its originality and literary value the book is notable.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 380w


=CABLE, BOYD, pseud.= Grapes of wrath. il *$1.50 (3c) Dutton 17-13446

  Altho Mr Cable’s story is based on the battle of the Somme, he warns
  the reader that it is not to be taken as an authentic historical
  account. He says, “My ambition was the much lesser one of describing
  as well as I could what a Big Push is like from the point of view of
  an ordinary average infantry private. ... I have tried to put into
  words merely the sort of story that might and could be told by
  thousands of our men to-day.” Four men, fellow soldiers and close
  friends, are the heroes of the tale. Three of them are Englishmen,
  drawn from different social ranks. One is an American.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:448 Jl ‘17

       + =Ath= p204 Ap ‘17 80w

  “The story is told in a vigorous, straightforward way without false
  sentiment or pretentious effort. That no one who starts it will be
  likely to set it down unfinished is sufficient comment on its worth.”
  R. W.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 430w

  “As big as its theme and as moving.”

       + =Cath World= 105:551 Jl ‘17 250w

         =Dial= 63:219 S 13 ‘17 340w

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 80w

  “So does the great American hymn give title and summing up to this
  picture of the army of one of our allies, a picture etched with steel
  in lines of fire and blood and heroism unsurpassed. ‘Grapes of wrath’
  is indeed a memorable book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:158 Ap 22 ‘17 700w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:528 Je ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p39 O ‘17 20w

       + =R of Rs= 55:669 Je ‘17 60w

       + =Spec= 118:341 Mr 17 ‘17 700w

  “One who wishes to learn about war as it is fought will do well to
  read it, for no other among the host of war books explains this phase
  of it so well or even seeks to.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 5 ‘17 300w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p107 Mr 1 ‘17 120w


=CADE, COULSON T.= Dandelions. *$1.50 (1½c) Knopf 17-19507

  “‘Dandelions’ is a first novel. A story of heredity, its thesis seems
  to be that education, no matter how excellent or how careful, is of
  little influence when opposed to the force of inherited qualities. The
  two principal characters in the book are a father and son; the father,
  Sir Harold Carne, makes idle love to the pretty daughter of the
  village innkeeper. Later he marries and has a legitimate son, whom we
  leave as, at about eighteen, he is taking his first step along the
  road trodden by his father.”—N Y Times

  “It is a very singular story, with no trace of the characteristics of
  contemporary fiction. It might have been written in the days of
  Fielding, although fortunately it is of a reasonable length. The
  average reader of ‘best sellers’ and ‘glad’ books may turn from
  ‘Dandelions’ with signs of ennui. But its publisher as well as its
  author are to be sincerely congratulated. It has distinguished
  literary merit.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 400w

  “There is charm and to spare in the pictures of English country life
  that are presented in dissolving succession. But the machinery of Mr
  Cade’s narrative rumbles and groans too audibly at too frequent
  intervals; the plot is superficial, even flimsy, and the
  characterization shallow.”

     – + =Dial= 63:403 O 25 ‘17 180w

  “A story of odd and vaguely reminiscent flavor—Peacockian, if we were
  to give it a name. Its quaint style, its sly humor, recall the author
  of ‘Headlong hall’ and ‘Gryll grange.’ It is all mildly amusing, and a
  trifle wicked, ending on a note of what on the whole deserves to be
  called malice rather than irony.”

         =Nation= 105:149 Ag 9 ‘17 140w

  “The descriptions of the English countryside are very much the best
  part of the book—far better than the dialogue, which is often
  ‘bookish’ rather than natural, or the story, which is not particularly
  interesting. This new writer is not without gifts, but he should learn
  to restrain his tendency to verbiage.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:266 Jl 15 ‘17 400w

  “The one thing lacking in Mr Cade’s novel is a point of view. ... We
  are offered neither a moral idea nor a wholly consistent tale.
  Otherwise this is a well-written and amusing book. ... Mr Cade’s work
  will be worth watching. He can put colour into it without letting it
  get loud; he likes a dash of oddity, but keeps his people human.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p32 Ja 18 ‘17 600w


=CADY, MRS BERTHA LOUISE (CHAPMAN), and CADY, VERNON MOSHER.= Way life
begins. (Serial pub. no. 85) il $1 Am. social hygiene assn. 570 17-4856

  This introduction to sex education, intended for parents and teachers,
  regards nature study as the logical means of approach to the subject.
  Dr William Freeman Snow in his foreword, says that the book has been
  prepared to meet the demand for “a simple, scientifically accurate
  book on the subject of the way plant, animal, and human life begins,
  written in an interesting, non-technical way, and with adequate
  illustration.” The arrangement of material is shown by the table of
  contents: The deeper meaning of nature study; The lily; The moth; The
  fish; The frog; The chick; The rabbit; The child; Nature study and the
  personal problems of life. The book is illustrated with nine plates
  and other figures in the text.

  “The last chapter on ‘Nature study and the personal problems of life’
  is a sane summing up of the attitude the parent or teacher ought to
  take toward this important subject.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:335 My ‘17

       + =Ind= 89:559 Mr 26 ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p19 O ‘17 30w

  “The tone is sweet and constructive—spiritual, in the finest sense of
  the word. One is pretty well justified in saying that while it is not
  the only useful and commendable book in its field, it is beyond any
  question the best.” J: P. Gavit

       + =Survey= 38:423 Ag 11 ‘17 500w


=CAFFIN, CHARLES HENRY.= How to study architecture. il *$3.50 (2½c) Dodd
720.9 17-24868

  This book is an attempt, by an art critic, “to trace the evolution of
  architecture as the product and expression of successive phases of
  civilisation.” (Sub-title) Each chapter, or group of chapters, on the
  architecture of a period, is preceded by a chapter on the civilization
  of which it was a product. Book 1 is introductory; the remaining six
  books deal respectively with the pre-classic, classic, post-classic,
  Gothic, renaissance, and post-renaissance periods of architecture.
  There is a two-page bibliography, which follows the glossary and
  index. The book is illustrated with numerous plates.

  “Each type is well illustrated.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:48 N ‘17

  “A good handbook is a valuable and welcome addition to the
  understanding of a given art, and Mr Caffin’s work in this case is
  well done and has the virtue of being readable and not a bore. He is,
  from long practice, an essayist on this and similar themes who knows
  how to write and so spares us the ennui which is immemorially
  associated with works of reference. In his statement as to what has
  been done and is doing of late years in the United States, it would
  seem as if the treatment were a little sketchy, because it is centered
  in New York city.” R: Burton

     + — =Bookm= 46:479 D ‘17 450w

         =Dial= 63:527 N 22 ‘17 500w

  “The field covered is so wide ... that a certain congestion of
  statement was, perhaps, inevitable. ... By its inclusiveness and the
  abundance of its modern material it fills an empty place in the
  literature of its subject.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:368 S 30 ‘17 190w

  “To teachers and students the cohesion shown between art principles
  and their historical manifestations has particular value, and to
  readers generally the subject and its treatment provides the appeal of
  romance as well as instruction and an opportunity to develop critical
  appreciation.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 17:274 F ‘18 310w


=CAHAN, ABRAHAM.= Rise of David Levinsky. *$1.60 (1c) Harper 17-23760

  In this novel, a Russian Jew who came to America in 1885, at the age
  of twenty, tells his own story. About eighty pages deal with ghetto
  life in Russia, the rest of the action passes in America. Though he
  has been educated in a Talmudic seminary, David tries first to earn a
  living in New York as a peddler. Failing in this, he becomes an
  operator in a clothing factory, with the idea of earning enough money
  to put himself through the City college. An accident changes his dream
  and he starts out as a manufacturer in the business he has now
  learned. He steals designs, cheats the union and indulges in other
  dishonest business practices; but he makes his pile. The story of his
  relations with various women is given, and especially with the three
  he loved: Matilda, his first love; Dora, the wife of his friend, Max
  Margolis, and Anna Tevkin, socialist daughter of a Hebrew poet. David
  does not marry, and we leave him at the end of the story sensitive,
  sensual, desperately lonely, finding business “good sport,” but
  confessing that there is one thing which he craves and “which money
  cannot buy—happiness.” The story is marred by occasional vulgarities.
  The author is the editor-in-chief of the Jewish Daily Forward and is
  the author of “Yekl, a tale of the New York ghetto” and other works.

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:338 N ‘17 100w

  “As he approaches sixty, Mr Cahan gives us this solid, mature novel,
  into which are compacted the reflections of a lifetime. The vanity of
  great riches was never set forth with more searching sincerity. ... As
  a matter of biography, he is a child of Russian literature. And that
  is why his novel, written in faultless English, is a singular and
  solitary performance in American fiction.” J: Macy

       + =Dial= 63:521 N 22 ‘17 1750w

         =Nation= 105:432 O 18 ‘17 500w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Nation= 105:600 N 29 ‘17 150w

  “One of the most impressive novels produced in America in many a day.”
  R. B.

       + =New Repub= 14:31 F 2 ‘18 650w

  “The tale of Levinsky is, incidentally, the tale of the cloak industry
  in this country; of the methods by which a dominating personality
  achieves his financial success. But its revelations in this regard are
  as far from mere muckraking as are Cahan’s pictures of the cloak
  makers from mere propaganda. ... It is written with a clarity that is
  French, a chaste realism that is Russo-Yiddish, and a deep human
  insight that render it universal.” Isaac Goldberg

       + =N Y Call= p15 S 23 ‘17 700w

  “No phase of modern life betrays the cheapness and shams of
  capitalistic culture more strikingly than does the literature of
  today. Happily, however, there are some few exceptions, and Cahan is
  one of these. His ‘Rise of David Levinsky’ is not a commodity, but a
  piece of art, full of life’s unvarnished truths.”

       + =N Y Call= p15 O 7 ‘17 1500w

  “‘The rise of David Levinsky’ is not a pleasant book, nor is David
  himself an especially likeable or appealing individual. His very soul
  is stripped bare before us; we know him intimately, but it cannot be
  said that to know him is to love him. Yet he often excites our
  pity. ... The dominant quality in this novel is the effect it gives of
  being altogether real. Whether the scene be laid in the Russian ghetto
  or the big expensive hotel in the Catskills where rich Jews
  congregated, whether it is in the Division street factory or David’s
  fine place on Fifth avenue, this sense of reality is always
  present. ... In this story of ‘The rise’ of one individual is pictured
  the development of an entire class, as well as of what has become one
  of the great industries of the country.”

         =N Y Times= 22:341 S 16 ‘17 1200w

  “As a story for the story’s sake the novel is much less important than
  as a study of a people whose qualities and experiences are to be
  increasingly important in American life.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 550w

  “Had the book been published anonymously, we might have taken it for a
  cruel caricature of a hated race by some anti-Semite. It will be taken
  by an already critical outer world as a picture of Jewish life in
  general. It really is not.” K. H. Claghorn

     – + =Survey= 39:260 D 1 ‘17 350w


=CALHOUN, ARTHUR WALLACE.= Social history of the American family from
colonial times to the present. 3v v 1 $5 Clark, A. H. 392.3 17-23329

  “The first volume of ‘A social history of the American family’ devotes
  a chapter to sexual codes and customs in the European countries which
  furnished colonists to the new world and then traces their
  modification and development in the thirteen English colonies down to
  revolutionary times.” (Ind) “Three volumes are contemplated, the
  second bringing the history through the Civil war period; the third
  focussing its attention on the present generation.” (Cath World)

  “In addition to the value of this material as social history, all of
  it makes the most interesting reading, and some of it is unsurpassed
  as the richest kind of humor.” F. W. C.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p11 N 28 ‘17 750w

  “Dr Calhoun, despite his avowed intention not to exaggerate in this
  direction, does, we think, lay too much stress at times on the
  ‘economic interpretation’ of life. ... But on the whole, Dr Calhoun is
  clear-sighted and open-minded. He has, for instance, the courage to
  show what dire fruits the reformation and the loose moral teaching of
  Luther have borne to the world.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:263 N ‘17 350w

  “The volume shows evidence of great research and contains a full
  bibliography.”

       + =Ind= 92:193 O 27 ‘17 60w

  “The publishers have given an excellent page on attractive and
  substantial paper in a serviceable cover.”

       + =Lit D= 55:43 N 17 ‘17 500w

  “American history is being rewritten by the scientific historians, and
  this volume is a valuable addition to the rich contributions that have
  been made in recent years.” James Oneal

       + =N Y Call= p15 N 11 ‘17 1100w


=CALHOUN, DOROTHY DONNELL.= Princess of Let’s Pretend. il *$1.50 Dutton
16-25148

  “The first story is called ‘The story of the enchanted leg’; it tells
  how a fairy came to Gert van Vent and took charge of his wooden leg,
  thus bringing happiness to his daughter. ‘Damon and Pythias’ relates
  the old legend in terms of childhood. ‘The merry monarch’ makes a
  cobbler king for the day to the great amusement of the court. ... ‘The
  princess of Let’s Pretend’ contains several other stories, touching on
  a variety of subjects. Even a baseball story adorns the volume.”—N Y
  Times

  “The illustrations are novel, being photographs chosen from moving
  picture films; but their realism will disappoint the childish
  imagination, which can far more aptly picture its own fairy world.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:556 Jl ‘17 60w

  “A delightful collection of stories. They are simply told and sure of
  entertaining the little folk.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:224 Je 10 ‘17 170w

  “Obviously intended for children from eight to ten or twelve.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 13 ‘17 150w


=CALKINS, GARY NATHAN.= Biology. 2d ed rev and enl il $1.80 Holt 570
17-25304

  “In the present edition, although there is no change in the method by
  which the subject of biology is developed, there are many changes in
  the text, some parts being condensed, others elaborated, in the
  interest of clearness. Apart from verbal improvements throughout the
  book, the most important alterations and additions have been made in
  connection with the subjects of fermentation and enzyme activities;
  the significance of conjugation; plants, the food of animals;
  photosynthesis; circulation in the earthworm; and immunity. Three
  figures in the first edition (numbers 6, 21, and 39) have been
  replaced by more instructive illustrations, and in all cases where
  necessary, the legends have been amplified. The glossary, which was
  introduced with the second printing of the first edition, is
  considerably enlarged, and a bibliography added.” (Preface to the
  second edition)

       + =Educ R= 55:79 Ja ‘18 30w


=CALVERT, MRS AMELIA CATHERINE (SMITH), and CALVERT, PHILIP POWELL.=
Year of Costa Rican natural history. il *$3 Macmillan 508.728 17-6345

  “The primary concern of the authors in visiting Costa Rica was a study
  of dragon flies with reference to their seasonal distribution. The
  book has little to say on that subject, however, because their
  investigations along that line are not completed. It is devoted mainly
  to the little republic itself. Describing the daily life in town and
  country, the authors always have a quick eye for its trees, plants,
  and animal and insect life.”—N Y Times

  “It is abundantly illustrated and will interest tourists and students
  of general and commercial conditions. Bibliography (30p.).”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:381 Je ‘17

  “Here lies the drawback of the book; although so full of information,
  there are but few chapters to be enjoyed by the general reader, who,
  taking the detail, much of which is unavoidably technical, for
  granted, would relish some more comprehensive generalised descriptions
  as characteristic of the country.”

     + — =Nature= 100:323 D 27 ‘17 650w

         =N Y Br Lib= News 4:59 Ap ‘17

  “The result of their observations is set forth with a skill and
  all-embracing perception only possible to writers who are able to
  catalogue definitely in their minds what has come under their notice.
  It is all told in an impressive volume of 577 pages.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:196 My 20 ‘17 190w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:655 O ‘17 30w

  “The style in which this almost inexhaustible store of material has
  been presented renders the book readable throughout.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:216 Ag ‘17 330w

         =St Louis= 15:140 My ‘17

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 2 ‘17 250w


Cambridge history of American literature. 3v v 1 *$3.50 (3c) Putnam
810.9 (17-30257)

  =v 1= Colonial and revolutionary literature; Early national
  literature: Part 1.

  The Cambridge history of American literature, edited by William
  Peterfield Trent, of Columbia, John Erskine, of Columbia, Stuart P.
  Sherman, of the University of Illinois, and Carl Van Doren, headmaster
  of the Brearley school, will be complete in three volumes. Volume 1
  covers Colonial and revolutionary literature and Early national
  literature, part 1, ending with a study of Emerson. The distinctive
  features of the work as a whole are enumerated by the editors: “(1) It
  is on a larger scale than any of its predecessors ...; (2) It is the
  first history of American literature composed with the collaboration
  of a numerous body of scholars from every section of the United States
  and from Canada; (3) It will provide for the first time an extensive
  bibliography for all periods and subjects treated; (4) It will be a
  survey of the life of the American people as expressed in their
  writings rather than a history of belles-lettres alone.” (Preface) As
  in the “Cambridge history of English literature,” the bibliographies,
  arranged at the close, are extensive.

         =Boston Transcript= p8 N 17 ‘17 1200w

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 8 ‘17 730w

  “A chapter on transcendentalism by Professor Goddard, of Swarthmore
  college, is one of the best pieces of work in the volume. ... Now that
  the foundations of the history are laid, perhaps the superstructure
  will exhibit a lighter and more attractive aspect. One would welcome a
  smaller measure of compilation and a larger manifestation of the
  critical and the appreciatory.”

     + — =Dial= 63:646 D 20 ‘17 340w

  “Tho the chapters on Franklin and Emerson are very well done, perhaps
  the most delightful chapter in the whole volume is that on Washington
  Irving, by Major George Haven Putnam.”

       + =Lit D= 56:34 Ja 12 ‘18 380w

  “A valuable, comprehensive, and from beginning to end a most
  interesting book. Emphasis must be laid upon the care and detail which
  the authors and editors have devoted to the early literature of our
  land. ‘The Cambridge History of American literature’ is a book of the
  utmost importance.”

   + + — =N Y Times= 22:497 N 25 ‘17 1500w

       + =Outlook= 117:653 D 19 ‘17 90w

       + =R of Rs= 57:216 F ‘18 170w

  “The editors have plainly worked in harmony, and, what is more, they
  have plainly tried to harmonize the work of their contributors. In one
  or two of the chapters there is excessive individualism in the
  interpretation; and even a few foolish statements can be found. But,
  in the main, the contributors have worked upon a basis of facts and
  have sought to study the relations between facts. It is to be
  regretted where so much space is devoted to bibliographies, that they
  are less exhaustive than cooperative scholarship might make them.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 1600w


Cambridge history of English literature; ed. by A. W: Ward and A. R.
Waller. 14v v 13-14 ea *$2.75 (1½c) Putnam 820.9 (7-40854)

  =v 13-14= Nineteenth century.

  The thirteenth volume continues the history of the nineteenth century,
  begun in volume 12. Among the studies contributed to the volume are:
  Carlyle, by J. G. Robertson; The Tennysons, by Herbert J. C. Grierson;
  Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett Browning, by Sir Henry Jones;
  The prosody of the nineteenth century, by George Saintsbury;
  Nineteenth-century drama, by Harold Child; Thackeray, by A. Hamilton
  Thompson; Dickens, by George Saintsbury; The Brontës, by A. A. Jack.
  Volume 14 completes the trilogy of the nineteenth century and brings
  the work as a whole to a close. It has chapters on: Philosophers;
  Historians, biographers and political orators; The growth of
  journalism; The literature of science; Anglo-Irish literature, etc.
  There is also a chapter by W. Murison on Changes in the language since
  Shakespeare’s time.

  “Volume 14 has especially noteworthy articles on the growth of
  journalism and on literature in the English colonies.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:340 My ‘17 (Review of v 13 and 14)

  “A grim and militant provincialism is the presiding spirit of the
  volumes. Only so can one explain the fact that Newman is mentioned
  only in scattered references and nowhere treated as the great master
  of prose that he was, that Meredith’s ‘Modern love’ is slurred over as
  unimportant, and that the treatment of Patmore’s later verse (’The
  toys,’ ‘Magna est veritas,’ etc.), of Henley, and of Pater is brief
  and grudging.” Ludwig Lewisohn

       — =Dial= 62:473 My 31 ‘17 1700w (Review of v 13 and 14)

  “Mr Robertson treats in too cursory and perfunctory a fashion the
  question of the historical value of Carlyle’s historical works, nor
  does the bibliography supply this lacuna. ... In any general survey of
  the progress of historical studies in England during the nineteenth
  century there are two facts which ought to be clearly stated and
  adequately emphasized, viz. the opening of the national archives to
  historians and the revival of the study of history in the
  universities. They are suggested and referred to, but not given
  sufficient importance. ... Instances might be noted in which the
  selection of one writer rather than another seems difficult to
  explain, but carping criticism of details is an ungrateful task, where
  in the main there is agreement.” L.

     + — =Eng Hist R= 32:447 Jl ‘17 850w (Review of v 13 and 14)

  “The bibliographies in themselves form probably the most valuable
  book-record of the subject in print.”

       + =Ind= 90:215 Ap 28 ‘17 500w (Review of v 1-14)

  “With such names as Robertson, Grierson, Saintsbury, and Jack, it can
  be assumed that the present volume reaches the high level normal to
  this authoritative series.”

       + =Lit D= 54:768 Mr 17 ‘17 250w (Review of v 13)

       + =Lit D= 54:1429 My 12 ‘17 280w (Review of v 14)

  “But there is much more in the volume that will interest men of
  science than the single chapter which is specifically devoted to the
  literature of science. The whole volume is full of interest. A chapter
  on the changes in the language since the time of Shakespeare, by Mr W.
  Murison, may be commended to all those who are interested, as all of
  us ought to be, in the literary exposition of scientific work.”

     + — =Nature= 100:141 O 25 ‘17 1100w (Review of v 14)

       + =N Y Times= 22:97 Mr 18 ‘17 950w (Review of v 13 and 14)

  “The editors have chosen for their collaborators writers who know how
  to be scholarly without being pedantic; and they have allowed a fair
  modicum of personal equation to pass the editorial pencil
  unchallenged. Nevertheless, one feels, more in some chapters than in
  others, a sense of restraint, as tho the critic had checked himself on
  the verge of giving expression to his full thought.” F: T. Cooper

       + =Pub W= 91:591 F 17 ‘17 750w (Review of v 13)

  “It is a miscellany of both brilliant and careless workmanship, and
  its value will depend largely upon the individual reader’s
  interpretation of what is meant by history.”

     + — =R of Rs= 56:103 Jl ‘17 180w (Review of v 14)

         =St Louis= 15:151 My ‘17 (Review of v 14)

  “The chapters devoted to the literature of the Dominions from the
  freshness of their matter and their treatment, are among the most
  enthralling in the book.”

       + =Sat R= 123:438 My 12 ‘17 1650w (Review of v 13 and 14)

  “Most of the contributors have taken pains to be accurate in their
  statements of fact even if their criticisms often provoke dissent. The
  very lengthy bibliographies add much to the value of the work for
  purposes of reference.”

       + =Spec= 118:210 F 17 ‘17 180w (Review of v 13 and 14)

  “If the volume fails to make a unified impression, one is glad to take
  it for what it is—a collection of interesting and sometimes important
  papers by men well qualified to speak of their respective subjects.
  But the drawback of the method is not to be overlooked.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 28 ‘17 1100w (Review of v 13)

  “A newspaper man will relish the chapter on ‘The growth of
  journalism,’ by J. S. R. Phillips, editor of the Yorkshire Post, a
  model of condensation and good judgment. But the public as a whole may
  be more interested in the well-written and well-reasoned chapter on
  English-Canadian literature by Pelham Edgar, professor of English
  literature in Victoria college, University of Toronto.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 19 ‘17 1350w (Review of v 13)

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p10 Ja 4 ‘17 120w (Review of v 13
         and 14)

  “In conclusion we must regretfully congratulate Professor Robertson,
  Mr Hamilton Thompson, and Sir Adolphus Ward on being the only authors
  in this volume with a right sense of the historian’s responsibility;
  they alone have completed their own bibliographies. ‘G. A. B.,’ who is
  wholly or partly responsible for the rest, cannot be said to have
  attained a satisfactory level in the more difficult subjects.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p54 F 1 ‘17 1600w (Review of v 13)

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p78 F 15 ‘17 1650w (Review of v
         14)


=CAMMAERTS, ÉMILE.= Through the iron bars (Two years of German
occupation in Belgium). il *75c (3½c) Lane (Eng ed 6d) 940.91 17-22575

  “It is the plain matter-of-fact story of Belgian life under German
  rule. ... The German occupation of Belgium may be roughly divided into
  two periods: Before the fall of Antwerp, when the German policy, in
  spite of its frightfulness, had not yet assumed its most ruthless and
  systematic character; and, after the fall of the great fortress, when
  the yoke of the conqueror weighed more heavily on the vanquished
  shoulders, and when the Belgian population, grim and resolute, began
  to struggle to preserve its honour and loyalty and to resist the ever
  increasing pressure of the enemy to bring it into complete submission
  and to use it as a tool against its own army and its own king. I am
  only concerned here with the second period. ... My heroes risk their
  lives, but they are not soldiers, merely prosaic ‘bourgeois’ and
  workmen. They have no weapon, they cannot fight. ... They can only
  oppose a stout heart, a loyal spirit, and an ironic smile to the
  persecutions to which they are subjected.” (Chapter 1) Seven cartoons
  by Louis Raemaekers are reproduced.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:122 Ja ‘18

  “In these pages we have vivid, searching descriptions of and protests
  against the unwarrantable vandalism of the Teuton soldiery. It is a
  sad document, illumined by fires of devoted heroism.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 1 ‘17 160w

  “The evident restraint of passion is not its least virtue.”

       + =Nation= 105:672 D 13 ‘17 170w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:826 D ‘17 20w

       + =R of Rs= 56:549 N ‘17 110w

  “M. Cammaerts describes very clearly the successive phases of
  Belgium’s martyrdom under the rule of an enemy who has by turns
  attempted to cajole and to intimidate her. He says that the German
  pro-Flemish agitation has been a complete failure, as the
  Flemish-speaking Belgians saw through the enemy’s intrigue.”

       + =Spec= 118:616 Je 2 ‘17 70w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p203 Ap 26 ‘17 70w


=CAMP, CHARLES WADSWORTH.= Abandoned room. il *$1.35 (2c) Doubleday
17-29177

  This story of two mysterious murders is by the author of the “House of
  fear.” These murders take place at “The Cedars” in a bedroom where
  many Blackburns have died reluctantly and which has been unused for a
  number of years. Who murdered Silas Blackburn and the detective,
  Howells? Was it Katherine Perrine, who lived with her uncle? Or Bobby
  Blackburn, that “damned waster,” his grandson? Or Carlos Paredes,
  Bobby’s Panamanian friend, who was always harping on the supernatural?
  The secret is well kept, and the solution of the mystery a most
  unexpected one.

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:342 N ‘17 20w

  “The author succeeds to an unusual degree in inducing in the reader
  that peculiar creepy feeling associated with deeds of darkness and the
  supernatural. Nevertheless, the characters are very human, present-day
  people and the romance of Bobby and Katherine lends a welcome touch of
  tenderness.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 26 ‘17 320w

  “Mr Camp’s new mystery story is one of those tales which keep the
  reader on the alert, leading him on from one apparently inexplicable
  occurrence to another, and leave him in the end with a feeling of
  mingled disappointment and annoyance.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:491 N 25 ‘17 220w

  “Mr Camp makes such effective use of the supernatural manifestations
  that the reader has frequent attacks of goose flesh. The story is
  rather superior to the general run of its type, but the type is not
  distinguished.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 250w


=CAMP, CHARLES WADSWORTH.= War’s dark frame. il *$1.35 (2½c) Dodd 940.91
17-15964

  These impressions of life in France, Flanders, and England in wartime
  picture the home conditions of the man at the front as well as his
  life in the trenches. The author is a war correspondent whose tour
  apparently took place during the winter of 1916-17, and who was many
  times under shell fire.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:52 N ‘17

  “One notices the changed attitude in this book from the journalistic
  flippancy that used to be encountered in the earlier war-books. The
  continued strain is beginning to tell not only upon officers and men,
  but in the literature of the war. It is a serious business, which
  nevertheless has its virtues and its lighter sides. All are reflected
  with great fairness and sincerity by this thoroughly competent
  correspondent and author.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 30 ‘17 320w

  “An account of the darker side of the war told with an economy of
  words which makes it singularly moving.”

       + =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 60w

  “His conversational way of mingling fact and fancy makes a decidedly
  readable, though light, book.”

       + =Nation= 105:181 Ag 16 ‘17 130w

  “It is intimate touches that make the book unique, and which will
  probably cause it to become more popular than many another much more
  pretentious volume. The fourteen illustrations, all from photographs,
  have the added value of showing people as well as places.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:294 Ag 12 ‘17 500w


=CAMPBELL, FRANCES (WEED) (MRS GEORGE CAMPBELL).= Book of home nursing.
il *$1.25 Dutton 610.7 17-21895

  “A practical guide for the treatment of sickness in the home. ...
  While the subject matter is in the main such as would be found in any
  practical book dealing with the problems of sickness and nursing,
  there are included many original ideas in the care of patients that
  have been used with great success by Mrs Campbell.” (N Y Call) “The
  author is a trained nurse who writes out of the knowledge gained in
  actual experiences. One very useful chapter is called: How to keep
  well.” (R of Rs)

     + — =N Y Call= p15 O 28 ‘17 270w

  “If you are intending to work in the war hospitals, this book will
  prove invaluable and serve as a solid foundation for specialized
  training.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:555 N ‘17 50w

  “Writing in an easily readable style with now and then a little flash
  of humor, Mrs Campbell has brought together simple every day facts
  that should be of great value to one who, unused to the profession of
  nursing, is suddenly forced to think and plan for the comfort of an
  invalid.” J. E. Hitchcock

       + =Survey= 39:170 N 17 ‘17 230w


=CAMPBELL, JAMES MANN.= New thought Christianized. *$1 (3½c) Crowell 131
17-13828

  This book discusses “the law of suggestion, fear and its antidotes,
  the folly of worry, repose and how to get it, health and religion,
  true optimism, the power of initiative, self-control versus divine
  control, the higher environment, etc.”—R of Rs

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:111 Jl ‘17

  “These cults lack an essential element of Christianity. They affirm
  man’s self-sufficiency apart from God, of whom, man’s indispensable
  source of sufficiency, they affirm little or nothing.”

         =Outlook= 116:451 Jl 18 ‘17 70w

  “Dr Campbell is in agreement with Dr Dresser in fundamentals. ... This
  is an excellent book for the orthodox Christian who wants to come over
  into the New thought camp without the loss of one jot of his
  Christianity.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:106 Jl ‘17 140w


=CAMPBELL, MAURICE VIELE.= Rapid training of recruits. *$1 Stokes 355
17-29354

  “A practical scheme for quick results in training the national army,
  based on the definite record of what has been actually accomplished in
  England. The aim is to give the recruit instructor in America
  cantonments a thoroughly tested plan for whipping his men into shape
  speedily. A typical day’s work is minutely outlined, lectures are
  suggested, in fact every detail necessary to an intensive program is
  fully treated. The book is as useful to the recruit himself as to his
  instructor.”—Publishers’ note

       + =R of Rs= 57:102 Ja ‘18 50w


=CANBY, HENRY SEIDEL; PIERCE, FREDERICK ERASTUS, and DURHAM, WILLARD
HIGLEY.= Facts, thought, and imagination. *$1.30 (1c) Macmillan 808
17-19155

  A book on writing, prepared for the use of second year college
  students. It is assumed that the students have been taught “all they
  can absorb of unity, coherence and emphasis” and are now ready to
  write. Part one of the book consists of theoretical discussion and is
  made up of three chapters on writing: Facts, by Frederick Erastus
  Pierce; Thought, by Henry Seidel Canby; and Imagination in the service
  of thought, by Willard Higley Durham. “These essays,” the authors say,
  “not only give instructions for writing, but also, directly or by
  implication, suggest an abundance of subjects.” The remainder of the
  book is given up to selections, arranged in three groups to accompany
  the three chapters, and chosen from the work of modern writers. The
  authors are members of the department of English, of Sheffield
  scientific school, Yale university.


=CANNAN, GILBERT.= Mendel; a story of youth. *$1.50 (1c) Doran 16-23586

  Mendel Kühler is a young Austrian Jew who grows up in the East End of
  London. He is the youngest child of his parents and the best loved,
  and his early leanings toward art are fostered, altho humble Jacob and
  Golda, intent only on getting on in the world, cannot understand them.
  The story is concerned with Mendel’s progress in art, his life in
  London’s Bohemia, his association with his artist friends and his love
  for Greta Morrison. He is a child of the city and he loves it, its
  squalor and filth and noise. As an artist he paints it, coming in time
  to adopt the new modern methods of treatment. Greta Morrison belongs
  to the country. Her delights are in deep woods and wet meadows. Their
  love is a conflict, but while the book leaves their story unfinished,
  it gives the impression that their need for one another must conquer
  all differences.

  “Gilbert Cannan, in his new book, has hardly maintained the high
  standard that he has set for himself in some of his earlier work.
  There is too much of the flavor of George Moore, particularly of
  ‘Lewis Seymour,’ in it, and a good deal of Jean Christophe, and
  dish-water. ... It must be said, however, that the character drawing
  is fearless and generally consistent.”

     – + =Bellman= 22:278 Mr 10 ‘17 250w

  “There is a good deal of dinginess in the chronicle, the dinginess of
  egotism, of drink, and of sex.” H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 45:204 Ap ‘17 650w

  “Mr Cannan’s is so expert a hand at hard realism that we again and
  again regret his frequent excursions into the field of grotesque
  fantasy and violent eroticism. ... It must be obvious by this time to
  anyone who has followed Mr Cannan’s work as a novelist that he is
  obsessed by the idea that sex and nothing but sex should form the
  background of a novel. ... His entire atmosphere reeks with
  eroticism. ... And intermingled is a persistent jargon about art which
  gives us little knowledge of the subject and that fails to convince us
  of Mendel’s genius.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 F 17 ‘17 1400w

  “The book is unreserved, but the naturalism is subordinated to the
  fine characterization of a Jew and an artist, and therein Cannan does
  for his genius what Theodore Dreiser fails to do for his; that is, he
  gets above the merely material plane and shows how lower values are
  transmuted into higher.”

       + =Cleveland= p87 Jl ‘17 120w

  Reviewed by John Macy

         =Dial= 62:357 Ap 19 ‘17 350w

  “In long dissertations on art between Mendel, and Logan, and other
  art-students, we cannot forget that they were only callow youths with
  more enthusiasm than brains. In his ups and downs we get quite an
  insight into the ‘new art’ of Van Gogh, Gauguin, and Cézanne. ... The
  author is overstocked with material. ... He is too diffuse.”

     – + =Lit D= 54:1088 Ap 14 ‘17 270w

  “It is an exceedingly candid picture of life, and a remarkable
  portrayal of an interesting and significant character—the realest
  person that I have met in fiction for years. ... There is something
  new happening in fiction; and this is it.” F. D.

       + =Masses= 9:28 My ‘17 700w

  “As usual, Mr Cannan has found plenty of spades here to be called by
  name, but we never suspect him of pursuing grossness for its own sake.
  The narrative is hardly a ‘story,’ it has no plot, and is most liberal
  of detail. It is, nevertheless, very artfully put together to an end
  far beyond that of naturalism in its raw phase—to the end of
  interpreting a human character in action upon a higher than animal
  plane.” H. W. Boynton

         =Nation= 104:403 Ap 5 ‘17 150w

  “One likes Mendel chiefly because it expresses valorously a sense of
  the primitive value of the fight that there is when one’s work and
  one’s love are made to use all the forces of one’s life. The book is
  not comfortable and acquiescent. It demands thoroughgoing and
  pugnacious protest. ... But one wishes Mr Cannan would write a little
  better. ... It tests one’s disposition toward Mendel to have its
  author give so little gratification to a taste for letters as a fine
  art.” Edith Borie

     + — =New Repub= 10:sup11 Ap 21 ‘17 950w

  “A long step forward in fictional art has been taken by Gilbert Cannan
  in this new novel. He is best known to American readers as the
  translator of ‘Jean Christophe’ and as the author of ‘Old Mole,’
  ‘Young Earnest,’ and ‘Three sons and a mother,’ as most of his long
  list of novels and plays have not been brought out in the United
  States.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:54 F 18 ‘17 600w

  “The acrid savor of the Jewish race, their mounting egotism, their
  strange humility and ever-mastering desire for God, Cannan has
  pictured with sympathy and deep insight.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:556 N ‘17 200w

  “‘Mendel’ is a fearless piece of work. It has grip and power, shrewd
  observation, and clear-cut thought. Sloppiness, sentiment and gush—the
  three distinguishing traits of so many modern novels—are absent. The
  writer knows what he wants to say and knows how to say it. Mr Cannan
  works close to life. His book is realism, but realism of the right
  kind.”

       + =Sat R= 122:628 D 30 ‘16 500w

  “Besides theories on art, another preoccupation of Mr Cannan’s
  personages is sex. There is far too much talk about it; an exasperated
  consciousness of it pervades the book. ... So far we have said nothing
  of the honesty, the intelligence, the frequent and delightful pungency
  of the book. Mr Cannan has moments in which he lazily subsides into
  ineffective emphasis, or caricature, or cut-and-dried appreciations,
  and these moments are frequent enough to make ‘Mendel’ seem too long.
  But it almost continuously entertains, and we are not using the term
  in a trivial sense; it entertains because it provokes.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p499 O 19 ‘16 600w


=CAPPEAU, MRS IDA MAY (JACK).= Voyage to South America and Buenos Aires,
the city beautiful. il $1.20 (4c) Sherman, French & co. 918 16-24332

  A woman’s diary of a voyage to South America. On the voyage stops were
  made at Bahia, Rio de Janeiro and Santos, and brief glimpses of these
  cities are given. Most of the author’s time was spent in Buenos Aires
  and she writes with enthusiasm of the city and of the courtesy and
  kindness of its people.

  “Only the fact that so few people find anything at all to say about
  South America makes Mrs Cappeau’s account appear of relative
  interest. ... A few of the photographs are excellent.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 10 ‘17 70w


=CARBAUGH, HARVEY CLARENCE=, ed. Human welfare work in Chicago. il
*$1.50 (4c) McClurg 917.731 17-9261

  The purpose of this book is to bring together information pertaining
  to the various activities in Chicago that come under the heading human
  welfare. These include music, art, education, philanthropy, etc. The
  editor is a member of the civil service board of South park
  commissioners; there is an introduction by John Barton Payne,
  president of the South park commissioners, and chapters are
  contributed to the book by other men directly engaged in special lines
  of work, among them Henry E. Legler, librarian of the public library.
  Contents: Art in Chicago; Chicago as a music center; The city’s public
  schools; The public library; Parks and boulevards; Public recreation;
  A summary of philanthropic work; Philanthropic work of religious
  organizations; Neighborhood work. There are a number of interesting
  illustrations.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:427 Jl ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 100w

         =Cleveland= p108 S ‘17 40w

  “It is not until one comes upon the full list of municipal activities,
  as in such a volume as the present, that the scope and significance of
  that future are possible of realization. ... The volume contains much
  statistical information and is amply illustrated.”

       + =Dial= 62:406 My 3 ‘17 190w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:109 Jl ‘17 80w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:675 O ‘17 60w

  “A valuable handbook for those interested in gaining an idea of the
  varied activities which a modern city carries on for the benefits of
  its citizens.”

       + =Pratt= p10 O ‘17 40w


=CARMICHAEL, MARY H.=, comp. Pioneer days. il *$1.25 (3c) Duffield 973
17-13393

  The author has collected these stories of pioneer days in the
  Mississippi valley from early histories and from lives of frontiersmen
  and pioneers written by contemporaries. Contents: Josiah Hunt—the
  Indian fighter; Maniac defender—a story of the border; Providential
  interference; Tom Higgins rescuing his comrade; A romance of pioneer
  life; Ham Cass and his vow; Capture and escape of Alexander McConnell;
  Charles Hess; Captain Hubbell defending his boat; Pioneer boys; James
  Moore’s captivity; Lewis Wetzel’s scout. The illustrations are from
  old prints.

  “A good library book for sixth grade.”

       + =Ind= 91:228 Ag 11 ‘17 40w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:109 Jl ‘17 50w

  “There might have been a more careful editing of the contents; one is
  led to infer that scissors and paste-brush were the only utensils in
  use.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 31 ‘17 200w


=CARNOVALE, LUIGI.= Why Italy entered into the great war. il $2.50
Italian-American pub. co., 903 Michigan boulevard bldg., Chicago 940.91
17-21996

  “The author, an Italian living in Chicago, writes this book to defend
  his country from the charges ... that Italy had been guilty of
  treachery in declaring void the treaty of the Triple alliance and that
  she entered the war first because she had been bought by English and
  French gold, and secondly because she was eager to acquire territory
  (Trieste and Trent) ‘which by hereditary divine right was the
  possession of the Hapsburgs.’” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) “The first
  part deals with recent history—with the relations between Italy and
  Austria for the past century. ... The second part comprises a longer
  historical retrospect—one of two thousand years—and is designed to
  prove the essentially Italian character of the borderlands in dispute
  between the two countries. The third part gives an account of the
  diplomatic doings which immediately preceded the declaration of war—a
  complete and compact presentation of the actual documents. The fourth
  part gives the reasons which justified Italy in breaking with the
  Central powers and in joining France and England.” (Dial) The book is
  printed in two languages. “The English text fills the first three
  hundred pages, and the whole is then presented in Italian in the
  second half of the book.” (N Y Times)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:52 N ‘17

  “One feature of the book is a plate giving in facsimile the famous
  ‘Tavola Clesiana,’ a bronze tablet which was discovered at Cles, in
  mid-Tyrol, in 1869. This tablet contains a decree of the Emperor
  Claudius, A.D. 49, determining the essentially Italian character of
  the inhabitants of that region. ... Mr Carnovale, who has a reputation
  as a journalist both in Italy and America, is one of the younger
  school of radical reformers. He is against not only the papacy but
  also the house of Savoy; and against not only the house of Savoy but
  also the capitalistic forces which ... often take an undue part in
  originating and in furthering wars.”

       + =Dial= 63:212 S 13 ‘17 430w

  “Readers who wish to preserve a judicial attitude will need to be on
  their guard against the author’s point of view. And one cannot refrain
  from marveling that so ardent a patriot should choose to live in a
  country of which he has such a low opinion as he expresses of
  America.”

       — =NY Times= 22:382 O 17 ‘17 350w

         =St Louis= 15:417 D ‘17 10w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p431 S 6 ‘17 150w


=CARPENTER, FORD ASHMAN.= Aviator and the Weather bureau. 2d ed il 25c;
free to libraries San Diego chamber of commerce, San Diego, Cal. 629.1
17-25375

  “This little booklet consists of a brief but comprehensive account of
  the history of aviation as it is associated with southern California
  and of a syllabus of lectures delivered at the War department school
  of aviation at San Diego on practical meteorology as applied to
  aviation. There is also an interesting narration of weather study from
  an aeroplane, including the details of the author’s first ascent, and,
  finally, an account of the present active coöperation between aviators
  and the United States Weather bureau.”—Nation

       + =Nation= 105:19 Jl 5 ‘17 170w

  “Contains a considerable number of interesting illustrations.”

       + =Nature= 99:263 My 31 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:753 N ‘17 20w


=CARPENTER, WILLIAM BOYD.= Further pages of my life. il *$3.50 Scribner
(*10s 6d Williams & Norgate, London) 17-14124

  “The ways of man and the shortcomings of clergymen, the life of the
  rural vicarage and the personalities of several English leaders in
  letters, religion and affairs, are revealed by Dr W. Boyd Carpenter in
  a second volume of reminiscences. It is a companion to his ‘Some pages
  of my life,’ and it is written in the same informal, companionable and
  entertaining manner. Neither is it in any sense a biography, for Dr
  Carpenter is content merely to set down a few glimpses of life and
  people as he has encountered them during a long career of clerical
  activity. After having served as bishop of Ripon from 1884 to 1911, he
  is now sub-dean and canon of Westminster.”—Boston Transcript

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 25 ‘17 750w

  “There are many good stories of all sorts—humorous, strange, and
  grim—in this variegated chronicle.”

       + =Spec= 117:704 D 2 ‘16 1850w

  “Few people write a sequel to an autobiography which is more
  interesting and important than the first book. But this is the case
  with ‘Further pages of my life.’ ... Every clergyman should read the
  chapter on the bishop’s experiences with the clergy of his
  diocese. ... The book, as a whole, is delightful reading. ... Bishop
  Boyd Carpenter is able to tell things which have never before been
  revealed. This is especially true in his chapter on King Edward VII.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 3 ‘17 570w

  “A fascinating volume.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p558 N 23 ‘16 1000w


=CARR, JOSEPH WILLIAM COMYNS.= Ideals of painting. il *$2 (2c) Macmillan
759 17-8604

  The purpose of this book is “to assist those students who desire to
  obtain a general view of the movement of painting from the time of
  Giotto to the present day; and to compare and contrast the spiritual
  ideals that have been pursued and perfected in the work of separate
  schools labouring under the dominating impulse supplied by individual
  genius.” The first two sections of the book deal with The ideals of
  Italy and Venice and the north. The remainder consists of chapters
  devoted respectively to the ideals of Flanders, Germany, Holland,
  Spain, France and England. There are a number of illustrations, and an
  index that seems to be complete.

  “The illustrations are numerous and well chosen.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:12 O ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 11 ‘17 230w

  “Well arranged material.”

       + =Cleveland= p97 Jl ‘17 40w

  “There is any amount of interesting detail, comparison, analysis, and
  assertion; but no pattern of a theory of life, related in specific
  ways to the theories of life of the others, emerges for any one of
  these lands.”

     – + =Dial= 63:115 Ag 16 ‘17 250w

         =Lit D= 55:40 N 3 ‘17 100w

  “Nearly everything he says is interesting, and his characterization of
  particular painters is often admirable. Of course, there are what must
  appear to another critic faults of proportion and of accent. His
  greatest critical weakness seems to us to be a lack of complete
  understanding of the possibilities of light and shade. The greatest
  drawback of Mr Carr’s book is his style. He is not master of the vivid
  phrase or the illuminating word. His wordiness and repetitiousness
  make hard reading, and it is to be feared that few readers will be
  sufficiently persevering to discover how much better his thought is
  than it sounds.”

 *   – + =Nation= 105:126 Ag 2 ‘17 800w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 5:75 My ‘17 40w

  “The present book reflects to a degree the crowding of thoughts and
  impressions arising in the presence of so multitudinous a subject, and
  it lacks distinction of proportion.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:334 S 9 ‘17 180w

  “The text is set forth with the same charm as characterized the
  author’s previously most lately issued volume, ‘Coasting Bohemia.’”

       + =Outlook= 115:758 Ap 25 ‘17 110w

  “Will give the veriest tyro in art the ability to appreciate and to
  criticise intelligently the paintings of the various schools.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:219 Ag ‘17 170w

  “The history of art is now so specialized that to be adequately
  furnished at every point is scarcely possible to a single man. How can
  any one student know as much as Morelli or Mr Berenson about the
  Italians, as much as Dr Bredius or Dr de Groot about the Dutch, and as
  much as a dozen other experts about the French, German, Spanish, and
  English painters? Mr Carr would have replied that he made no such
  pretension. ... To sum up, we have found this book interesting and
  suggestive and based on a sound foundation of knowledge. It is a pity,
  however, that the proofs were not more carefully read.”

 *   + – =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p235 My 17 ‘17 1150w


=CARRINGTON, FITZROY.= Engravers and etchers. il $3 Art institute of
Chicago 760

  “This volume, with its 133 illustrations, embodies six lectures
  delivered under the auspices of the Scammon foundation at the Art
  institute of Chicago by the curator of prints at our own [Boston] art
  museum. The chapter titles will give an adequate idea of the ground
  covered: German engraving: from the beginning to Martin Schongauer;
  Italian engraving: the Florentines; German engraving: the master of
  the Amsterdam cabinet and Albrecht Dürer; Italian engraving: Mantegna
  to Marcantonio Raimondi; Some masters of portraiture; Landscape
  etching.”—Boston Transcript

  “He scarcely touches on contemporary artists of the needle and burin,
  and he dwells lovingly on Dürer and Rembrandt. ... This necessarily
  limits the interest of the book principally to those that know little
  or nothing of these arts. Neither does he go into the technicalities
  of the processes engaged in them. His book is to be especially
  recommended to young amateurs. ... Most of the reproductions of the
  works of Schongauer, Mantegna, Raimondi, Nanteuil, Daubigny, Corot,
  Haden and other masters represented, are admirably clear and
  satisfactory.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 25 ‘17 520w

  “The last lecture, dealing with landscape, is perhaps the best in its
  directness and unity, and the tribute to Dürer’s little-realized
  importance in this field is noted with pleasure by the reviewer. As to
  the illustrations, regrets concerning the havoc with lines played by
  the half-tone screen are of course unavoidable. And one may at least
  question whether the irritatingly glazed and malodorous paper used
  throughout the book is necessary. Mr Paff’s bibliographical lists,
  obviously not intended to be complete, are helpful.”

     + — =Nation= 105:299 S 13 ‘17 430w

  “In its agreeable blending of technical discussion with discriminating
  feeling the book is an excellent aid to appreciation.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:811 D ‘17 50w

  “For the needs of persons to whom engravings and etchings are an
  unexplored region of art there is no better book. It is beautifully
  printed and contains 133 well-executed illustrations.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:220 Ag ‘17 130w


=CARROLL, ROBERT SPROUL.= Mastery of nervousness based upon self
reeducation. *$2 (3c) Macmillan 616 17-18704

  Dr Carroll tells us that “nervous health is a mental state, not a
  physical condition,” although “physical disturbances play a large part
  in the production of nervousness.” For instance, food intemperance,
  which in America is “almost universal,” is “a larger factor in
  producing the damage which results in defective nervous offspring,
  than any other single cause.” The earlier chapters of the book take up
  various types of nervousness, discuss “eating errors” and “eating for
  efficiency,” and point out the benefits of work and play. Later
  chapters deal with mental and moral self-reeducation under such
  headings as: Tangled thoughts; Emotional tyranny; Clear thinking;
  Moulding the emotions; The fulfilment of self, etc. Dr Carroll
  believes that nervousness is to be mastered by diet, exercise and
  training of the will, rather than by drugs.

  “A most helpful popular treatise.”

       + =N Y Evening Post= p6 O 13 ‘17 400w

  “An abundance of useful information and wholesome advice is presented
  by Dr Carroll.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:521 D 2 ‘17 50w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Ja 20 ‘18 170w


=CASALIS, ALFRED EUGÈNE.= For France and the faith. il *60c (3c) Assn.
press 940.91 17-24722

  This book is made up of fragments of letters written to relatives and
  intimate friends by Alfred Eugène Casalis who was born of missionary
  parents in South Africa, was a student in the theological seminary of
  Montauban, France, when the war broke out, volunteered and fell in
  battle at the age of nineteen. The letters are translated by W. E.
  Bristol. In an introductory page John R. Mott says: “The English
  edition has helped many a soldier of Britain to live his life and to
  fight his battles on the higher levels.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:88 D ‘17


=CASTLE, AGNES (SWEETMAN) (MRS EGERTON CASTLE), and CASTLE, EGERTON.=
Wolf-lure. il *$1.50 Appleton 17-24204

  “The strange, barbaric title of this latest adventure story by these
  popular authors amply suggests the wild, exotic scenes enacted about
  Castle Rozac of Guyenne, not long after the old French régime came to
  an abrupt downfall under the ‘Corsician upstart.’ The tale consists of
  the reminiscences of an elderly Englishman, who in youth wandered into
  this out-of-the-way part of France for the sake of historical study
  and research. The action, which is extravagant, though doubtless
  appropriate to the times and the setting, takes one into the midst of
  a passion-haunted castle, into the territory of a race of ruffians and
  counterfeiters, and even down to the subterranean caves in the back
  waters of the Tarne.”—N Y Times

  “Romantic and rather long.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:130 Ja ‘18

       + =Ath= p595 N ‘17 90w

  “Needless to say of a work from these experienced hands, it is a
  vigorous and finished story of its kind.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:342 N ‘17 60w

  “The color and romance of the story give us the Castles at their best;
  and the character of Louvecelle, the heroine, is touched with spirit
  and charm.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 3 ‘17 170w

  “‘Wolf-lure’ is the work of specialists in their field. ... Having
  chosen their atmosphere, they breathe it easily; and they are seldom
  to be caught napping (there are a few modernisms in the dialogue of
  the present story) in matters of detail.”

       + =Nation= 105:487 N 1 ‘17 270w

  “The story is surprisingly void of really ‘palpitating moments.’ This
  is due, perhaps, to a certain loquacity on the part of the narrator
  that detracts from the point and force of the tale.”

     + – =N Y Times= 22:381 O 7 ‘17 300w

  “The story is not always quite probable, but it holds the reader’s
  attention closely.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:219 O 10 ‘17 40w

  “We have no objection to fantastic invention in stories of this kind,
  but if they are put in an historic setting the setting should be true
  to history.”

       — =Sat R= 124:353 N 3 ‘17 90w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 230w

  “The tale has many exciting moments; but these come in the latter half
  of the book, and it needs some perseverance to win through to them.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p507 O 18 ‘17 200w


=CASTLE, WILLIAM ERNEST.= Genetics and eugenics; a text-book for
students of biology and a reference book for animal and plant breeders.
il *$1.50 Harvard univ. press 575.6 16-25200

  “The first part of Prof. W. E. Castle’s ‘Genetics and eugenics’ is
  devoted to the larger subject of genetics, especially in its relation
  to the theory of evolution, and the smaller second part is given over
  to the discussion of the ‘agencies under social control that may
  improve or impair the racial qualities of future generations, either
  physically or mentally.’ Most emphasis is laid, of course, upon the
  fundamental studies of Lamarck, Darwin, Weismann, and Mendel, but the
  very latest researches are also considered.”—Nation

  “This is a welcome addition to the rapidly growing list of books which
  set forth the newer results and problems of biology and show their
  application to human life. Moreover, it is well illustrated. ... The
  volume will be of great interest and value to laymen as well as
  biologists; indeed, we may assume that the latter know the facts now.”
  Carl Kelsey

       + =Ann Am Acad= 73:244 S ‘17 310w

  “The reader will find here a summary of the subject that will put him
  fairly in touch with the best of contemporary thought on such matters
  as the inheritance of acquired characters, biometry, the mutation
  theory, unit characters, sex-linked and other kinds of linked
  inheritance, inbreeding and crossbreeding. ... As regards human
  inheritance, Professor Castle agrees neither with Pearson, who denies
  Mendelianism, nor with Davenport and Plate, who are enthusiastic for
  unit characters, but adopts a more eclectic view.”

       + =Nation= 104:563 My 3 ‘17 300w

  “Since the beginning of the present century, when genetic research
  passed from the province of the amateur to that of the professional,
  Prof. Castle has been recognized as one of the most active workers on
  these lines. A book embodying his outlook after years of teaching and
  research is sure of a welcome from all who are interested in these
  matters. ... The amount of ground covered involves a condensed
  treatment of many important questions, and though this need not be a
  drawback to the student whose reading is supplemented by lectures, it
  makes it rather a difficult book for the average reader. ... The
  treatment of eugenics is eminently sane.”

       + =Nature= 99:202 My 10 ‘17 650w


=CASTLE, WILLIAM RICHARDS, Jr.= Hawaii past and present. rev and enl ed
il *$1.50 (3c) Dodd 919.69 17-5138

  The first edition of this book was published in 1913. The addition of
  a chapter on The army and navy in Hawaii is the most noticeable change
  in the second edition. Other chapters have revisions, bringing them
  down to date.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:362 My ‘17

  “A descendant of the earliest white families to settle in the Hawaiian
  Islands, Mr Castle is well fitted by long acquaintance with the people
  and their life and customs to write sympathetically and intelligently
  concerning them.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 210w

  “A valuable book that purports to do a great deal and accomplishes
  it.”

       + =Cath World= 105:266 My ‘17 250w

         =N Y Times= 22:396 O 14 ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:185 Je ‘17


=CATT, MRS CARRIE (LANE) CHAPMAN=, comp. Woman suffrage by federal
constitutional amendment. (National suffrage library) $1.30 (8½c)
National woman suffrage pub. co. 324.3 17-4988

  This little book does not argue the question of woman suffrage. The
  justice, necessity and inevitability of suffrage for women are taken
  for granted. “The discussion is strictly confined to the reasons why
  an amendment to the federal constitution is the most appropriate
  method of dealing with the question.” Contents: Why the federal
  amendment? by Carrie Chapman Catt; State constitutional obstructions,
  by Mary Sumner Boyd; Election laws and referenda, by Carrie Chapman
  Catt; The story of the 1916 referenda, by Carrie Chapman Catt; Federal
  action and states rights, by Henry Wade Rogers; Objections to the
  federal amendment, by Carrie Chapman Catt.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:375 Je ‘17

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:126 Ag ‘17 80w


=CATT, HEINRICH ALEXANDER DE.= Frederick the Great; the memoirs of his
reader (1758-1760); tr. by F. S. Flint; with an introd. by Lord
Rosebery. 2v il *$7.50 Houghton (Eng ed 17-11818)

  “The translation constituting the bulk of these important volumes has
  been made from the French text published from the manuscript in the
  Prussian state archives. ... As reader and librarian to the king, with
  whom he was on terms of intimacy, Catt had ample opportunity of
  observing and becoming conversant with the sovereign’s character, and
  he recorded Frederick’s sayings as faithfully as Boswell noted down
  for posterity those of Johnson. The result is that Henri de Catt’s
  memoirs, though almost devoid of literary merit, have preserved for us
  a picture which it is scarcely too much to affirm gives a better idea
  of the man than does even Carlyle’s monumental work.”—Ath

  “During the bitter years 1758-1760 Catt kept a very brief diary of all
  the conversations and journeys with the king. Many years later he
  artistically amplified the diary into ‘Memoirs.’ ... The former, not
  here translated, consists of disconnected jottings and is wholly
  without literary form. It is of much value, however, to the meticulous
  biographer of Frederick, because of its unvarnished accuracy. The
  ‘Memoirs,’ on the other hand, put together in pleasing narrative form,
  have doubtless much greater interest for the general reader, but are
  not quite so trustworthy. Admitting, however, that there is a mixture
  of ‘dichtung und wahrheit’ in the ‘Memoirs,’ they nevertheless give a
  generally veracious, favorable, and intensely human picture of a
  really great man.” S. B. Fay

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:146 O ‘17 700w

  “The book is of great interest, and has appeared opportunely.”

       + =Ath= p50 Ja ‘17 230w

  “A document of great human interest, a faithful portrait of a monarch
  working at concert pitch with an intensity and application truly
  marvelous, Catt’s memoir is of even greater value as the chronicle of
  the sowing of a seed which only now has reached its sinister
  harvest. ... The translator has done a difficult work well. The
  original ‘abounds in solecisms and faults of style’; the translation
  has both character and lucidity. The work will join that company of
  distinguished biographies which is as exclusive as the host of
  ordinary biographies is numerous.” R. W.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 21 ‘17 1050w

         =Lit D= 54:1855 Je 16 ‘17 1000w

  “Carlyle, in writing his life of Frederick, would have been only too
  delighted with these memoirs, had he been acquainted with them. They
  would have formed a welcome oasis in the desert of Dryasdusts against
  whom he loved to fulminate.”

       + =Nation= 105:295 S 13 ‘17 600w

  “Mr Flint has given us a text in good idiomatic English. ... One of
  the most interesting features in the ‘Memoirs’ is the light they throw
  on the relations of Frederick and Voltaire.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:145 Ap 15 ‘17 1100w

       + =Outlook= 115:758 Ap 25 ‘17 200w

         =R of Rs= 55:666 Je ‘17 70w

  “This is a capital book, and an agreeable surprise. ... Catt is the
  soul of sincerity and straightforwardness; but Catt soon perceives
  that a little of the truth goes a long way, and it is amusing to see
  him reflecting how far he can venture to go in the criticism of bad
  verses and other of Frederick’s indiscretions.”

       + =Sat R= 123:16 Ja 5 ‘17 1500w

  “As Lord Rosebery says in his introduction, this is a very human book.
  Frederick the Great, Prussia’s only really able king, has been
  eulogized and criticized in hundreds of volumes, but we have never
  read anything giving so simple and homely a picture of him as that
  drawn by his admiring Swiss reader.”

       + =Spec= 118:237 F 24 ‘17 2250w

  “The ‘Memoirs,’ which are now for the first time translated from the
  original French, present a very remarkable picture of one side of the
  great king. They extend over two years only, but those two years
  include the crisis of the Seven years war. ... The translation, which
  is admirably done, is introduced by Lord Rosebery in a preface which
  brings out the full difficulty of the enigma which the character of
  Frederick presents.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p1 Ja 4 ‘17 180w

  “Catt’s memoirs approach Boswell’s ‘Johnson’ and Busch’s ‘Bismarck’ in
  their intimate revelations, and, for those who read only English,
  furnish an excellent supplement to Carlyle’s fervid and memorable
  epic.” A. L. Cross

       + =Yale R= n s 7:221 O ‘17 1450w


=CAULDWELL, SAMUEL MILBANK.= Chocolate cake and black sand, and two
other plays. il *$1.50 Putnam 812 17-16753

  The three plays in this book were written by the author for the
  entertainment of his own children and the amusement of his friends.
  The author’s preface says “These plays are distinctly a domestic
  product intended for home consumption. The family hearthstone finds
  its place in the foreground of the stage setting. The living-room is
  transformed into the orchestra and the hall staircase answers all the
  purposes of the gallery. Little if any stage scenery is required,
  except such as can be found in the cellar or garret of any
  well-regulated family.” Mrs Cauldwell, who has edited the plays for
  publication after her husband’s death, says that they are offered to
  all who are interested in amateur performances in the home. The title
  play and the one following, “The undoing of Giant Hotstoff,” are dream
  plays. The third, “The invention of the rat trap,” is a “romantic
  historical drama.”

  “Very whimsical and gay.”

       + =Ind= 91:135 Jl 28 ‘17 50w

  “They are stronger dramatically than most plays for young actors.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 20 ‘17 70w


=CHAMBERS, ROBERT WILLIAM.= Barbarians. il $1.40 Appleton 17-28656

  “The story is a group of episodes, each narrating the fate of one of
  eight men who sail for Europe together on a mule-laden steamer ‘in
  quest of something they could not find in America—something that lay
  somewhere amid flaming obscurity in that hell of murder beyond the
  Somme—their soul’s salvation, perhaps.’ They are ‘fed up’ with
  America’s holding aloof from participation in the struggle. Several of
  the men take service in the French army and Mr Chambers follows each
  to his dramatic end. ... Mr Chambers displays bitterness and
  abhorrence of Germany’s military conduct and employs strong terms in
  characterizing it.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Tales that, if not inspired, are honestly felt and written, and not
  merely manufactured for an audience or an effect.”

       + =Nation= 105:695 D 20 ‘17 270w

  “Mr Chambers expresses much contempt and disapproval of the government
  of the United States because it did not enter the war at the
  beginning. Whatever may have been one’s personal opinion upon this
  matter in former months, such piled-up objurgations in the pages of
  fiction at this time are in offensively bad taste, to say the least.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:434 O 28 ‘17 600w

         =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 40w

  “Too bad that the author could not resist the temptation to play up
  the usual suggestive moments! As a matter of fact, however, they do
  not particularly detract from a work of great vividness.” E. P.
  Wyckoff

     + — =Pub W= 92:2030 D 8 ‘17 370w

  “The episodes are adroitly conceived and related with grim vividness
  and feeling.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 200w


=CHAMBERS, ROBERT WILLIAM.= Dark star. il *$1.50 (1c) Appleton 17-13501

  A Russian princess, a German prima-donna and the young daughter of an
  American missionary are characters in this war-time romance. As a
  child in Turkey, Rue Carew had played with the wonder box that had
  been the property of Herr Conrad Wilner. It held, along with the
  figure of a Chinese god and other treasures, a series of maps and
  plans. Years after when she is studying art in Paris, under the
  protection of her friend, the Russian princess, Rue learns how
  important these old sketches are. A cable despatch to her childhood
  friend, Jim Neeland, in America, sends him up to her old home in the
  Catskills to find the box, which he is instructed to bring at once to
  Paris. But someone is there before him; the German singer also knows
  of these plans of the fortifications of the Dardanelles. This is only
  the beginning of the series of adventures in which he becomes involved
  and from which, being an American with a touch of Irish blood, he
  comes out victorious.

  “Sensational, but almost without any cloying sentimentality. Appeared
  in the Cosmopolitan.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:448 Jl ‘17

  “Not since Robert Chambers’s early novels has he given us so absorbing
  a story of adventure as that which he has woven about ‘The dark star.’
  In it he gains back the power which made him a magician in the realm
  of adventure stories, but which has so often been lost sight of in his
  later novels.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 6 ‘17 1000w

  “A lava-spouting, rambunctious, movie-play kind of an
  entertainment. ... But Mr Chambers never forgets the marshmallows, and
  the dainty makes its appearance, as luscious as ever, at the proper
  time.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:194 My 20 ‘17 670w

  “This is not only a very stirring tale, but is the best-written novel
  Mr Chambers has produced since the outbreak of the war.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 270w


=CHAMPION, JESSIE.= Jimmy’s wife. *$1.25 (2c) Lane 17-2485

  When they separated, Jimmy’s wife had exacted from him a promise. He
  was never to recognize her should they meet in public. This much of
  his story Jimmy tells to Rev. and Mrs Horace Venn when he comes to
  live in their parish, and Mrs Venn, who tells the story, begins
  immediately to take an interest in Jimmy’s wife. She has reason to
  believe that one of two women is the lady in question. But which?
  Circumstances point sometimes to one, sometimes to the other. At the
  end the war breaks in on the events of the story, as it does in so
  many English novels of the day. It helps to solve the problem of Jimmy
  and his wife without in any way curbing the sprightliness of the
  narrative.

  “There are clever touches, evidently from close observation of real
  life. The author is smart, but not truthful, in the scenes wherein she
  presents the daily conversation in the rector’s family life. ... The
  principal blemish of the book is the writer’s evident satisfaction in
  her own mental dash and alertness.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 F 24 ‘17 280w

         =Dial= 62:148 F 22 ‘17 110w

  “The dominant situation resembles that of Mr Hay’s very clever tale of
  ‘The man who forgot.’ The conversations are the strong point of the
  novel.”

         =N Y Times= 22:155 Ap 15 ‘17 300w


=CHAMPNEY, ELIZABETH (WILLIAMS) (MRS JAMES WELLS CHAMPNEY), and
CHAMPNEY, FRÈRE.= Romance of old Japan. il *$3.50 Putnam 398.2 17-30304

  Colorful, atmospheric, this volume which is uniform with “Romance of
  old Belgium” traces the legends of the flowery isles—“traces the
  floating bubbles of romance which reveal the deeper tide of history.”
  There are the legends of the age of mythology, of mediæval days and of
  later times, legends in prose and verse with illustrations that bear
  out the spirit of the tales. The most tangible chapter of the book is
  the closing one, “Notable examples of Japanese architecture,”
  contributed by Frère Champney who is an acknowledged authority on the
  subject.

       + =Lit D= 55:38 D 8 ‘17 90w

  “It is not a scholarly work in any sense. The authors are careless of
  or indifferent to sources, and they handle their material with a
  romantic disregard for anything save its lurking charm. To this
  uncritical attitude is attached the further fault of a too unselective
  catholicity.”

     – + =N Y Times= 23:10 Ja 13 ‘18 180w

  “Both in text and illustration this volume well carries out its
  authors’ aim.”

       + =Outlook= 117:576 D 5 ‘17 30w

  “Lastly come the more modern romances suggestive of ‘Madame
  Butterfly.’ These tales lose something of the romantic reality and
  flavor of their precursors ... partly because the materialistic
  present seems to render ridiculous the sweetly appropriate actions of
  a halo-ed past when life was poetry, before a sense of humor had been
  born.” Ruth Stanley-Brown

     + — =Pub W= 92:2029 D 8 ‘17 620w

       + =Spec= 119:683 D 8 ‘17 40w

  “The volume is a pleasant doorway into the literature of old Japan.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 230w

  “It is a pleasantly got up book, well illustrated, and by no means as
  lengthy as the number of its pages might imply.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p587 N 29 ‘17 70w


=CHAN, SHIU WONG.= Chinese cook book. il *$1.50 Stokes 641.5 17-25804

  More than one hundred tested recipes of palatable Chinese dishes,
  explicit enough for every housewife and practicable for the
  restauranteur. Aside from the novelty of the dishes, the recipes are
  to be recommended for the success they achieve in furnishing a
  desirable mixed diet. One feature that recommends itself to housewives
  who are practicing Hoover restraint and economy is the substitution of
  peanut oil for butter.

  “The directions are so explicit that a woman with little experience
  can follow them.”

       + =Ind= 92:343 N 17 ‘17 300w


=CHANNING, EDWARD.= History of the United States. 8v v 4 *$2.75
Macmillan 973 (5-11649)

  =v 4= “This history deals with the period from 1789-1815, when
  Federalists and Republicans were the dominant political parties.
  Earlier volumes deal with the planting of a nation in the new world
  (1000-1660), a century of colonial history (1660-1760), and the
  American revolution (1761-1789). Eventually there will be eight
  volumes. ... The work represents an effort to search out the truth of
  statements of earlier writers, to analyze anew original material and
  to turn fresh light upon a period that is little understood by the
  average American and even among specialists is a subject of dispute
  and much disagreement. The notes and bibliography are especially
  valuable.”—Springf’d Republican

  “The discriminating reader will note the success with which Professor
  Channing solves his problem of writing a new book which is not merely
  a re-statement of what he wrote in the twelfth volume of the ‘American
  nation.’ It does not seem extravagant to say that for the period with
  which this volume deals Professor Channing must be regarded as having
  set a new light in the historical heavens in the United States which
  none of his successors will ignore. The most important general feature
  of the volume is that the author irons out the New England crimps that
  have long been noted in the history of this period. ... By a fresh
  examination of documents, with his mind divested of the ideas that he
  got from the older books, he composes his own narrative in which
  appears no sectional bias of either conscious or unconscious origin.”
  J: S. Bassett

 *     + =Am Hist R= 23:189 O ‘17 1600w

  “Special mention should be made of those chapters which deal with the
  organization of the new federal government, the rise of political
  parties, and the downfall of federalism.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:793 N ‘17 60w

       + =Ath= p530 O ‘17 60w

  “Professor Channing’s work is a little difficult to appraise justly.
  It is substantial, informing, and useful; one could not well afford to
  leave it off one’s shelves. Yet there is little, if anything, new in
  it. Perhaps this is as it should be in such a work. Nor are there new
  interpretations or evidences of very keen insight. ... Still if this
  work fails to show, as one might wish, the evolution of society in
  America, the meaning of events, and the influences of ideas, it is a
  useful reference work, an ever-ready friend in time of need, which all
  who are interested in American history should hasten to buy.” W: E.
  Dodd

 *     + =Dial= 63:60 Jl 19 ‘17 2100w

  “Valuable as Professor Channing’s work is, and indispensable as it is
  bound to become to the student of the history of the United States, we
  still think that the historian who performs his function rightly must
  deal not only with facts, but also with ideas, institutions, and the
  operation of historical and social forces, and must include the
  interpretation of evidence among his necessary attributes.”

 *   + – =Nation= 105:692 D 20 ‘17 1850w

  “The reader will be mistaken if he comes to the conclusion that he
  might as well turn back to his Hildreth and Schouler. Not so.
  Professor Channing does not write with the scissors and paste pot. He
  turns every topic over and views it in the light of the last results
  of historical research. ... There are many such judgments in Mr
  Channing’s pages, judgments that betray penetration and that long
  thoughtfulness which mark the true scholar off from the cheap critic
  and cheaper chauvinist. They betray also a mind of great natural
  powers, which, had it been devoted to a different type of historical
  construction, could have contributed still more to our understanding
  of the early phases of American politics.” C: A. Beard

       + =New Repub= 11:282 Jl 7 ‘17 1250w

       + =R of Rs= 56:215 Ag ‘17 110w

  “Of all the American historians with whom we are acquainted, he is the
  most supremely dispassionate and impartial.”

       + =Spec= 120:16 Ja 5 ‘18 1800w

  “The work is not easy reading, but it is not designed for popularity.
  Rather does it meet the needs of the student who would go into the
  complex currents of that day in search of a better understanding of
  the beginnings of this government.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Je 29 ‘17 450w


=CHAPIN, ANNA ALICE.= Greenwich village. il *$2.50 (3½c) Dodd 974.71
17-30045

  In spite of “our great streets, hemmed by stone and marble and
  glittering plate glass, crowded with kaleidoscopic cosmopolitan
  traffic, ceaselessly resonant with twentieth century activity,” Father
  Knickerbocker still “has a sanctuary, a haven after his own heart,
  where he can still draw a breath of relief, among buildings small but
  full of age and dignity and with the look of homes about them; on
  restful, crooked little streets where there remain trees and
  grassplots; in the old-time purlieus of Washington square and
  Greenwich village!” Browsing among Manhattan’s oldest records the
  writer has gleaned history, tradition and romance from the records
  that hold immortal the quaintest section of New York. She has also
  caught in her pages the magic of the village that holds Bohemia under
  its spell today. It is a very personal and careful handling of the
  personal soul of the village that has engaged the author of “Wonder
  tales from Wagner.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:126 Ja ‘18

  “Miss Chapin has diligently assembled all the points of interest in
  this holiday volume, to which Allan Gilbert Cram contributes sixteen
  full-page illustrations. They have produced a charming memorial of one
  of the most interesting spots in America.”

       + =Lit D= 55:38 D 8 ‘17 120w

         =Nation= 105:612 N 29 ‘17 90w

  “An interesting and attractive book. The author has studied her
  subject with care and in detail, and the artist has made charming
  drawings of the Washington arch and Milligan place, of Jefferson
  market and old St John’s. The book is pleasing, too, in its binding
  and general makeup.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:493 N 25 ‘17 780w


=CHAPIN, CHARLES VALUE.= How to avoid infection. (Harvard health talks)
*50c Harvard univ. press 614.4 17-7060

  “The present essay is one of a series of lectures sent out from the
  Harvard medical school on subjects of general medical interest. In
  this booklet [of 88 pages] Dr Charles V. Chapin tells us ‘How to avoid
  infection’ in terms that all can understand and in ways that all can
  follow. A discussion of bacteria and bacterial diseases is followed by
  a clear and concise statement of the more simple means at our disposal
  of safeguarding our health from the more prevalent troubles,
  especially those connected with the public drinking cup and public
  towel.”—Springf’d Republican

         =A L A Bkl= 13:381 Je ‘17

         =Pratt= p20 O ‘17 10w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 100w

  “Not often is the needed authoritative information made available in a
  form so compact and so interesting as that of Dr Chapin’s little
  pocket volume. It illustrates the changed emphasis from cure to
  prevention.” G. S.

       + =Survey= 39:171 N 17 ‘17 150w

  “Admirably practical and concise statement of the modes of infection
  and how a person or community may avoid them. By the author of
  ‘Sources and modes of infection.’”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:216 Jl ‘17 30w


=CHAPIN, FRANCIS STUART.= Historical introduction to social economy. il
*$2 (3c) Century 330.9 17-25499

  A study, in the light of present progress, of contrasting types of
  industrial organizations at different historical periods, and of
  public and private efforts made to relieve the poverty of each period.
  Elementary in treatment, the volume meets the need of a textbook for
  an introductory study in the history of social economy. Problems of
  early Greek and Roman civilization are reviewed; likewise, the
  industrial development at the end of the middle ages and the great
  social revolutions of modern times. The transition from remedial to
  constructive charity and preventive philanthropy is the theme for the
  closing chapters.

  Reviewed by S. A. Queen

     + — =Am J Soc= 23:549 Ja ‘18 220w

  “As far as it goes Professor Chapin’s ‘Social economy,’ is a
  stimulating and valuable book.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 D 29 ‘17 420w

  “The work is important in its analysis of the recurrent agrarian
  problems, particularly land distribution, of the productive systems of
  slavery and free labor, and of the historical changes in industrial
  organization.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 24 ‘18 500w

  “It is rather a wide subject for 300 pages, and it is necessarily a
  little sketchy. As a general introduction to a great subject the book
  is sound and valuable.” I. C. Hannah

     + — =Survey= 39:150 N 10 ‘17 140w


=CHAPIN, HENRY DWIGHT.= Health first; the fine art of living. *$1.50
(3½c) Century 614 17-23809

  An essentially common-sense book by a New York physician of long
  experience and high standing. He says: “In order to understand and
  properly manage any period, we must know the conditions that precede
  and are liable to follow it, so that we may make the necessary changes
  in our conduct of life. ... It is believed that in this way life can
  be prolonged and made more efficient.” (Preface) Dr Chapin therefore
  discusses, in a series of chapters, rational procedure from infancy to
  old age and also considers health from the outlook of nutrition, the
  avoidance of infection, climatic, local and moral influences. A
  practical book for the use of the individual reader in home or work.
  The publishers call it a “first aid to the well.”

         =Cleveland= p124 N ‘17 20w

  “The book is written in an agreeable, terse, and altogether readable
  style. It is a volume to be welcomed, to be read and returned to with
  lasting profit. The author is a recognized authority, of course, on
  his subject, and he presents it in important detail and interesting
  form.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:344 S 16 ‘17 980w

  “The few pages devoted to infancy contain more useful information than
  many a volume written on the subject. The description of adolescence
  is necessarily incomplete. On the other hand, the chapters on
  nutrition and infection contain the gist of the subject. ... There
  probably is no other book that covers the subject so well in so few
  pages.” Medicus

       + =N Y Call= p15 S 30 ‘17 200w

       + =Sat R= 123:412 My 5 ‘17 180w

  “A reading of the book should stimulate healthful thinking and should
  lead to the exercise of healthful precautions in daily life. For the
  application of individual details, however, it were wiser to consult a
  well-trained physician.” L. A. Jones

     + — =Survey= 39:472 Ja 26 ‘18 250w


=CHAPLIN, ALETHEA.= Treasury of fairy tales. il *50c (1½c) Crowell

  Six old fairy tales retold with sympathy and charm, with the necessary
  expurgation and change to warrant their having a safe bed-time effect.
  The stories are: Babes in the wood; Puss in boots; Hop o’ my Thumb;
  Jack and the bean stalk; Red Riding Hood; Cinderella.


=CHAPMAN, ARTHUR.= Out where the West begins, and other western verses.
*$1.25 Houghton 811 17-7485

  The title poem appeared first in a Denver newspaper and it has been
  copied and re-copied many times. The other poems of the book have a
  western flavor, too, as some of the titles will show: Cow-puncher
  philosophy; The sheriff’s report; The diamond hitch; The white man’s
  road; The herder’s reverie; Little papoose; The old-timer; Out among
  the big things; The pony express; The homesteader; The mother lode.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:120 Ja ‘18

  “Mr Chapman phrases the old facile philosophy of ‘God’s out-of-doors’
  in a manner not very novel or very attractive in itself. The title
  poem is merely an inept and sentimental phrasing of the braggadocio of
  the far West.” Odell Shepard

       — =Dial= 63:20 Je 28 ‘17 110w

  “Mr Arthur Chapman is one of the most popular of American poets, and
  he counts among his readers many who are not to be classified as
  poetry-lovers. Yet what he writes is poetry, imaginative and
  beautiful, but so filled with human sympathy that it appeals even to
  those who ordinarily are deaf to rime and rhythm.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1072 Ap 14 ‘17 370w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:61 Ap ‘17

  “Some are in cowboy language and nearly all are serious in tone.”

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:155 My ‘17 40w


=CHAPMAN, CHARLES FREDERIC.= Practical motor boat handling, seamanship
and piloting, il *$1 Motor boating, 119 W. 40th st., N.Y. 797 17-12272

  “Twenty-one timely and concise chapters by the editor of Motor Boating
  upon the subjects of navigation, regulations, lights, buoys,
  equipment, compasses and charts, piloting, helpful publications,
  instruments, flags, signals, yachting etiquette, steering, and meals.”
  (N Y P L New Tech Bks) “Especially prepared for the man who takes
  pride in handling his own boat and getting the greatest enjoyment out
  of cruising; adapted for the yachtsman interested in fitting himself
  to be of service to his government in time of war.” (Sub-title)

         =A L A Bkl= 13:432 Jl ‘17

         =Cleveland= p110 S ‘17

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p10 Ap ‘17 30w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:662 O ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p23 O ‘17 30w

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 30w


=CHAPMAN, JAMES CROSBY, and RUSH, GRACE PREYER.= Scientific measurement
of classroom products. il $1.25 Silver 371.3 17-9714

  A book which “describes quite clearly—in fact, often as to a child or
  a moron—the several scales that have been devised for the measurement
  of ability in arithmetic, handwriting, reading, spelling, English
  composition, completion of sentences, and drawing. The authors regard
  the application of scientific measurement to school products as ‘the
  greatest contribution which has been made to education in the last ten
  years’; but they do not minimize the difficulties to be met with in
  the application of the various methods devised, and counsel caution to
  the over-enthusiastic convert.” (Nation) There is a three-page
  bibliography.

       + =Cleveland= p123 N ‘17 80w

  “The writer of a text on educational measurement takes upon himself
  the responsibility of (1) selecting the best representative scales and
  standard tests to put before teachers, (2) evaluating these carefully,
  (3) presenting them in non-technical language, (4) showing how they
  can be and are being used to set standards of attainment and to
  improve teaching in a very definite way, and (5) supplying the teacher
  with a completely organized and well-annotated bibliography of tests
  and scales that are now available. ‘The scientific measurement of
  classroom products’ is deficient on nearly every one of these
  counts. ... Because of all these deficiencies, we do not commend this
  publication as a representative discussion in the field of educational
  measurement.”

 *   – – =El School J= 17:765 Je ‘17 1150w

         =Nation= 105:259 S 6 ‘17 360w


=CHAPMAN, VICTOR EMMANUEL.= Victor Chapman’s letters from France. il
*$1.25 Macmillan 940.91 17-14800

  Victor Chapman was a young American who was killed at Verdun in June,
  1916. He was in Paris studying architecture in the summer of 1914, and
  he enlisted at once in the Foreign legion, and became a member of the
  Franco-American flying corps. This book consists largely, as its title
  states, of his letters written from France, but there is also a
  memoir, written by his father John Jay Chapman, together with other
  tributes.

  “Remarkable letters, spontaneous and without self-consciousness.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:18 O ‘17

  “His letters, more than all the short sketch which precedes them, show
  us the young legionnaire and aviator in his true colors—as one to whom
  danger was life itself, to whom pretension and heroics were as foreign
  as fear, who took life, so be it a life of action, as a glorious
  adventure, and death as the most natural and perhaps the most glorious
  adventure of all.” R. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 470w

  “The memoir by his father is an emotionally reserved but curiously
  vivid sketch of the young Victor.”

       + =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 130w

  “Victor’s letters should endear him to readers principally for the
  whole-hearted enthusiasm shown for the cause for which he fought and
  for his boyish naïveté and buoyant youthfulness. The letters are
  interesting as revelations of character. They shed a strong and
  illuminating light on trench conditions and the every-day experiences
  of soldiers in France. It is a book of touching and pathetic as well
  as inspiring revelations.”

       + =Lit D= 55:34 S 29 ‘17 200w

       + =Nation= 105:462 O 25 ‘17 200w

  “His letters express his passion for landscape, for the French
  countryside he could look down on, for the clouds near which he was so
  much at home. He and his mother come to life again, and will live with
  a tragic intensity forever, in this ‘Memoir,’ where Mr Chapman speaks
  of them with a passion of candor that is lonelier than any reticence.”
  P. L.

       + =New Repub= 12:22 Ag 4 ‘17 1450w

  “They are graphic letters that show imaginative feeling and unusual
  faculty for literary expression, and they are filled with details of
  his daily life and duties and reflect the keen satisfaction he was
  taking in his experiences.”

         =N Y Times= 22:200 My 20 ‘17 650w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:680 O ‘17 100w

         =Pratt= p39 O ‘17 20w

       + =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 120w


=CHASE, MARY ELLEN.= Virginia of Elk Creek valley. il *$1.35 (3c) Page
17-10859

  This book is a sequel to “The girl from the Big Horn country,”
  published in 1916, which told how Virginia Hunter left her father’s
  cattle ranch in Wyoming and went east to school. In the new volume,
  practically all the action takes place on or near the ranch which is
  Virginia’s home, and to which she invites her eastern friends in the
  summer vacation. The only love affair in the story is that of
  Virginia’s Aunt Nan, and that is touched on but lightly.


=CHEKHOV, ANTON PAVLOVICH.= House with the mezzanine, and other stories;
tr. from the Russian by S. S. Koteliansky and Gilbert Cannan. *$1.35
(2c) Scribner 17-22089

  “My life,” the longest of the seven stories, takes up about half the
  book. The other stories are: The house with the mezzanine; Typhus;
  Gooseberries; In exile; The lady with the toy dog; Goussiev. “The lady
  with the toy dog” appears in the third volume of Chekhov’s tales
  translated by Mrs Garnett and published by Macmillan as “The lady with
  the dog.”

  Reviewed by L: S. Friedland

 *     + =Dial= 64:27 Ja 3 ‘18 2350w

  Reviewed by Alvin Johnson

       + =New Repub= 13:sup12 N 17 ‘17 320w

  “Chekhov, with the subtle skill of the etcher, transforms the ordinary
  into the artistic. This is his miracle of creation.” L: S. Friedland

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ja 12 ‘18 300w

  “He is, above all things, a lover of beauty. If he were not, he could
  not hate ugliness so much. ... In the present volume his sensitiveness
  becomes almost morbid. ... Tchekoff is an artist, not a propagandist,
  and he holds out no panacea for the conditions he portrays. But he
  places a suggestion in the mouth of Misrail, the ineffectual, wasted
  idealist, that is very significant—i.e., that in order that man should
  not enslave his fellows, nor build up a prison house of greed and
  egotism about himself, ‘it was necessary that all without
  exception—the strong and the weak, the rich and the poor—should share
  equally in the struggle for existence, every man for himself, and in
  that respect there was no better means of leveling than physical labor
  and compulsory service for all.’ ... The world is coming to see that
  universal service of one sort or another is a national duty. ...
  William James has offered it as a substitute for war. Tchekoff offers
  it as a necessity of peace.”

         =N Y Times= 22:329 S 9 ‘17 1800w

  “The popularity of Anton Chekhov, or at any rate, the attempt to
  popularize him, is evidenced from the fact that two publishers are
  concurrently bringing out what must eventually be his complete
  works. ... There is much overlapping, and as even the most
  enthusiastic Russophile would not want both sets, the question comes
  to one of translation. Cursory comparisons fail to settle the
  question. Mrs Garnett has probably rendered more Russian into English
  than has Mr Cannan, but Mr Cannan is not unskilled, and imparts a
  finish to the work, which does not mean lack of fidelity to the
  original, that makes it read as smoothly as does Mrs Garnett’s
  version, which is no mean praise.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 6 ‘17 330w


=CHEKHOV, ANTON PAVLOVICH.= Lady with the dog, and other stories; tr.
from the Russian by Constance Garnett. *$1.50 (2c) Macmillan 17-15285

  “This is the third volume out of the six in which Mrs Garnett’s
  translations of Tchehov’s tales are to be issued.” (The Times [London]
  Lit Sup) “One or two of the stories have already appeared in different
  translations.” (Boston Transcript) The longest of the nine tales, “An
  anonymous story,” takes up about a third of the book. The other
  stories are: The lady with the dog; A doctor’s visit; An upheaval;
  Ionitch; The head of the family; The black monk (a story of madness);
  Volodya; The husband.

  “Any one with a turn for sampling stories by looking at the last page
  might well be put off by the uniform ending of these tales in suicide,
  disillusionment, or gross abandonment to the sensual sty, and suspect
  a formula of pessimism and tragedy on the author’s part. But they are
  various enough in theme, if monotonously grim in colouring; and they
  belong to various periods in Chekhov’s life, the most poetical of
  them, ‘The black monk,’ having appeared in English as long ago as
  1903.”

         =Ath= p416 Ag ‘17 280w

  “It is said that among the more modern masters of Russian fiction,
  Chekhov is accorded the first place by his own people. No doubt it
  takes a Russian fully to appreciate the significance of this, for the
  writings of Chekhov lack the extraordinary beauty of Sologub’s, the
  simple charm of Kuprin’s, the deep tragedy of Andreiev’s and the
  tensity of Maxim Gorky’s. But as the characteristics of all these
  writers are to be found in Chekhov’s pages, together with a distinct
  individuality, perhaps he really does give a saner and more truly
  typical picture of his people, thus explaining the veneration in which
  his memory and writings are said to be held in Russia. ... ‘A doctor’s
  visit’ is the unforgettable story of the book. It seems to us to be
  one of the finest stories of capital and labor ever written.” J. F. S.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 650w

       + =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 40w

  Reviewed by L: S. Friedland

 *     + =Dial= 64:27 Ja 3 ‘18 2350w

  “Mr Edward Garnett has said that Chekhov is ‘an unflinching realist,
  with a poet’s sensitiveness to beauty.’ ‘A true realist’ might better
  express it all, if we were to permit the phrase its higher
  meaning. ... Hapless mortals, striving vainly for self-fulfilment, for
  happiness; frustrate in the end, but not ignoble: such are the figures
  with which this little world of Chekhov’s is mainly peopled.”

         =Nation= 105:70 Jl 19 ‘17 400w

  Reviewed by Alvin Johnson

       + =New Repub= 13:sup12 N 17 ‘17 320w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:131 S ‘17 20w

         =N Y Times= 22:274 Jl 22 ‘17 830w

  “In one way or another, that opposition between the claims of the ego
  and the inevitability of ‘what is going on about us’ is almost as
  persistent in Tchehov as it is in the novels of Mr Hardy. ... Life
  interested him, hurt him, puzzled him; and the more it puzzled him, it
  might be thought, the more urgently he felt the need of expressing its
  effect upon him, touching with the nicest restraint upon the
  significant though homely details which emphasized the puzzling
  interest by bringing it to the very doors of his Russian readers. An
  English reader who does not know Tchehov’s Russia can never, perhaps,
  appreciate the full force of those details; but many, perhaps most of
  them, stand good for any civilized country of the modern world.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p306 Je 28 ‘17 1200w

  “Chekhov can forgive any sin of the body or the mind except the sin
  against the Holy Ghost—the failure to understand the joys and sorrows
  of the imagination.” W: L. Phelps

       + =Yale R= n s 7:189 O ‘17 500w


=CHEKHOV, ANTON PAVLOVICH.= Party, and other stories. *$1.50 (2c)
Macmillan 17-23646

  This is the fourth volume in the new series of Chekhov’s tales
  translated from the Russian by Constance Garnett. Contents: The party;
  Terror; A woman’s kingdom; A problem; The kiss; “Anna on the neck”;
  The teacher of literature; Not wanted; Typhus; A misfortune; A trifle
  from life. Another translation of “Typhus” appears in Chekhov’s “House
  with the mezzanine, and other stories,” published by Scribner.

  “This volume includes eleven tales of a high level of merit. While
  there is considerable diversity in the subjects and methods of
  treatment, the general sombre atmosphere and feeling of uneasiness and
  dissatisfaction make it desirable that the tales should be taken
  singly in order to be fully appreciated.”

       + =Ath= p597 N ‘17 140w

  “There are eleven tales in this volume, and in none of them is life
  found anything better than unintelligible. The sweetness and
  spirituality have been carefully extracted from life, and there is
  left a sort of carnival of sordidness and inconsequence which is like
  a nightmare of the soul. It is nothing to say that these tales are not
  Christian. They are not even in the nobler tradition of paganism.”

       — =Cath World= 106:689 F ‘18 360w

  Reviewed by L: S. Friedland

 *     + =Dial= 64:27 Ja 3 ‘18 2350w

  “Chekhov, in ‘The party and other stories,’ shows himself again a
  master of the art of character drawing. With all its power, however,
  the book, like so much of Chekhov’s work, is depressing and gloomy.
  Its keynote is human feebleness, human futility. There is not one
  instance in it of a man or woman fighting against and overcoming
  adverse circumstances by force of will.”

     + — =Ind= 93:150 Ja 26 ‘18 150w

  “If we really wish to understand Russia, we have much to learn from
  Chekov. Read ‘The party’ and you will know at least something of the
  life of the intelligent upper classes of the provinces. ... Chekov is
  concerned mainly with middle class and aristocratic life,
  fundamentally in a false position among the benighted and exploited
  millions. Inevitably there is much that is pathological in life thus
  artificially limited, much that is corrupt and more that is futile.
  The effect is sometimes depressing, but no intelligent reader would
  wish it relieved. Chekov gives us nothing that we do not need to know,
  if we wish to understand Russia.” Alvin Johnson

       + =New Repub= 13:sup12 N 17 ‘17 320w

  “‘The party’ is a terrifying piece of realism, indicting the ordinary
  artificialities of life with a power which would seem as excessive as
  that used to break the proverbial butterfly on the wheel, if we were
  not at the same time made to feel that an existence made up of these
  artificialities is spiritually and even physically ruinous—a lingering
  death-in-life. Chekhov is the modern Preacher. An evil hath he seen
  under the sun.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:570 D 23 ‘17 670w

       + =Outlook= 117:134 O 3 ‘17 20w

  “‘The party’ is a powerful, grimly realistic tale.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:557 N ‘17 70w


=CHENEY, SHELDON.= Art theatre. il *$1.50 (3c) Knopf 792 17-30697

  A study of the art theatre, its ideals, its organization and its
  promise as a corrective for present playhouse evils. The writer
  believes that the art theatre must become the corrective first for the
  shortcomings of the little theatre. His point of view differs from
  that of some of the writers about little theatres, in that he
  considers the little theatre only a step towards something better. “In
  all the excitement about little theatres we are in danger of losing
  sight of the higher ideal—the art theatre.” Next the art theatre must
  correct the evils of the commercialized theatre with its destructive
  practice of creating and exploiting “stars.” The real art of the
  theatre, he thinks, must be established thru the development of fixed
  local playhouses with resident companies dedicated to repertory
  production of the best that dramatic art has to offer.

  “As a man of experience and vision, he does not fall into the error of
  trying to ‘uplift’ the commercial theater. It can’t be done, and he
  knows it.” L: Gardy

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ja 12 ‘18 730w

  “Deals to a certain extent with the same subject as Mr Dickinson’s
  book, but views it from so different an angle and discusses it with so
  different an individuality that the two books admirably supplement
  each other and should both be read by any one who desires all the
  illumination of the question it is possible to have. A chapter of
  bibliography, with running comment upon the books mentioned, will add
  greatly to the book’s value to the student.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:578 D 30 ‘17 300w

  “What these theaters mean in the process of the democratization in our
  national life, and in the development of a fresh and vital art
  impulse, Mr Sheldon Cheney tells us in a stirring and captivating
  book.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:107 Ja ‘18 350w


=CHÉRADAME, ANDRÉ.= Pangerman plot unmasked; Berlin’s formidable
peace-trap of “the drawn war”; with an introd. by Lord Cromer. il *$1.25
(2c) Scribner 327.4 17-1796

  “By pan-Germanism Mr Chéradame means ‘the doctrine, of purely Prussian
  origin, which aims at annexing all the various regions, irrespective
  of race or language, of which the possession is deemed useful to the
  power of the Hohenzollerns.’ This doctrine, the author claims, is one
  of steady growth and accretion, and a realization of it has already
  been on the verge of achievement. He holds even that acceptance of the
  German offer of a drawn game would make it real within a decade at the
  furthest.”—Lit D

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:305 Ap ‘17

  “To review the book adequately would be to quote it in its entirety,
  for every page is of significance. It is by all means the most
  pregnant volume on the deeper issues of the war that has come under
  our eyes.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Ja 31 ‘17 700w

         =Cleveland= p45 Mr ‘17 60w

  “Useful for its vigorous handling of the geographical issues
  involved.” H. J. Laski

       + =Dial= 62:96 F 8 ‘17 30w

         =Ind= 89:558 Mr 26 ‘17 110w

  “Mr Chéradame has concentrated on this subject for over twenty years,
  in studies in the very lands now occupied or directed by the Germans.”

       + =Lit D= 54:413 F 17 ‘17 350w

  “The neutral nations are vitally concerned in this. ... His book is
  arresting, pertinent, unforgettably challenging to serious thought.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:18 Ja 21 ‘17 750w

  “It is not surprising that M. Chéradame, an eager student of
  international politics from his youth up, and a pupil of Albert Sorel,
  should have derived from these sources a point of view quite different
  from that of the ordinary French or English official diplomatist. ...
  Entirely apart from any conclusions that may be thought speculative,
  there are in this book of M. Chéradame’s certain truths of fundamental
  importance which ought to be widely appreciated, especially in the
  United States.”

       + =No Am= 206:477 S ‘17 1000w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:685 O ‘17 70w

         =St Louis= 15:73 Mr ‘17

  “We cannot commend to our readers a better collection of facts from
  which to derive a wise caution at this critical turn of events than is
  contained in this important work. ... Pan-Germanism, which was the
  source of the war, aims at creating a great military empire stretching
  from the North sea to the Persian gulf. ... Even as the situation is,
  Germany has executed nine-tenths of the pan-German plan of 1911. ...
  The substance of the whole book is a most impressive political
  argument, very cogent and extraordinarily opportune.”

       + =Spec= 117:805 D 23 ‘16 2050w

  “No British writer has so firm a grip as M. Chéradame upon the
  countless ramifications of the pan-German movement.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p618 D 21 ‘16 850w


=CHESTERTON, CECIL EDWARD.= Perils of peace; with an introd. by Hilaire
Belloc. *2s T. W. Laurie, London 940.91 (Eng ed 16-20285)

  “Mr Chesterton’s book is a warning against any compromise or
  patched-up peace with the enemy, of which he considers there is
  danger. Three factors in the politics of this country he regards as
  mainly concerned in the problem: pacificism, with which he associates
  the names of Mr Macdonald, Mr Snowden, and others; financiers with
  cosmopolitan concerns; and our system of government by professional
  politicians. Mr Chesterton is severe upon the ministers in power.
  Alluding to their decision to fight Germany, he remarks that ‘they
  achieved the most popular act of their largely misspent lives.’ He
  considers that if the war proceeds to exhaustion, the Central powers
  will be exhausted first, and will therefore be obliged to accept the
  Allies’ terms. A compromise would, for the Allies and especially Great
  Britain, be disastrous.”—Ath

  “We notice some misprints; everywhere Mr Snowden’s name is spelt
  ‘Snowdon.’”

         =Ath= p438 S ‘16 240w

  “I do not in the least disagree with Mr Cecil Chesterton in the
  immediate object of his book, which is, to avert a sudden laying down
  of our arms. But I see no danger of that: we are far more likely to go
  on fighting long after there is nothing more to be gained by it. For
  the rest the book is full of the most frightful nonsense.” G. B. S.

         =New Repub= 9:270 Ja 6 ‘17 9000w


=CHESTERTON, GILBERT KEITH.= Short history of England. *$1.50 (2½c) Lane
942 17-29757

  At the start Mr Chesterton challenges the claim of so called popular
  histories to the word popular. “They are all, nearly without
  exception, written against the people; and in them the populace is
  either ignored or elaborately proved to have been wrong.” It is his
  aim to produce, therefore, a history from the standpoint of the
  public, one that does not trample upon popular traditions. His book is
  a small one on a big subject; but as he strides down the centuries of
  England’s progress he pauses at the epoch-making forces long enough to
  estimate their power and influence in shaping the nation’s course. He
  dismisses the detail of transitional happenings with a sentence. He
  places the crisis in English history at the fall of Richard II where
  the king and the populace for a moment came together, instead of
  placing it about the period of the Stuarts. Turning to the present
  world struggle he sees in defeat nothing before England but the
  servile state; in success, freedom from a yoke of slavery which is
  another word for militarism.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:122 Ja ‘18

  “You open his pages—perhaps you distrust him and doubt him—but whether
  you agree with him or disagree, whether you are pleased or annoyed,
  you inevitably go on reading.”

     + — =Ath= p659 D ‘17 300w

  “It is a trifle that a book should be sometimes too exuberant. The
  main thing is that it should be alive. And Mr Chesterton’s history is
  not only alive, but kicking. It has so much of the truth of
  imagination that it may be forgiven for having some of its falsehood
  as well.”

     + — =Ath= p661 D ‘17 1650w

  “On the whole, it is one of his best books, the tendency to verbal
  display and superficial antithesis being balanced by the demands of a
  sustained argument.”

     + — =Ath= p683 D ‘17 200w

  “This book, a pioneer in historical introspection, must kindle severe
  criticism for its superficial conclusions, inferentially at least,
  against the assertion of spirited leadership in transition eras, when
  the persistence of ‘one good custom should corrupt the world.’ ...
  However, Mr Chesterton is to be welcomed in this new rôle of political
  philosopher for the fresh interest he brings.” L. E. Robinson

     + — =Bookm= 46:270 N ‘17 700w

  “But it is true of Chesterton’s ‘History of England,’ as it is true of
  any work of art, that the sanctities which it violates are not so
  important as the vision which inspires it.” R. K. Hack

 *     + =Dial= 64:65 Ja 17 ‘18 1450w

  “Finally, Chesterton is unable to make his book wholly impartial; it
  is a partizan history, as bitter against the aristocracy as Macaulay
  was against the Stuarts and as pro-Catholic as Froude was
  anti-Catholic. Chesterton is at his best as a historian when he sums
  up for us the general ‘atmosphere’ of an age or an institution.”

     + — =Ind= 93:128 Ja 19 ‘18 1100w

  “Mr Chesterton’s thesis is that the middle ages were the time of true
  democracy, and that parliamentary government is government by an
  anti-popular oligarchy. Upon this general theme he has written a
  strange and fascinating history of England.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:501 N 25 ‘17 700w

       + =R of Rs= 57:103 Ja ‘18 170w

  “We love Mr Chesterton—we could ‘hug him’, as Johnson said of a man in
  whom he discovered his own preference for rhyme—for his real
  understanding of and sympathy with the rhetoric and the aristocracy of
  the eighteenth century. Mr Chesterton’s ‘Short history’ is the
  wittiest, most eloquent, and discerning essay on the history of
  England which we have ever happened to read.”

       + =Sat R= 124:395 N 17 ‘17 1100w

  “Unsuited, therefore, as Mr Chesterton’s style is to history, it is
  still less suited to propagandism. ... A paradoxical partisan runs
  very little chance of winning converts. When we want clear thinking he
  gives us a jingling antithesis; in the words of Bagehot’s invaluable
  distinction, he can make a loud argument but not a fine one. ... And
  yet, when we have counted all the faults of the book, we return to its
  great outstanding merits: its freshness, its vitality, its interest.”

   + – — =Spec= 119:493 N 3 ‘17 1500w

  “Nevertheless the book is a brilliant history of Mr Chesterton’s
  reactions from English history.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 18 ‘17 900w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p507 O 18 ‘17 140w

  “It would be vain to review this book as a history of England, for it
  is interesting only as an expression of Mr Chesterton’s mentality. The
  historian is well aware that he can only see the past through a glass
  of many colours, but he knows that the business of his science is to
  dispel, so far as possible, the distortions of the various media
  through which historical knowledge is transmitted. But to Mr
  Chesterton the distortion is the reality.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p564 N 22 ‘17 1550w


=CHESTERTON, GILBERT KEITH.= Utopia of usurers, and other essays. *$1.25
(4c) Boni & Liveright 304 17-26888

  The “Utopia of usurers” is an attack on modern society, with special
  reference to Great Britain. Mr Chesterton “is up in arms against the
  terror of a world which shall be ruled—in politics and literature and
  art and all things else—by its ‘captains of industry.’” (N Y Times) He
  is particularly concerned about “the way in which the capitalists of
  today use art and the press for their own purposes. His spleen, it
  seems, is largely directed against the liberal press.” (Springf’d
  Republican) Some chapters such as: The amnesty for aggression, The
  servile state again, and The tower of Bebel, deal with the European
  war. Other chapters are: The mask of socialism; A workman’s history of
  England; The French revolution and the Irish; The art of missing the
  point, etc. Two poems are included: A song of swords and The escape.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:85 D ‘17

  “The general scope of his latest book, ‘Utopia of usurers,’ is
  sociological, but it rambles so wildly and discursively through those
  regions that we doubt if anyone who is diligent enough to read it to
  the bitter end will have a well-formed idea of his theory of the
  structure and organization of modern society. ... He gives us the
  impression of the orator who has a plethora of words and a dearth of
  ideas and who begins to talk and keeps on talking simply because a
  multitude of English phrases are at his command and he cannot resist
  the temptation to use them. ... His wit is not so agile as it once
  was.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 31 ‘17 1650w

  “The work is an impassioned plea, unmarred by any of the demagogue’s
  shallow eloquence, for the natural rights of men and the restoration
  of their earlier liberties. If there is somewhat less than usual of Mr
  Chesterton’s wit, it is by no means wholly absent; and there is no
  lack of wisdom, based upon enduring truths and expressed with the
  clearness of a tocsin.”

       + =Cath World= 106:539 Ja ‘18 400w

  Reviewed by E: Sapir

 *       =Dial= 64:25 Ja 3 ‘18 1650w

  “The average literary critic always says that Chesterton is an
  amusing, entertaining, attractive concocter of paradoxes but that he
  is not sincere and must not be taken seriously. Chesterton’s latest
  volume is neither amusing nor attractive, it is certainly the least
  enjoyable book which he has ever written, but it has a savage
  earnestness that puts the charge of insincerity out of court
  completely.”

       + =Ind= 92:256 N 3 ‘17 350w

  “The ‘Utopia of usurers’ is distinctly among the ‘negative’ creations
  of Chesterton, and it takes high rank among those creations. Like all
  his iconoclastic works, the ‘Utopia’ is a negation only in an
  objective sense: it is destruction which is positive in its purpose.
  Chesterton’s natural weapon is the hammer of Thor—in the service of
  Christ. And in his latest book he utilizes this ancient weapon against
  something very modern and vital, indeed—capitalism.” E. J. Mayer

       + =N Y Call= p15 N 25 ‘17 1000w

  “He sums up the advocacy of eugenics as ‘one of the most strange,
  simple, and horrible ideas that have ever risen from the deep pit of
  original sin.’ He is against the ‘social reforms’ of modern government
  with all the strength of his being. Of the view of English history
  which is ‘current at public schools and colleges, part of the culture
  of all the classes that count for much in government,’ he says flatly:
  ‘There is not one word of truth in it from beginning to end.’ He is
  the reactionary radical here as elsewhere. Some of his essays are
  exceedingly dogmatic. With some of his passionate convictions the
  reader will not agree. But every page of the book is interesting.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:448 N 4 ‘17 1150w

  “He who possesses the rhetorical power of Mr Chesterton and uses that
  power to falsify current history, misinterpret motives, and stir up
  class hatred is guilty of a crime against humanity.”

       — =Outlook= 117:518 N 28 ‘17 240w

  “‘Utopia of usurers’ is Chesterton a little grouchy, but Chesterton at
  his best or very near his best. The object of the satirist’s attack is
  modern plutocratic society, and, if he is not always at pains to
  distinguish what is bad from what is good in that society he is always
  amusing, without being too paradoxical to be pointless.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 1400w


=CHEVRILLON, ANDRÉ.= England and the war (1914-1915). *$1.60 (2c)
Doubleday 940.91 17-15314

  M. Chevrillon, a nephew of Taine, has lived in England, has many
  English friends, and has visited outlying parts of the empire. Rudyard
  Kipling says in his preface to the volume that Chevrillon writes “with
  the knowledge of the psychologist and the profound sympathy of one
  long acquainted with our lives, our history, and the expression,
  formal or idiomatic, of our thoughts.” The book is “a psychological
  study of the English mind in the first eighteen months of war.” (Dial)
  It tells how “England awoke from a mood of self-complacency to the
  consciousness of being engaged in a life and death struggle; how a
  dead weight of cherished traditions, habits, and prejudices, all
  connected with much that is best in her life, was cast aside; and how
  her scattered and incoherent energies were welded into one collective
  and disciplined will.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) All this is
  discussed under the captions: Public opinion; The illusion of
  security; The appeal to conscience; The men; The need of adaptation;
  Adaptation; To-day and to-morrow. The papers were first published in
  the Revue de Paris from November, 1915, to January, 1916.

  “His book is not history in the technical sense. But it is the raw
  material of history and of the greatest value. The French quickness of
  understanding and ability to put oneself in another’s place come here
  to the advantage of the future historian.” G. B. A.

       + =Am Hist R= 23:432 Ja ‘18 550w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:18 O ‘17

  “The best treatment of that aspect of events [national psychology]
  that has yet appeared, and much of it is applicable, for one reason or
  another to life on this side of the Atlantic.” C. H. P. Thurston

       + =Bookm= 46:286 N ‘17 240w

       + =Cath World= 106:397 D ‘17 310w

         =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 70w

  “When allowance for the human fact of conviction is made this is the
  best interim study of the English attitude the war has so far
  produced.” H. J. Laski

     + — =Dial= 63:53 Jl 19 ‘17 1900w

  “Tho M. Chevrillon’s study does not surpass or, indeed, nearly equal
  that revelation of the English mind presented by Mr H. G. Wells, yet
  skilfully made is his clean cut distinction between the British
  sporting conception of war and the German vision of its glory.”

     + — =Ind= 91:474 S 22 ‘17 200w

  “This may be regarded as the thesis of the book, the power of religion
  and an inborn sense of duty to take the place of intelligent
  governmental control before a great and sudden emergency. As coming
  from a clear-eyed Frenchman, this study of a national temperament very
  different from his own is peculiarly valuable.”

       + =Nation= 105:128 Ag 2 ‘17 200w

  “It ought to be read by Americans as much for the light it throws on
  our own processes as for the sake of making us understand better our
  English cousins.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:261 Jl 15 ‘17 800w

  “M. Chevrillon is, of course, no such theorist as was Taine; but he
  has a very similar sensitiveness to national character and a like gift
  of selecting and developing the essential elements. In this there is
  something more than simple thesis-building or than unambitious
  description. It is a combination, so to speak, of trenchant analysis
  with artistic handling, of intellectual and moral honesty with the
  desire to please. Like Taine, too, M. Chevrillon is perhaps a little
  prone to exaggerate. But to exaggerate only in the interests of
  clearness! If M. Chevrillon’s book really expresses in any degree the
  attitude of France toward England, it is reasonable to expect that
  there will be not merely a continued alliance between these two
  peoples, but a true and enduring friendship.”

       + =No Am= 206:637 O ‘17 1000w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:761 N ‘17 110w

  “Some of this comment has been made obsolete by later developments.
  But, as a study of the English mind in contrast with the German, the
  book is interesting and it may also prove useful as a piece of
  friendly criticism.”

     + — =R of Rs= 56:213 Ag ‘17 100w

  “A piece of contemporary history which has, we think, a permanent
  value.”

       + =Spec= 119:sup630 D 1 ‘17 180w

  “If there is any one deficiency in a narrative and in comments vivid,
  pointed, and studiously fair, it is a somewhat insufficient
  appreciation of the work of the navy in our days of limited military
  inactivity.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p279 Je 14 ‘17 1350w


=CHILDS, LESLIE.= Legal points for automobile owners. 50c (7c) Ogilvie
629.2 17-14172

  “The compiler has endeavored to set out, in a few words, the general
  rules governing the operation of automobiles, and the liabilities for
  violations thereof. This is in no sense a text book, is not intended
  for the use of lawyers, or others learned in the law, but for the man
  in the street, the farmer, the business or professional man, in fact
  any owner of a car.” (Preface) Among the points covered are: The
  employer’s liability for acts of his chauffeur; On turning corners;
  Frightening horses; When required to stop; Unregistered automobile;
  Unlicensed chauffeur; Lending your automobile.

       + =Ind= 91:77 Jl 14 ‘17 40w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:664 O ‘17 10w

         =St Louis= 15:330 S ‘17


=CHILDS, W. J.= Across Asia Minor on foot. il *$4 (2½c) Dodd 915.6 (Eng
ed 17-26394)

  The author started from Samsûn on the Black sea and traveled, by a
  somewhat devious route, to Alexandretta on the Mediterranean. His
  experiences were pleasant ones and he writes of them entertainingly.
  He says, “Only in the quality of adventure did realisation fall short
  of what might have been expected. Brigandage and robbery, fighting
  between troops and deserters, murder and forcible abductions—affairs
  of this kind took place before and behind me, but I missed them ever,
  sometimes by days, sometimes only by hours, and moved always, it
  seemed, in the peaceful intervals between storms. For this reason no
  blood-shedding, no hair-breadth escapes will be found in the
  narrative.” His journey was taken in the days before the war and he
  met with universal kindness, from American, German, Turk, Armenian and
  Greek. In his last chapter he touches on the international
  significance of the undeveloped resources of Asia Minor.

  “Incidentally sheds light on the Armenian situation before the war and
  the German plan for a railway to Bagdad.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:397 Je ‘17

  “Not only lovers of travel but those readers desiring to understand as
  much as possible local conditions in the various fighting areas of the
  war will find Mr Childs’ book a revelation. ... For on the same
  battle-scarred terrain where Alexander and Cæsar fought for that world
  hegemony only the control of the travel route to India and the Far
  East could give the armies of the Allies are fighting today.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 11 ‘17 800w

  “A tale of adventure of never slackening interest from beginning to
  end.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:196 My 20 ‘17 200w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:677 O ‘17 60w

  “The illustrations are attractive, but we are rather surprised that an
  obviously competent writer has forgotten the detail of an index.”

       + =Sat R= 123:233 Mr 10 ‘17 830w

  “Exceptionally attractive and brilliant book of travel. ... Mr Childs
  does not devote much space to politics. He has too many other subjects
  to deal with, and, like Borrow, prefers the wind on the heath or a
  night in a crowded tavern among alien folk to debating high matters of
  state. But his shrewd estimates of the native peoples are fresh and
  valuable.”

       + =Spec= 118:273 Mr 3 ‘17 1950w

  “To some not the least interesting part of the book is the indication
  constantly given as the traveller gets farther south of the large
  far-seeing policy which the Germans have for the last twenty years
  been slowly, quietly, and consistently carrying out in the East. ...
  We are grateful for a book which enables us to share the romance of
  one great road before the railway opens up its hidden places and
  destroys its guarded secrets.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p221 My 10 ‘17 1350w


=CHITWOOD, OLIVER PERRY.= Immediate causes of the great war. *$1.35 (3c)
Crowell 940.91 17-13588

  “The object of this volume is to narrate briefly the direct causes of
  the European war as they are given in the published documents of the
  belligerents. These sources are abundantly adequate for determining
  the immediate responsibility of each nation and apportioning the guilt
  for this great crime.” (Preface) The author is professor of European
  history in West Virginia university, and he says that his experience
  as a teacher has shown him the need for such a work. Contents: Some
  indirect causes of the war; The assassination of Francis Ferdinand;
  The Austro-Hungarian note to Serbia; Serbia’s reply to
  Austria-Hungary; Efforts to prevent war; Efforts to isolate the war;
  The war area broadens; Great Britain declares war on the Teutonic
  powers; The violation of the neutrality of Belgium; Japan and Turkey
  drawn into the conflict; Italy enters the war; The lesser
  belligerents.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:88 D ‘17

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 50w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:101 Jl ‘17

  “Persons who do not have access to the various official statements of
  the governments at war, or do not have time to read the evidence
  therein presented, will find this summary convenient and useful.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:214 Ag ‘17 100w


=CHOLMONDELEY, ALICE.= Christine. *$1.35 (2c) Macmillan 17-21644

  Reviewers differ from each other as to whether these letters are fact
  or fiction. The publishers wrote the editor of the Digest on September
  13, that “We don’t know and we have no means of finding out.” The
  letters purport to be written to a mother by a young Englishwoman with
  a talent for music, who goes to Germany to study the violin, and is in
  Berlin from May to August, 1914. Christine believes all Germans to be
  “simple and kindly.” Her disillusionment begins in Frau Berg’s
  middle-class boarding-house where “she becomes a target for the
  Anglophobe remarks of the other boarders,” and is continued in the
  home of a family of the “junker-military-official military set,” where
  she goes to live later because she has become engaged to a young
  officer in the Prussian army with a leaning towards music. The point
  of view of the well-to-do country folk is given when she goes for a
  short rest to the home of a forester and his wife at Schuppenfelde.
  The artistic set is represented by her violin teacher, Kloster, who
  seems to stand “for fearlessness, for freedom, for beauty, for all the
  great things,” but is silenced when the government “chokes him with
  the Order of the Red Eagle, First class.” When war comes, Christine’s
  situation becomes impossible and she starts to join her mother in
  Switzerland, but contracts pneumonia on the way and dies in a hospital
  at Stuttgart.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:94 D ‘17

  “In style and feeling ‘Christine’ reminds one strongly of ‘Fräulein
  Schmidt and Mr Anstruther’ and other works of the Baroness von Arnim.”

       + =Ath= p526 O ‘17 160w

  “It is not often that a collection of letters intended for no eyes but
  those of a beloved mother turns out to be an amazingly accurate
  revelation of the real, hidden nature of a great people. ... To the
  earnest men and women of the time the book is a state document, to the
  eager story readers an idyll, to the lover of music a perfect
  interlude, to any reader an hour’s delight.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 2400w

  “Whether fact or fiction, they have the ring of truth and
  spontaneity.”

       + =Cath World= 106:251 N ‘17 300w

  “They tell a touching story, and give a vivid, but for artistic
  purposes, somewhat over-emphasized picture of a whole nation
  hypnotized by one man.”

     + — =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 80w

  “The doubt as to the legitimacy of the letters comes when one reads
  the initial one, which, like all first letters in epistolary novels,
  retails to the ostensible recipient all the facts the reader needs to
  know. And as one reads on, the natural development of events, the
  study of the actions and reactions of different classes of Germans to
  war and then to the war, no less than the fluency of the style, seem
  to indicate that ‘Christine’ is a clever, interesting, but fabricated,
  narrative.”

       + =Dial= 63:220 S 13 ‘17 550w

       + =Ind= 91:353 S 1 ‘17 80w

  “If the volume is indeed what it purports to be—it is a document as
  significant as any which the war has yet furnished. For, on this
  assumption, it goes far to wipe out the distinction gladly made by
  many between the attitude of the German people and that of the German
  government towards the possibility of a world war. Provided the
  letters are genuine, they leave little doubt that the great middle
  class in Germany ardently desired, even before the Sarajevo tragedy, a
  testing of German arms, and especially with England. If this is not a
  true history (and we prefer to believe that it is), then we can only
  deplore the wretched taste of an author who just at this time would
  dare to confirm our worst suspicions of Germany by an elaborate
  fiction parading as a document before the fact.”

         =Nation= 105:202 Ag 23 ‘17 1000w

  “Were ‘Christine’ genuine, it would be impressive. Were ‘Christine’ a
  ‘human document,’ it would confirm many sickening doubts and fears, it
  would fortify the indictment of a whole people. But whether those
  doubts and fears are to be sustained or not, ‘Christine’ will not
  confirm them or even support them because it is a book obviously
  composed by a skilful writer of fiction, feeding the appetite for
  hatred, supplying in detail and with subtle art the ‘confirmation’
  which it is natural at this date for groveling natures to relish.” F.
  H.

       — =New Repub= 12:277 O 6 ‘17 1500w

  “A book which is true in essentials though it wears the garb of
  fiction—so real is it that one is tempted to doubt whether it is
  fiction at all. ... It would be difficult to find a book in which the
  state of mind of the German people just before and at the very
  beginning of the war was pictured so clearly, with so much
  understanding and convincing detail, as it is in this one. The letters
  are admirably written, revealing an absolutely charming personality.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:285 Ag 5 ‘17 1200w

  “Doubtless it is based on ‘genuine’ letters. But we can’t help
  believing that in editing these letters ‘Alice Cholmondeley’s’
  knowledge of the needs of fiction was drawn on repeatedly. And we
  can’t see that the book—even as a ‘document’—has suffered in
  consequence. The fact part has not been injured by the fiction.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:358 S 23 ‘17 930w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:748 N ‘17 40w

       + =Pratt= p50 O ‘17 20w

  “It is also odd to find a girl in real life so extraordinarily like
  one in Mrs Ward’s novels.”

     – + =Sat R= 124:509 D 22 ‘17 560w

       + =Spec= 119:389 O 13 ‘17 250w

  “The chief value of the letters—assuming the correctness of the
  author’s observations—is the vivid presentation of the German
  viewpoint and the analysis of the bumptious, modern-minded, all
  sufficient, yet fear-haunted Germany that plunged the world into a
  needless war.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 700w

  “In one sense, however, it does not matter whether the setting is real
  or only made up. The matter, in either case, is full of truth. The
  letters, whether written by an English girl in Berlin before the war,
  or by a clever story-teller in England during the war, were written by
  someone who knew Germany and the Germans.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p450 S 20 ‘17 750w


=CHRISTIAN, W. E.= Rhymes of the rookies. *$1 Dodd 811 17-25969

  The “sunny side of soldier service” is dedicated to Theodore
  Roosevelt. The rhymes have been called the barrack-room ballads of the
  American soldier, touching, as they do, upon the little monotonies of
  life in camp. Aside from the short poems there is a glossary of
  American and English army slang, words to the army trumpet calls and a
  few hints for first aid.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:85 D ‘17


=CHURCH, ALEXANDER HAMILTON.= Manufacturing costs and accounts. diags
*$5 McGraw 657 17-3317

  “It is the purpose of this book to present the subject of costing in
  such a way as to bring together the points of view of cost men and of
  general accountants. ... The book is divided into three parts, the
  first of which gives a general outline of manufacturing accounts. ...
  Part 2 opens with a general diagram that, with proper study, makes
  clear the relationship of the cost records to the main books of
  account and explains means for unifying the general accounts and the
  cost system into a consistent whole. The separate features of
  manufacturing accounts, as outlined in part 1, are then taken up in
  greater detail. ... Cost system reports and returns for the foreman,
  superintendent and general executive are suggested and described in
  part 3. The four chapters making up this part are revised from a
  series of articles published in the American Machinist in September,
  1915.”—Engin News-Rec

  “Some question may be raised as to the wisdom of attempting to teach
  or explain the theory of double entry bookkeeping in the small amount
  of space allotted to this subject by the author in part one. The book
  is a notable addition to a library on cost accounting, and to the
  student who is well grounded in the basic principles of accounting it
  will prove of considerable value in treating of cost accounts.” A. T.
  Cameron

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 74:294 N ‘17 390w

         =Cleveland= p96 Jl ‘17 20w

  “It is sufficiently elementary in treatment to be recommended as a
  general textbook on accounting and cost keeping for the use of
  engineers needing instruction in those subjects.” R. R. Potter

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:150 Ap 19 ‘17 450w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:58 Ap ‘17

  “Mature minds ... will find in it suggestion, explanation, and
  direction obtainable so far as the reviewer knows, nowhere else.” C:
  B. Going

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:447 My ‘17 80w (Reprinted from Journal of the
         American Society of Mechanical Engineers p369 Ap ‘17)

         =Pratt= p24 Jl ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:113 Ap ‘17


=CHURCHILL, MRS MATILDA (FAULKNER).= Letters from my home in India; ed.
and arranged by Grace M. Rogers. il *$1.35 (2½c) Doran 16-22790

  The author has spent a lifetime in India. She went to that country as
  a missionary in 1873 immediately after her marriage. The letters cover
  the period from that time to the present. In the last letter, written
  from Nova Scotia, the author’s native home, she expresses her deep joy
  at the prospect of returning to her labors in the mission field.

  “The appeal of sincerity is universal. Hence, however divergent, anent
  foreign missions, may be the views of the readers of Mrs Churchill’s
  letters, they will be unanimous in respect to the writer’s unselfish
  and heroic service.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 18 ‘16 250w

       + =Dial= 61:542 D 14 ‘16 120w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:14 Ja ‘17


=CHURCHILL, WINSTON.= Dwelling-place of light. il *$1.60 (1c) Macmillan
17-25746

  Mr Churchill’s latest novel deals with, but makes no attempt to solve,
  the industrial problem. “The Massachusetts mill city of Hampton ...
  appears to be Holyoke to a hair, until an industrial crisis involving
  the I.W.W. and a dynamite plot on the part of the manufacturers
  convinces us that we are in Lawrence, with its neighboring Andover.”
  (Nation) The central figure in the story is Janet Bumpus, whose
  father, “a racial failure who worships the Bumpus genealogy,” is
  gate-keeper in the Chippering mill. Janet becomes stenographer and
  confidential secretary to Claude Ditmar, the manager of the mill, but
  later joins his enemies, the I.W.W. workers who are handling the
  strike. Janet’s personal relations with Ditmar, with Rolfe, the I.W.W.
  leader, and with Brooks Insall, the humanitarian author, are recounted
  with much detail. Lise, Janet’s sister, who has the temperament of a
  courtesan, and is “all for easy street,” forms a strong contrast to
  Janet.

  “Though we did not close the book satisfied that we had learnt how and
  where the mind might be sure of being environed by wisdom, we felt
  that some of the ways and means of approach had been indicated.”

     + — =Ath= p679 D ‘17 90w

  “Somewhat oddly, perhaps, our author is a good deal more chary of
  laying down the law about industrialism than he was about religion. It
  almost seems indeed that, three-quarters through his narrative, he
  gradually withdraws from the problem he has so thoroughly stated, and
  takes refuge in the personal human story of the girl Janet.” H. W.
  Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 46:339 N ‘17 360w

  “With ‘The dwelling-place of light’ Mr Churchill begins what appears
  to be his third epoch as a novelist. It contains something of each of
  his earlier manners, but it also involves an archaic tale of
  unrequited love such as hitherto he has never attempted to tell. He
  combines this with an ultra-modern portrayal of the sordid conditions
  of life among the poor, and a tedious account of a strike whose
  details are very obviously drawn from the activities of a notorious
  labor organization in a New England manufacturing city a few years
  ago. ... Doubtless the novelist has written it in a mood of conviction
  and sincerity, but it does not convey that impression.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 10 ‘17 1450w

  “Frankly, we believe that this novel merits severe condemnation. Any
  man who, at this stage of our national life, with a war on our hands
  and many internal dangers and problems to cope with, will publish such
  a defence of the propaganda of syndicalism and mob-rule, deserves a
  reprimand.”

       — =Cath World= 106:694 F ‘18 330w

  “He is apparently trying to show Theodore Dreiser the high honor of
  imitation. He has not Dreiser’s savage equipment, and lacks the
  ponderous sledge-hammer stroke that makes its effect by heavy
  iteration of details. He lacks, too, the evident sincerity of Dreiser,
  who, however unpleasant he may be, is always unmistakably in earnest.
  Mr Churchill is a sheep in wolf’s clothing, and the costume suits him
  not at all.”

       — =Ind= 92:385 N 24 ‘17 280w

  “To the reader of Mr Churchill’s new novel, bewildered and curious at
  such long-continued philosophizing and analyzing of apparently
  ordinary characters, will suddenly come a conviction that, under an
  apparent sameness, there is something entirely new, something
  intensely vital.”

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 29 ‘17 480w

  “Mr Churchill has rendered with extraordinary breadth and sympathy the
  New England manufacturing city, with its enterprise and its squalor,
  its huge industrial ‘plants’ driving always remorselessly for
  increased dividends, its polyglot hordes kept within bounds, for the
  most part, by the slender but steely filaments of necessity. Claude
  Ditmar, manager of the Chippering mill, is a striking portrait of the
  successful American. ... One closes the record with the impression
  that, as Mr Churchill has solved Janet’s knot by cutting it, he is
  fain to dispose of the industrial problem by retiring from it, as
  Janet has done, to some kindlier, mellower atmosphere.”

         =Nation= 105:403 O 11 ‘17 650w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

     + — =Nation= 105:600 N 29 ‘17 200w

  “Mr Churchill will never escape from gentility. He has achieved his
  position as its favorite interpreter. But the vitality shown in the
  ‘Dwelling-place of light’ proves how persistent is his faith in its
  tenets. He can make a place for the I.W.W. in his tradition rather
  than give up an American mill or an American girl.” F. H.

     + — =New Repub= 12:306 O 13 ‘17 1750w

  “The picturing part of the book is an excellent performance, but the
  preachment of the after effects of freedom in love, and against
  socialistic and syndicalistic ideas, smacks of that mid-McKinleyan
  conservatism and prudery out of whose somber shadows America has
  stepped, for once and for all.” Clement Wood

     + — =N Y Call= p18 D 15 ‘17 800w

  “He has never hitherto depicted a woman character with quite so much
  insight, skill, and surety as he portrays Janet Bumpus. ... It is a
  pleasure to bear witness to the finer, truer taste with which Mr
  Churchill now writes. Scarcely anywhere in the book does one find any
  of those occasional lapses which offended so much in his earlier work.
  But this does not hold true of the ending of the story. Not since the
  deathbed of Little Eva has there been anything more banal than the
  last pages of this novel.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:393 O 14 ‘17 1250w

  “Mr Churchill is not afraid to present life as it is, and that with
  unsparing frankness, but also with a spirit of idealism and desire for
  future national and social advance.”

       + =Outlook= 117:386 N 7 ‘17 170w

  “One feels that the straight and logical working out of the plot has
  been distorted in order to furnish the author with vehicle for some of
  his own social theories. This, however, does not rob the final tragedy
  of its poignancy, nor detract from the merit of the masterly analysis
  of a certain type of feminine temperament embodied in Janet.” F: T.
  Cooper

     + — =Pub W= 92:1371 O 20 ‘17 1050w

  “Mr Winston Churchill has been moved to picture the rapidly changing
  conditions of American social and industrial life in a story of great
  earnestness and power.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:556 N ‘17 400w

  “It is with thanksgiving that the serious English reader hails the
  work of those American authors—a select few—whose mental standpoint
  differs little from his own. Of these writers, sprung from the old
  American stock, our near relations, Mr Winston Churchill is perhaps
  the nearest to us. His point of view is indistinguishable from that of
  a well-educated and large-minded Englishman, and his language is, with
  a few comprehensible variants, our own. In the course of the story we
  get a wonderfully clear impression of the heterogeneous mob of workers
  in an American manufacturing town; and of the dismay with which the
  old American regards these hordes of foreigners.”

       + =Sat R= 124:374 N 10 ‘17 580w

  “In his plot Mr Churchill is less successful than usual. He has
  evidently taken great pains with Janet’s complex personality; but
  though every woman, and every man too, may be a bundle of
  inconsistencies, a heroine, to be credible and sympathetic, must have
  a more definite character than she seems to possess.”

     + — =Spec= 119:497 N 3 ‘17 560w

  “Recently we had the melancholy spectacle of the gifted Mr Galsworthy
  floundering in the miasma of sex, and now comes Winston Churchill with
  a story which treads dangerously near the distressing phases of the
  same theme. There is doubt whether Mr Churchill is marking time, or
  entering a new epoch in his literary life. For his own well-being, it
  is to be hoped that the former is the case, for, notwithstanding
  abundant evidences of his graceful narrative style and ability at
  vivid portraiture of character, the story adds little, if anything to
  his achievements.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 21 ‘17 900w

  “It is a long book and closely thought out; but it is always
  interesting to read, because Mr Winston Churchill writes with a
  discernment which is based on knowledge.”

       + =The Times [London]= Lit Sup p540 N 8 ‘17 570w


=CLADEL, JUDITH=, comp. Rodin: the man and his art; with leaves from his
notebook; tr. by S. K. Star; with introd. by J. Huneker. il *$5 Century
17-29347

  “Mr Huneker opens the book with an introduction in which he says
  practically all that need be said of Rodin. He tells us in a few
  paragraphs what is significant in his career; that he mastered the
  technique of his art by the sweat of his brow, working for other
  sculptors as an anonym, that he worked for the Sevres porcelain works,
  [etc]. ... In the biographical chapters the events of Rodin’s life are
  elaborated and a reasonable perspective is kept, bringing into relief
  the important moments [of his career]. ... The pages devoted to
  Rodin’s own notes cover a wide field of comment. Throughout he raises
  a hymn to work. ... Besides these comments, written from the intense
  interest of the artist in the reasons and sources of what he observes,
  there are other notes that are casual or lyric as the spirit prompts.”
  (N Y Times) “The text is illustrated by about forty beautiful
  photographs of Rodin’s work.” (A L A Bkl)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:83 D ‘17

  Reviewed by Kenyon Cox

 *       =Nation= 105:574 N 22 ‘17 2200w

  “Much of the text is touched by the generous but blighting spirit of
  special pleading and resentment against criticism of Rodin, but
  biographical information is given of the kind that alone is important
  in the case of an artist; and the quotations from the note-books have
  the great value of original and direct expressions upon a subject
  thoroughly known and deeply felt.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:557 D 16 ‘17 1600w


=CLAPHAM, CHARLES BLANCHARD.= Arithmetic for engineers. (Directly-useful
technical ser.) il *$3 Dutton 620.8 17-14150

  “This is a comprehensive, practical treatment of the most elementary
  arts of mathematics, including simple algebra, mensuration,
  logarithms, graphs and the slide rule. It is written for students of
  most limited training; in fact, in the endeavor to make all points
  perfectly clear to this class of readers the explanations and
  practical examples are given with most comprehensive care.”—Engin Rec

         =Engin N= 77:436 Mr 15 ‘17 100w

  “The most important feature of the text is the use of at least one
  practical example to illustrate every principle or procedure
  described. This results in a fully illustrated volume, filled with
  stimulating exercises using engineering subjects, presented in a
  satisfactory form typographically. It should be emphasized, however,
  that the text is written for elementary students and is in no sense a
  handbook for reference.”

       + =Engin Rec= 75:475 Mr 24 ‘17 130w

  “The clear detail of the work should commend it wherever a text or
  home study is desired.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:447 My ‘17 60w (Reprinted from Scientific
         American p364 Ap 7 ‘17)

  “Author is lecturer in engineering and elementary mathematics,
  University of London.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ap ‘17 50w


=CLARK, ALEXANDER GRAHAM.= Text book on motor car engineering. 2v v 2 il
*$3 Van Nostrand 629.2

  =v 2= Design.

  Volume 1 dealing with Construction was published in 1912. The subject
  matter of the present volume is based on the author’s lectures to
  students in the Polytechnic, London, and it is intended “for the use
  of engineers, designers, draughtsmen, students and others whose work
  entails a knowledge of design.” The illustrations number over sixty
  and there are also numerous tables.

  “We cannot praise too highly the clearness of diction and simplicity
  of expression which prevail throughout the work. Were it not for the
  illustrations, we should have been at some trouble to find any cause
  for criticism of the work at all. ... A little more discrimination in
  regard to the scale of the drawings as reproduced, and the preparation
  of an entirely new set of half-tones from original photographs, would
  have enhanced the value of the book to a degree which would be out of
  all proportion to the additional expenditure involved.”

     + — =Nature= 100:102 O 11 ‘17 1200w


=CLARK, BARRETT HARPER.= How to produce amateur plays. *$1.50 Little 792
17-15178

  “A practical handbook whose aim is to demonstrate how dramatic
  pieces can be produced in an inexpensive, artistic and effective
  manner. Discussions of the choice of play and cast are followed by
  three chapters on rehearsing, with detailed consideration of the
  stage, lighting, scenery and costumes. Selective lists of amateur
  plays are added. The appendices include a statement on the workings
  of copyright and royalty and a note on make-up embodied in an
  article by Miss Grace Griswold. Mr Clark is qualified to discuss his
  subject and does so in a lucid manner that makes his instructions
  clear and comprehensible.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Covers much the same ground as Taylor but is more direct in method,
  has a chapter on lighting, and is illustrated both with diagrams and
  photographs.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:12 O ‘17

  “Such a handbook as Mr Clark’s has often been called for. Its teaching
  is practical and its doctrine admirable.” Algernon Tassin

       + =Bookm= 46:347 N ‘17 80w

       + =Cleveland= p105 S ‘17 50w

       + =Ind= 91:77 Jl 14 ‘17 40w

       + =R of Rs= 56:444 O ‘17 100w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 2 ‘17 120w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:218 Jl ‘17 30w


=CLARK, BARRETT HARPER=, ed. Masterpieces of modern Spanish drama; tr.
from the Spanish and Catalan. *$2 Duffield 862 17-8763

  The three plays presented in this book are “The great Galeoto,” by
  José Echegaray; “The duchess of San Quentin,” by Benito Pérez-Galdós;
  and “Daniela,” by Angel Guimerá. The first and third have appeared in
  English in earlier translations, the third under the title “La
  pecadora.” A biographical sketch of the author precedes each play. In
  his preface Mr Clark says, “As may be seen after a cursory reading of
  the three plays contained in this collection, the Spanish drama of
  to-day cannot easily be summed up in a few words; the attempt here
  made is largely with a view to showing something of the genius of a
  nation whose dramatic products have as yet scarcely begun to receive
  the attention they so well deserve.”

  “Good translations.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:120 Ja ‘18

  “Echegaray’s ‘The great Galeoto’ is already known through previous
  translations and public readings; ‘The duchess of San Quentin,’ by
  Galdós, seems a little facile, theatrical, and old-fashioned. ...
  Guimerá’s ‘Daniela’ alone, translated from the Catalan by John Garrett
  Underhill, comes to us with all the force of a new sensation, and this
  by virtue of the profound and tragic poetry of its theme. ... It is of
  the great order.”

     + — =Dial= 62:530 Je 14 ‘17 250w

       + =Ind= 91:135 Jl 28 ‘17 50w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:74 My ‘17 30w

  “The splendid technique shown in the structure and dialogue of these
  Spanish dramas is an answer to the slovenly and ill-fitting
  constructors of plays in other countries. One learns that correctness
  and certainty of emphasis are not altogether lost arts in the theatre,
  and one wishes good fortune to the influence of these Spanish
  playwrights.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:300 Ag 12 ‘17 250w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:747 N ‘17 50w

  “Should have a hearty welcome from the public. ... By some slight
  oversight, Mr Barrett Clark, who has edited the plays and written a
  most agreeable introduction, states that only ‘The great Galeoto’ has
  been previously given an English translation. An excellent version of
  ‘Daniela,’ rather freely translated by Wallace Gillpatrick, was
  included among the publications of the Hispanic society (Putnam) in
  1916.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:662 Je ‘17 140w

         =Springf’d Republican= p10 Ap 5 ‘17 110w


=CLARK, CHARLES EDGAR.= My fifty years in the navy. il *$2.50 (3½c)
Little 17-28674

  Rear-Admiral Clark was born in Vermont in 1843, graduated from the
  United States naval academy at Annapolis in 1863, and was retired from
  the navy in 1905. In this book, he tells the story of his public life
  up to the time of his retirement. During the Civil war, he served on
  board the “Ossipee” in the West Gulf blockading squadron for nearly
  two years, taking an active part in the battle of Mobile bay. In the
  Spanish-American war, he commanded the “Oregon” on her memorable trip
  around the Horn to play her part in the battle of Santiago, July 3,
  1898. Some thirty pages of chapter twelve are devoted to a log of the
  “Oregon” as written by an unlettered sailor, who was one of her crew.
  The addenda include diagrams showing the positions of the American and
  Spanish ships at the battle of Santiago. There are three portraits of
  Rear-Admiral Clark and a number of other illustrations.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:93 D ‘17

  “The author is a prince of raconteurs. The style is simple and direct.
  The book is well made up; the illustrations few, but good; its index
  fairly complete. It should be read by all who seek to comprehend the
  spirit of our navy during the transition from sail to steam.”

       + =Nation= 105:693 D 20 ‘17 800w

  “A straightforward narrative of interest to all who love the American
  navy.”

       + =Outlook= 117:350 O 31 ‘17 30w

  Reviewed by F: T. Cooper

       + =Pub W= 92:2027 D 8 ‘17 330w


=CLARK, FRANCIS EDWARD.=[2] In the footsteps of St Paul. il *2 (2c)
Putnam 915.69

  An account of the life and labors of St Paul in the light of a
  personal journey to the cities visited by him. The author has gone
  over and identified the Apostle’s routes of travel thru Tarsus,
  Jerusalem, Damascus, Antioch, Iconium, Ephesus, Salonica, Athens,
  Corinth, and a score of other cities. In reconstructing, as far as
  possible, the physical background and the scenery of St Paul’s labors,
  the writer makes his activities more real and vivid. The book seeks
  its audience among Bible students, Sunday school teachers—all who
  study the Bible for public or private use.

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 D 19 ‘17 710w

  “This book is a boon to many unlikely to have heard of such a
  masterpiece as Sir William Ramsay’s ‘Paul the traveller and Roman
  citizen.’”

       + =Outlook= 118:67 Ja 9 ‘18 110w


=CLARK, JOHN SCOTT.= Study of English and American writers, v 3 $2 Row,
Peterson & co. 820 16-16560

  =v 3= The books that have preceded this are “A study of English prose
  writers” and “A study of English and American poets.” In these three
  volumes the author has developed a “laboratory method” for use in
  teaching English literature. The preface to this volume says, “The
  method consists in determining the particular and distinctive features
  of the writer’s style (using the term style in its widest sense), in
  sustaining this analysis by a consensus of critical opinion, in
  illustrating the particular characteristics of each writer by
  carefully selected extracts from his works, and in then requiring the
  pupil to find, in the works of the writer, parallel illustrations.”
  About sixty-five authors are included. Professor Clark died before the
  book was ready for publication and his work has been completed by John
  Price Odell, professor of English in Occidental college, Los Angeles,
  California.

  “Teachers who have not become familiar with the methods of these
  volumes have missed valuable training.” G: Sherburn

       + =School R= 25:63 Ja ‘17 580w


=CLARK, JOHN SPENCER.= Life and letters of John Fiske. 2v il *$7.50
Houghton 17-27754

  “This is the long-awaited official life of the most eminent and the
  most interesting of later American historians, the work of one of John
  Fiske’s lifelong friends, who was associated with him in his
  philosophical studies, and as a member of the publishing house of
  James R. Osgood & Co. Mr Fiske’s career was a crowded one, and Mr
  Clark was in touch with it at every point. He tells the story of the
  famous historian’s New England boyhood, his early literary struggles,
  his close association with the famous Darwin-Huxley-Spencer group, his
  life as a lecturer on American history, his friendships, and his
  contributions to philosophy and literature.”—Lit D

  “Mr Clark’s two-volume life shows just why such rich quality of
  thought and variety of knowledge filled to overflowing all that John
  Fiske wrote and why he was able to present his great stores to his
  readers with never failing clarity, simplicity, and impressiveness.”
  F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 46:327 N ‘17 450w

  “The story of John Fiske’s life is told by Mr Clark by means of
  numerous letters with connecting links of a narrative which is
  frequently verbosely labored and repetitious. It succeeds in giving,
  however, a faithful account of a notable career and remarkable
  intellectual achievements, although little revelation is made of the
  personality of the man.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p2 D 15 ‘17 1350w

  “No book of more general interest to a thoughtful reader is likely to
  appear in a long time; certainly no book presenting a more engaging
  personality.”

       + =Lit D= 55:39 D 8 ‘17 130w

  “These two imposing volumes and their subject are mutually worthy of
  each other. If one is tempted to criticize the amount of space given
  to the childhood and youth of young Fiske, he soon learns that the
  subject is worthy of it.”

       + =Lit D= 56:30 Ja 26 ‘18 980w

  “A wealth of personal letters and memoranda has been skilfully
  utilized, and reveals in attractive light the scope of Fiske’s
  intellectual activities and the warmth of his friendships. Rarely has
  the home life of a man of letters shown itself possessed of greater
  simplicity or sincerity than these pages display. In all these
  respects the work is an addition of permanent value to American
  biography. As a piece of constructive criticism, on the other hand, Mr
  Clark’s work is somewhat less satisfactory.”

 *   + – =Nation= 106:91 Ja 24 ‘18 2100w

  “His letters to his family [from England], from which Mr Clark makes
  liberal quotation, afford some of the most graphic and interesting
  portraitures of the famous people of that day we have had from any
  source. ... But, interesting as these portraits are, they should not
  obscure the story of Fiske’s remarkable career, which Mr Clark has
  told with full detail and with a richness of background and vividness
  of color that make it one of the notable books of the year and one of
  the most notable of American biographies.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:569 D 23 ‘17 2250w

  “Mr Clark has produced a faithful, comprehensive account of John
  Fiske’s life. The reader would gladly spare one or two of the author’s
  mannerisms. But the book, as a whole, is concrete and readable, and
  there is no emphasis on questions of philosophy beyond the point to
  which the average reader will care to go.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p11 Ja 27 ‘18 2300w


=CLARK, KEITH.= Spell of Scotland. il *$2.50 Page 914.1 16-23814

  “This is one of the interesting ‘Spell’ series. Like its predecessors,
  it unites description with reminiscences of travel and appreciation of
  famous sights, antiquities, and landscape beauties of the country it
  treats.” (Outlook) “The chief attractions of Scotland are agreeably
  brought to our attention in the eleven chapters of the book, even the
  Hebrides, but apparently not the Orkney or the Shetland Islands, being
  included in the author’s tour of the kingdom.” (Dial)

  “It is well illustrated, has a good map, and has a four-page
  bibliography. More expensive than Griffis but in the same ‘popular’
  travel-book style.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:263 Mr ‘17

  “Though Miss Clark succeeded admirably in ‘The spell of Spain,’ she
  could hardly have hoped to achieve there what she has in her second
  book. For she is Scotch of the Scotch herself, and here every page of
  her writing breathes an instinctive and inherent sympathy and
  understanding. To ‘see’ Scotland through such eyes is indeed to feel
  its spell. To the Catholic reader Miss Clark’s book cannot fail to
  recommend itself with a very special appeal.”

       + =Cath World= 105:828 S ‘17 380w

  “Literary allusion and quotation, with a sufficiency of history for
  popular liking, enrich the descriptions, which are made more vivid
  still by frequent illustrations from photographs and other sources and
  eight colored plates of much beauty.”

       + =Dial= 62:150 F 22 ‘17 230w

       + =Outlook= 115:118 Ja 17 ‘17 40w


=CLARK, VICTOR SELDEN.= History of manufactures in the United States,
1607-1860; with an introd. note by H: W. Farnam. il pa $6 Carnegie inst.
330.9 16-15333

  “This is the second of the contributions to American economic history
  which have been written under the auspices of the Carnegie institution
  of Washington. ... Of the twenty chapters in the present volume that
  deal with the history of manufactures, nine cover the colonial period,
  eleven the period between 1790 and 1860. Dr Clark first describes the
  colonial environment, British policy, and colonial legislation
  affecting manufactures. ... The spread of the factory system Dr Clark
  attributes quite as much to the growth of markets in the South as to
  the invention of new processes and machines. The effects of tariff
  legislation, of the development of better transportation agencies, and
  of a more plentiful supply of capital and labor are treated in
  successive chapters, as are the technical progress, the organization,
  and the general distribution of manufactures. Some valuable appendices
  conclude the volume. ... A second volume, covering the period from
  1860 to date, is promised.”—Ann Am Acad

  “To say that Mr Clark’s book is the best in its field would be faint
  praise, for there is only one other that covers the field, and that
  was written nearly sixty years ago. ... Mr Clark’s book is singularly
  free from bias or prejudice. ... The quantity of facts assembled in
  this framework is very great, for the writer’s researches have been
  wide and laborious. But they are not always interpreted, and sometimes
  several pages of specific facts are given that have little apparent
  significance. ... It is far from being the ‘final word’ on this
  subject, but it is the most considerable contribution to it that has
  ever been made.” T: W. Page

 *     + =Am Econ R= 7:300 Je ‘17 1350w

  “The volume under review may safely be proclaimed one of the most
  important and valuable contributions to the economic history of the
  United States which has appeared in recent years. ... The value of the
  work is in no small degree to be attributed to the broad
  interpretation and the method of treatment adopted by the author. ...
  In the main the conclusions of the author, backed up as they are by
  scholarly method and a broader basis of fact than has heretofore been
  available, will, it is believed, be accepted. Concerning a few of the
  more general statements the reviewer, however, would be inclined to
  raise a question. ... The index is adequate and the bibliography
  comprehensive.” C. W. Wright

       + =Am Hist R= 22:384 Ja ‘17 1000w

  “One is inevitably led to compare this work with that of Bishop, which
  covers practically the same ground and for so long has been the single
  authority covering the whole field. Dr Clark’s book is more analytical
  and endeavors to explain the movements and forces of each period, and
  not merely to chronicle facts. It moreover takes up phases of the
  subject not touched upon by Bishop, such as organization. All in all
  it constitutes an admirable economic history of manufactures.” E. L.
  Bogart

       + =Ann Am Acad= 70:323 Mr ‘17 350w

  “The chief contribution of the work is in details rather than in
  principles. ... Not all of the generalizations are substantiated. ...
  The allotment of space and the distribution of emphasis are open to
  serious criticism. ... The history of the development of industrial
  organization is inadequate. ... The section on the factory system (pp.
  448-55) is incomplete. ... Since the book was apparently written to
  trace the volume of growth rather than to analyze the causes for the
  development of new forms of industrial organization, one ends a
  critical reading of the volume with a feeling of uncertainty as to how
  much valuable evidence on the latter subject may have been
  overlooked.” M. T. Copeland

         =J Pol Econ= 25:633 Je ‘17 530w


=CLARKE, GEORGE HERBERT=, ed. Treasury of war poetry, 1914-1917. *$1.25
Houghton 821.08 17-25441

  The publishers state that this collection of about 130 British and
  American poems of the world war “contains important poems by important
  authors which have not been accessible to other anthologies.” They are
  arranged under the headings: America; England and America; England;
  France; Belgium; Russia and America; Italy; Australia; Canada; Liège;
  Verdun; Oxford; Reflections; Incidents and aspects; Poets militant;
  Auxiliaries; Keeping the seas; The wounded; The fallen; Women and the
  war. The editor’s policy “has been humanly hospitable, rather than
  academically critical, especially in the case of some of the verses
  written by soldiers at the front.” (Introd.) There are indexes of
  first lines, of titles and of authors; Occasional notes, giving brief
  biographies of some of the poets; and an introduction by the editor.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:120 Ja ‘18

  “On the whole Professor Clarke has been remarkably successful in
  sifting the grain from the chaff.”

       + =Ind= 92:262 N 3 ‘17 70w

  “Many of the poems have been inaccessible to other anthologists, and
  Professor Clarke has provided illuminating notes to the whole
  collection.”

       + =Lit D= 55:39 D 8 ‘17 110w

  “Practically all of the best and finest things the war has inspired
  are included in the collection, and that means at least a little of
  the finest verse that has been written in English for some years. The
  indexes are so well contrived that they deserve a word of praise.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:12 Ja 13 ‘18 420w

  “While there may be individual differences of opinion regarding the
  inclusion or omission of particular poems, no one will find fault with
  Prof. Clarke’s general principle of selection.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 18 ‘17 360w


=CLAY, OLIVER.= Heroes of the American revolution. il *$1.25 (2c)
Duffield 973.3 16-25270

  The title of this book is somewhat misleading. It suggests a book of
  biographies. What the author has written is a series of chapters
  bearing on the Revolution and devoted to groups and localities rather
  than to individuals. Contents: The men of Massachusetts; The royal
  province of Virginia; The part New York played; The rally of the
  patriots; The writer of our Declaration of independence; The birth of
  the American army; Our foreign allies; The shadows of the Revolution;
  Daughters of liberty; Our revolutionary navy; From Lexington to
  Yorktown; Our commander-in-chief.

  “Would appear to be fitted for use in secondary school
  instruction. ... It is a good book to put into the hands of American
  boys, whether in or out of school.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 7 ‘17 100w

       + =Ind= 91:228 Ag 11 ‘17 40w

  “The author’s method undoubtedly has its advantages in focusing the
  reader’s attention on the movements of men in the mass rather than on
  the development of sporadic careers.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:216 F ‘17 70w

  “While primarily intended for young persons, grown-ups will also find
  much of interest in ‘Heroes of the American revolution.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 18 ‘17 130w


=CLEGHORN, SARAH NORCLIFFE.= Portraits and protests. *$1.25 Holt 811
17-23579

  The poems in this volume are arranged under the four headings:
  Portraits; Of country places and the simple heart; Of time and
  immortality; Protests.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:86 D ‘17

  “She belongs as thoroughly to New England as does Robert Frost
  himself, but she sees New England in softer, more gentle garb than he
  sees it. ... Though people do not move her to the biting word and we
  feel in her portraits a charity of outlook, it would be doing faint
  justice to Miss Cleghorn not to note the way in which her lines can
  flay, when she is roused by injustice or cruelty.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 22 ‘17 900w

  “While the verses have all a distinct, personal accent, they fail
  adequately to convey emotion. This is partly due to the fact that the
  author clings to lilting measures, intelligible for ‘Margerita singing
  ballads,’ but not for ‘Jane Addams,’ that she uses inversion
  frequently, permits her metrical feet to stumble, and has a rather
  tiresome fondness for flounces and roundabouts. The lack of intensity
  is perhaps also due to Miss Cleghorn’s austere passion for New
  England.”

     – + =Dial= 63:525 N 22 ‘17 260w

  “Many of her poems of protest, such as ‘Comrade Jesus,’ have been
  reprinted in all radical periodicals and anthologies. Others, such as
  ‘Peace hath her Belgiums,’ ‘The incentive’ and ‘One hundred thousand
  more’ deserve to be as widely known. ... In the earlier sections of
  the book there are some lovely things. ‘Come, Captain Age,’ ‘Vermont’
  and a few others stand out. But too often the verses seem too
  chiselled, too cautiously contrived, too much a product of reading
  rather than life, which either make the result unimportant, or
  incoherent.” Clement Wood

     + — =N Y Call= p15 O 21 ‘17 300w

  “The war intrudes itself only momentarily to elicit the ‘protest’
  which seems to come instinctively from the ‘intellectual’ in an era of
  patriotism.’ ... ‘The poltroon’ and ‘Comrade Jesus’ ought to receive
  the chuckles of delight and the mutterings of wrath that they were
  doubtless expected to call forth. ... ‘Portraits and protests’ gives
  the impression that it ought to be an anthology combining the work of
  George Woodberry, the Masses and Franklin P. Adams.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 18 ‘17 250w


=CLEMENS, SAMUEL LANGHORNE (MARK TWAIN, pseud.).= Mark Twain’s letters;
ed. by Albert Bigelow Paine. 2v *$4 (1½c) Harper 17-30756

  Uniform in binding and in number of volumes with Paine’s biography of
  Mark Twain. A brief sketch of Mr Clemens’s life prefaces the first
  volume, while thruout both volumes is editorial comment which
  amplifies references in the letters and keeps the chronology clear.
  The letters reveal the great American humorist at his best, and as the
  personalities of the recipients of his letters are so different and
  the observations and interests of the writer so varied the reader
  enjoys a wide range of reactions. The first letters were written from
  New York and Philadelphia in 1853 when Mr Clemens left his home in
  Hannibal, Mo., and started out to make his fortune. Among the largest
  number to any one person are the letters to W. D. Howells, which are
  intimate and lasting testimonials of the great friendship between the
  two men.

  Reviewed by Archibald Henderson

         =Bookm= 46:583 Ja ‘18 1350w

  “Few writers made their letters so thoroughly a part of themselves as
  did Mark Twain. They are as characteristic an expression of his
  individuality, of his manner, of his habit of thought and tricks of
  speech, as are the pages he wrote for the immediate eye of the public.
  His letters are an unending pleasure.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 14 ‘17 2100w

  “It goes without saying that he portrays himself in this work in every
  mood, and he had them all. One of the most significant features of the
  collection is the light it throws on the creation of his books.”

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 8 ‘17 140w

  “The work, as done by Mr Paine, is not only a contribution to Mark
  Twain literature, but it is, likewise, a notable example of the way in
  which letters should be compiled so as to reflect the true character
  of the person who wrote them.”

       + =Lit D= 55:42 D 29 ‘17 2050w

       + =Nation= 106:115 Ja 31 ‘18 2100w

  “[Mr Paine’s] running commentary [is] always modest, always
  unobtrusive, and always confined to the strictly necessary
  explanations. In other words, he has let Mark Twain, the letter
  writer, speak for himself. It is difficult to see how this work could
  have been done more discreetly or more tactfully. These letters are
  never composed with any thought of publication; they are never
  labored; they are always easy; they are sometimes even free and easy.
  They are the spontaneous expression of the man himself as he happened
  to be at the moment of taking pen in hand. They are highly individual;
  they abound in whim, in humorous exaggeration, in imagination, and in
  energy. They are delightful reading, in themselves in the first place,
  and in the second as revelations of the character and the
  characteristics of Mr Samuel L. Clemens, who was in some ways a
  different person from Mr Mark Twain known to all the world.”

     + + =N Y Times= 22:473 N 18 ‘17 2300w

  “The letters are well edited, with such historical comment as is
  needed to make them understandable and no more.”

       + =Outlook= 118:31 Ja 2 ‘18 190w

  “His is one of the few figures that the whole nation has learned to
  love, and one that has become an enduring part of our best traditions.
  It has been only too often the unfortunate office of intimate letters
  to shatter similar illusions. So what greater tribute can be paid to
  the present ones than to say that they serve simply to enhance the
  richness, the tenderness, the whimsical tolerance of the Mark Twain we
  have learned to know in his books.” F: T. Cooper

       + =Pub W= 93:221 Ja 19 ‘18 1050w

  “This collection of his letters is a revelation of his growth as a
  writer and of the main-springs of his conduct.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:99 Ja ‘18 170w

  “Albert Bigelow Paine is the editor of these volumes and a most loving
  interpreter of Mark Twain he proves to be. He is a little sweeping in
  his judgments, but he supplies adequately the information which
  enables the reader to understand the occasion of any letter. ... The
  feeling in the book, wherever it crops out, is as unaffected as the
  humor, and seemingly expressed with the same unconsciousness. The
  offhand nature of this writing is peculiarly American. The style is
  undress without being excessively colloquial, vigorous and
  workmanlike, and, above all, rich with meaning and savor.”

   + + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 2400w


=CLEMENS, SAMUEL LANGHORNE (MARK TWAIN, pseud.).= What is man? and other
essays. il *$1.75 Harper 814 17-13964

  A collection of miscellaneous essays and papers, some of them
  reprinted from magazines, others appearing in print for the first
  time. “What is man?” the longest piece in the volume, is Mark Twain’s
  cold and cutting analysis of the human race. It is in the form of
  colloquy between an old man and a young man, the elder arguing that
  man is a machine and nothing more. This is followed by the touching
  memorial to Jean Clemens, who died shortly before her father. Several
  of the papers are sketches from the author’s travels abroad. One is an
  appreciation of William Dean Howells. Other miscellaneous essays are:
  English as she is taught; A simplified alphabet; Concerning tobacco;
  The bee; Taming the bicycle; Is Shakespeare dead?

         =A L A Bkl= 14:120 Ja ‘18

  “Wherever in these pages he is humorous, Mark Twain is at his best;
  wherever he is serious and in a disputative mood he causes his readers
  to long for the creator of the Jumping frog, and for the traveller who
  made his historic journey through Europe in company with a party of
  merry Innocents.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 2 ‘17 500w

  “An aftermath of sixteen papers representing the intellectual byplay
  of a big restless mind. Nothing human is foreign to this ranging
  curiosity.”

       + =Nation= 105:489 N 1 ‘17 520w


=CLEMENTS, FREDERIC EDWARD.= Plant succession. pa $5 Carnegie inst.
581.1 16-17349

  “For nearly a quarter of a century the author of this large and
  attractive volume has been investigating numerous problems in the
  field of phyto-ecology and related subjects as he has found them in
  the great out-of-door laboratory of western United States. This area
  is particularly stimulating for such work since so many of the natural
  life phenomena have been preserved to the present in nearly their
  original conditions. ... The reader must understand that this work is
  not in any sense a treatise on general plant ecology. It represents a
  careful examination of the facts and principles of plant succession,
  an analysis of the development of vegetation in the past as well as
  the present, together with a digest of the methods for investigating
  successional phenomena.” (Science) Professor Clements has recently
  resigned from the faculty of the University of Minnesota to become a
  member of the staff of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. He is
  the author, with Mrs Clements, of “Rocky Mountain flowers.”

         =Cleveland= p40 Mr ‘17

  “This latest work from Clements will attract the attention of
  botanists and biologists in general throughout the world. ... The
  bibliography of nearly a thousand titles, the most of which have been
  abstracted or noted somewhere in the text, is still another valuable
  part of the book. This is probably the most nearly complete collection
  of titles on succession and related phenomena available. It may be
  said, after securing a bird’s-eye view of the book as a whole, that
  Clements’s monograph presents an invaluable summary of our knowledge
  of plant succession and that it must become at once the indispensable
  reference and guide for the student of vegetative cycles in all parts
  of the world.” R. J. Pool

       + =Science= n s 45:339 Ap 6 ‘17 1650w


=CLENNELL, WALTER JAMES.= Historical development of religion in China.
*$2 Dutton 299 (Eng ed 17-17530)

  “This book is an expansion of an address delivered on Dec. 8 and 9,
  1913, to the students of the Caermarthen Presbyterian college. The
  relation between religion and history in China, and the attitude of
  the Chinese towards religious beliefs and practices, are set before
  the reader, together with accounts of Confucianism, Taoism, Buddhism
  in China, and Lamaism, the modern transformation of China, and other
  matters of interest.”—Ath

         =A L A Bkl= 14:110 Ja ‘18

         =Ath= p94 F ‘17 70w

  “A sane and readable account of Chinese culture by a British
  consul. ... Mr Clennell succeeds in putting comprehensive statements
  in a lucid way, and any one who performs the easy task of following
  them is already equipped with some understanding of the creeds of
  China.”

       + =Nation= 105:125 Ag 2 ‘17 1000w

  “Scholarly, thoughtful, suggestive, reverent, the work before us is
  one of the very best of its kind.” I. C. Hannah

       + =Survey= 39:446 Ja 19 ‘18 200w


=CLIFTON-SHELTON, ALFRED.= On the road from Mons. map and diags. *$1.25
Dutton 940.91 (Eng ed A17-707)

  “The work in the field of the English A. S. C. (Army service corps) is
  a branch of the service little known to Americans. Captain
  Clifton-Shelton, who was with the supply train of the Nineteenth
  brigade, gives, in ‘On the road from Mons,’ an account of the peril
  and the obstacles encountered by his immediate command during the
  historic retreat from Mons and the forward movement to the line of the
  Aisne.”—Boston Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:88 D ‘17

  “Graphic, and at times humorous, account.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 14 ‘17 290w

       + =Ind= 92:342 N 17 ‘17 40w


=COAN, CLARENCE ARTHUR.= Fragrant note book; romance and legend of the
flower garden and the bye-way. il *$2.50 Putnam 716 17-14230

  Mr Coan tells us “how to know the flowers, intimately and lovingly,
  but not at all scientifically and botanically. ... Poetry, both
  original and selected, profusely sprinkles the pages. ... Delicately
  tinted decorations cover the printed text.”—Dial

  “To Mr Coan, his garden, through whose gate the Dumb Porter leads us,
  is a place of delight, of peace and ease of heart. And its freedom is
  given generously to us.”

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 1 ‘17 280w

  “In its content there is, as the author warns us, ‘of horticulture not
  a word.’ ... The appearance of the volume is handsome, and it will
  doubtless figure as a gift-book.”

       + =Cath World= 105:685 Ag ‘17 80w

  “Delightfully original.”

       + =Dial= 63:167 Ag 30 ‘17 250w

  “Precisely the sort of sentimental concoction devoted to ‘Romance and
  legend of the flower garden and the bye-way’ that is irresistibly
  alluring to a certain part of the American public.”

     – + =Nation= 105:44 Je 12 ‘17 140w


=COBB, IRVIN SHREWSBURY.= “Speaking of Prussians—” il *50c (4c) Doran
940.91 17-14799

  The author was in Europe as a war correspondent early in the war. At
  that time he was a neutral, representing a neutral nation. He now
  says, “I am not a neutral any more. I am an American! My country has
  clashed with a foreign power, and the enemy of my country is my enemy
  and deserving of no more consideration at my hands than he deserves at
  the hands of my country. Moreover, I aim to try to show, as we go
  along, that any consideration of mercy or charity or magnanimity which
  we might show him would be misinterpreted. Being what he is he would
  not understand it.” The essay is reprinted from the Saturday Evening
  Post.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:18 O ‘17

  “He is brief, uncompromising, but he is also fair-minded. He defends
  the German soldier from many charges, and thereby makes his
  arraignment of the German government and military system the more
  convincing.”

       + =Ind= 91:75 Jl 14 ‘17 40w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:680 O ‘17 60w

         =Pratt= p39 O ‘17 40w

  “He was one of five experienced newspaper men who signed a statement
  of inability to discover good evidence of German atrocities in Belgium
  at that time. For such sentiments Mr Cobb was charged with being a
  German sympathizer when he was merely an open-minded reporter. But if
  any doubt exists in anybody’s mind as to the real state of the
  author’s mind, the reading of his little book will rapidly dispose of
  it.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 17 ‘17 270w


=COBB, IRVIN SHREWSBURY.= Those times and these. *$1.35 (1½c) Doran
17-16321

  Ten of Irvin S. Cobb’s stories are collected in the volume. In several
  of them he returns to his native Kentucky and to Judge Priest. The
  first story, “‘Ex-fightin’ Billy,” is a tale of Judge Priest’s youth,
  of the time at the close of the war, when, refusing to be
  reconstructed, he had tried to become a citizen of Mexico. One of the
  later stories relates an episode of the present war. Contents:
  Ex-fightin’ Billy; And there was light; Mr Felsburg gets even; The
  garb of men; The cure for lonesomeness; The family tree; Hark! from
  the tombs; Cinnamon seed and sandy bottom; A kiss for kindness; Life
  among the abandoned farmers.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:26 O ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 320w

  “Every story is well written, and, as Judge Priest would say, ‘is as
  clean as a hound’s tooth.’”

       + =Cath World= 106:109 O ‘17 190w

         =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 40w

  “These tales belong more to the surface of things than did certain of
  the earlier ones; they are less dramatic and less gripping.
  Nevertheless, they are very well worth reading, even Mr Cobb’s worst
  being above the best of the great majority of short-story writers. And
  the volume closes with a bit of satirical foolery which is thoroughly
  joyous and amusing.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:230 Je 17 ‘17 900w

  “In many respects these stories do not measure up to those going
  before. They are reminiscent and genial as of yore, but their
  insistently reminiscent qualities give them something of a superficial
  and not infrequently, forced tone.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 500w


=COBBETT, LOUIS.= Causes of tuberculosis; together with some account of
the prevalence and distribution of the disease. (Cambridge public health
ser.) il *$6.50 Putnam 616.2 (Eng ed SG17-322)

  Dr Cobbett is lecturer in pathology at Cambridge university and an
  authority on the subject whereof he treats. Some of the many important
  problems discussed by him are: “(1) the causes of the steady decline
  of consumption, since 1863, in spite of the growth of cities and of
  industrialism; (2) the fact that most of us, without any memory or
  reminder of it, have at some time or other been infected; (3) the
  question how far this infection confers immunity against re-infection;
  (4) the fact, or strong probability, that the risk of infection
  depends on the dosage—i.e., that we can deal with small doses of the
  bacilli, but not with ‘massive’ doses.” (Spec)

  “His experience of experimental work and its pitfalls, and his
  acquaintance with the difficulties that face the practical sanitarian
  and those who are engaged in the treatment of tuberculous patients,
  enable him to bring to bear a keen critical faculty on the experience
  and experiments of other investigators, with the result that the work
  now before us may be looked upon as a ‘classic,’ and one that for
  years to come will, probably, remain the reference-book for those
  interested in tuberculosis.”

       + =Nature= 100:301 D 20 ‘17 1350w

  “Dr Cobbett’s is one of the very best books of its kind, alike in its
  wealth of knowledge, in its clear, quiet style; its orderly
  marshalling of the legions of references, and the exact drawing of
  conclusions so inevitable that they seem to come of themselves. ...
  And it is for everybody to read who has had a grounding in the
  principles of bacteriology.”

       + =Spec= 119:118 Ag 4 ‘17 1200w


=COBERN, CAMDEN MCCORMACK.= New archeological discoveries. il *$3 Funk
225 17-15313

  The author, who holds the chair of English Bible and philosophy of
  religion at Allegheny college, Pa., tells us that he is the first to
  attempt “to give a summary of all the discoveries in all lands, so far
  as these in any important way have cast light upon the New Testament
  writings or the life of the primitive church”; that the mass of new
  information utilized by him comes from the recently unearthed Greek
  and Coptic papyri; that “many of the texts are here translated into
  English for the first time”; and that his “semi-popular summary of
  important results” has been written “primarily for Bible teachers and
  ministers.” Dr Cobern shows that the papyri recently discovered in
  Egypt “prove conclusively that the Greek in which the New Testament
  was written was ... the vernacular of the day,” (Lit D) and that this
  “has led, not only to a rewriting of the New Testament grammars and
  lexicons but to a general recasting of very many phrases in the
  gospels and epistles, some of which were formerly obscure.” (Boston
  Transcript) A list of Scripture texts, illustrated is given on pages
  687-8. There is an introduction by Edouard Naville, professor of
  archeology at the University of Geneva.

  “Dr Cobern has produced a monumental work, in which he has brought
  down even to the opening of the current calendar year the richest and
  fullest knowledge which sheds light upon hitherto dark places in the
  Bible story.” E. J. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 27 ‘17 1150w

  “The fact that Dr Naville has written the introduction is sufficient
  guarantee of the scholarly character of Dr Cobern’s work. The present
  volume will prove of the greatest utility to the large number of
  readers who look for just such a ready reference to the scientific
  discoveries of modern times, and scholars, too, with large libraries
  at their disposal, will welcome the main facts presented in this
  condensed form.”

       + =Cath World= 106:244 N ‘17 360w

  “While filled with illuminating material that will be prized by
  scholars and Bible students, it is written in a style so popular as to
  make a strong appeal to every book-lover. ... The illustrations are
  exceptionally fine, showing numerous portrait busts, recently
  excavated temples, and other buildings, frescoes, sarcophagi, etc.”

       + =Lit D= 55:32 Jl 14 ‘17 650w

  “Dr Cobern brings the life and the customs of the early Christians
  before us in astonishing detail.”

       + =Lit D= 55:41 D 8 ‘17 230w

       + =N Y Times= 22:326 S 2 ‘17 90w

         =Outlook= 117:219 O 10 ‘17 100w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:698 O ‘17 50w

  “It is manifestly unfair to write what purports to be a scientific
  study and to twist facts and give far-fetched interpretations of facts
  to fit a preconceived system of ideas. Camden M. Cobern has written a
  compendious work in which he is carried much too far by
  prepossessions. He at times makes astonishing statements and neglects
  to give the slightest authority or evidence therefor.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 880w


=COCHRAN, MRS EVE OWEN.= Wilderness rose; a play in four acts especially
adapted for the use of American historical societies and chapters of the
D. A. R. (American dramatists ser.) *$1 Badger, R: G. 812 17-10977

  A pageant-play designed for amateur production. It tells a story of
  colonial New England in the days of the witchcraft delusion. Naomi
  Dickinson, a young girl, is accused of witchcraft. She flees from her
  native village and finds shelter with friendly Indians. Repentance on
  the part of the woman who had cast suspicion upon her and the efforts
  of her lover to find her result in her return and a happy ending.


=COCKE, SARAH COBB (JOHNSON) (MRS LUCIAN HOWARD COCKE).= Master of the
hills; a tale of the Georgia mountains. *$1.50 Dutton 17-17974

  “Mrs Cocke [relates] the adventures of two generations of the old
  Georgian family of Warner, whose lives are curiously interwoven with
  those of the family of the sturdy mountaineer, ‘Gray Eagle,’ known to
  his clan as ‘the Master of the hills.’ The story opens just before the
  outbreak of the Civil war, when, after finishing their education in
  Europe, the son and nephew of Judge Warner have returned to the little
  Georgian university town. ... With them comes the young Marquis de
  Layne, whose advent brings about an undreamed-of complication
  involving not only the Warners and their friends, but the family of
  the mountaineer Gray Eagle.”—Boston Transcript

  “The changed conditions in the South, after the war, are well
  indicated. And although they are presented from a southern point of
  view, they are free from those mannerisms which often make pictures of
  the kind valueless. The story is agreeably told, sustaining its quiet
  interest to the end.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 250w

  “The book proves, if it proves anything at all, that an author may be
  fairly truthful in regard to history, geography, and dialect, and yet
  completely miss the essential characteristics of a people.”

       — =Dial= 63:163 Ag 30 ‘17 80w

  “To call it unreal is to insult reality. We marvel most at its finding
  a publisher.” Clement Wood

     – — =N Y Call= p14 S 2 ‘17 330w

  “The author’s style is poor.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:286 Ag 5 ‘17 250w

  “The book shows immature workmanship.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 23 ‘17 270w


=COCROFT, SUSANNA.= Growth in silence; the undertone of life. il *$1.50
(5c) Putnam 131 17-25740

  A cheerful, demonstrable theory of life underlies these helpful
  sermonettes. Women who owe Mrs Cocroft a debt of gratitude for
  demonstrating the way to fuller physical perfection will turn with
  confidence to what she has to say on the subject of Mental and
  physical poise, Happiness, Mental atmosphere, Health, Nerve control,
  Freedom of thought, and kindred themes. The philosophy is a philosophy
  of optimism which if put into practice develops the harmonies of the
  soul, and in turn manifest harmony in the body. A book for both men
  and women.


=COESTER, ALFRED LESTER.= Literary history of Spanish America. *$2.50
(2c) Macmillan 860 16-18492

  For descriptive note see =Annual for 1916.=

  “One pays tribute to the author’s labor, and also to his scholarship.
  In his printing of Spanish names and quotations, he is singularly
  accurate, only a negligible number of trifling errors having fallen
  under the reviewer’s eye. ... It may be that, in the course of his
  long poring over South American writers, and his epitomes of their
  books, Dr Coester sometimes loses his sense of proportion; is betrayed
  into calling a poet great because his admiring fellow-countrymen did
  so. But as a whole he keeps his head and his poise.”

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:202 O ‘17 550w

  “Mr Coester’s book fills an inestimable place as a guide and
  counsellor in this otherwise uncharted study.” T: Walsh

       + =Bookm= 45:318 My ‘17 830w

  “A closing chapter on the contemporary Modernista movement is
  especially valuable for its appreciation and criticism of the work of
  the brilliant Nicaraguan lyric poet, Ruben Darío, who died recently.
  Used in conjunction with the author’s bibliography of Spanish-American
  literature, published in the Romanic Review, we have here the best
  available guide, in English, for the novitiate in this field.”

       + =Ind= 89:457 Mr 12 ‘17 280w

  “Devoting some forty pages to what he has called the ‘Colonial period’
  of Spanish-American literature, the author exhibits with a wealth of
  interesting detail the origins of one of the most fascinating of
  literary epochs. The average reader will here find an unexplored mine
  of information. He will gain some idea of Spain’s eminence in the
  field of literature.”

       + =Lit D= 54:2000 Je 30 ‘17 470w

  “Dr Coester is a young Harvard man, corresponding member of the
  Hispanic society of America, and author of a ‘Practical Spanish
  grammar,’ and kindred text books.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:109 Mr 25 ‘17 770w

  “Mr Coester gives a chapter to each country. The average reader is
  surprised to learn that there is a school of realistic novelists in
  Mexico, which most Americans cannot think of as a literary nation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 220w


=COHEN, ISRAEL.= Ruhleben prison camp, il *$2.50 (2½c) Dodd 940.91 (Eng
ed 17-18379)

  Ruhleben is a race course outside Berlin that is now used as a
  concentration camp for British civilians. The author was interned
  there for nineteen months, from November 6, 1914 to June 6, 1916. He
  says, “In the following pages I have endeavoured to set forth as
  faithfully as my memory would permit the varied vicissitudes through
  which I passed from the outbreak of the war down to my arrival in
  London. I have confined myself as much as possible to a record of my
  own experiences and observations, supplemented only to a small extent
  by the information I gleaned from trustworthy fellow-prisoners.” He
  writes of: The act of internment; Rules, regimen, and rumours; The
  segregation of the Jews; Administration, discipline, and punishment;
  Communal organization; Social amenities and characters; Intellectual
  activities, etc.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:18 O ‘17

  “The experiences related have naturally a good deal in common with
  those described by Mr Geoffrey Pyke in his book published in February,
  1916, but Mr Cohen’s way of meeting troubles and difficulties does not
  appear to us to have been so commendable.”

         =Ath= p258 My ‘17 43w

         =Ath= p346 Jl ‘17 330w

       + =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 80w

  “The whole story is told dispassionately and with a charm of manner
  and power of description that make the recital one of the most vivid
  and fascinating chapters yet written in the history of the great war.”

       + =Dial= 63:68 Jl 19 ‘17 330w

  “It is owing to Mr Cohen’s faculty of conveying these impressions
  vividly as well as to his graphic descriptions of external conditions
  that his book has such great human interest.”

       + =Nation= 105:44 N 15 ‘17 210w

       + =N Y Times= 22:215 Je 3 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:761 N ‘17 60w

         =Pratt= p39 O ‘17 10w

  “An accomplished journalist, he has none of the higher gifts of
  writing which stir and thrill the heart. Rather he has written a sober
  and comprehensive history which will survive as a permanent document
  of the war when the brilliant sketches are, perhaps, forgotten. ...
  The illustrations are well chosen and serve to complete a remarkably
  full book, so thick with detail that it is somewhat difficult to
  read.”

       + =Sat R= 123:368 Ap 21 ‘17 1900w

       + =Spec= 118:676 Je 16 ‘17 150w

  “Of all the books so far printed about Ruhleben it is the most
  complete, though it could not, in the nature of the case, tell all
  that there is to be told. It has, no doubt, the defects of its
  qualities. ... One must go elsewhere for a study of the effect of too
  much barbed wire upon the human mind.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p122 Mr 15 ‘17 1050w


=COHEN, JULIUS HENRY.= The law; business or profession? *$2.50 Banks 340
16-23082

  “‘The law: business or profession?’ raises and answers the question of
  the ethics of law practice. Mr Cohen finds the case hopeful. He does
  not blink the bad reputation which lawyers as a class have gained with
  the common people, and he does not assert that it is unjustified by
  facts. But he points out a growing spirit within the bar to cleanse
  itself of undesirable practitioners, and to keep the law as a
  profession free from business entanglements and from corruption
  through financial interests.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Mr Cohen writes with earnestness and vigor. His plea for the
  recognition of the law as a profession and not a business will benefit
  every lawyer and layman who reads it.”

       + =Nation= 105:127 Ag 2 ‘17 670w

  “It is not to be thought that there is anything local about the book.
  It is even broader than the nation, many leading countries being
  searched for cases affording a basis for the principles which control
  the lawyer’s professional ethics everywhere, and in all times.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:14 Ja 14 ‘17 800w

  “Sound doctrine for both the profession and the public.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 1 ‘17 270w


=COIT, STANTON.= Is civilization a disease? *$1 (6c) Houghton 302
17-13984

  In this essay, presented first at the University of California in the
  series of Barbara Weinstock lectures on the morals of trade, the
  author uses the term trade in a broad sense to include our whole
  system of socialized wealth. Civilization is defined as “the
  organization of man’s mastery over nature on a basis of self
  interest,” and modern trade is said to disclose civilization in its
  acutest form. Civilization, the author points out, is a mushroom
  growth. It is already beginning to crumble, and will in time be
  superseded by a new order which is already in process of creation. The
  title of the little book is suggested by Edward Carpenter’s
  “Civilization: its cause and cure.”

  “These lectures bear the earmarks of shallow thinking, as well as the
  defacements of fulsome expression.” Archibald Henderson

       — =Bookm= 46:275 N ‘17 300w

  Reviewed by H. M. Kallen

         =Dial= 63:445 N 8 ‘17 580w

         =Ind= 90:555 Je 23 ‘17 50w

  “If the Barbara Weinstock lectures are to be the vehicle for such wild
  surmisings as those displayed in ‘Is civilization a disease?’ the
  founder’s money might have been put to much better uses.”

       — =Nation= 105:350 S 27 ‘17 230w

         =R of Rs= 56:327 S ‘17 250w

  “Dr Coit is evidently one of those sociological rhetoricians who
  preach eugenics in season and out of season. Otherwise he might have
  been graciously willing to discuss the very interesting subject
  proposed by the foundation of lectures which he was the first to
  adorn.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 18 ‘17 280w

  “Dr Coit, in this essay, provides a stupendous idea in tabloid form.”
  Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 39:201 N 24 ‘17 400w


=COLE, NORMAN BROWN, and ERNST, CLAYTON H.= First aid for boys. il
*$1.25 Appleton 614.8 17-14057

  “A manual for boy scouts and for others interested in prompt help for
  the injured and the sick.” (Sub-title) Contents: A handful of signs;
  What to do; Shock and fainting; A little about the blood and more
  about bleeding; Sunstroke and heat exhaustion; Concussion, skull
  fracture, apoplexy, alcoholic intoxication, and epilepsy; Infection
  and “staphy”; Burns and frostbites; Poisoning; Bandages and carries;
  Fractures and dislocations; Drowning and artificial respiration; Minor
  emergencies. There are fifty-one illustrations from drawings by Walt
  Harris. The book is endorsed by James E. West, chief scout executive
  of the Boy scouts of America.

  “Directions well given and simplified by diagrams.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:64 N ‘17

  “Dr Cole and Mr Ernst have been active workers in the scout movement,
  and have made their book not only sound technically but adapted
  psychologically to the interest of the boy reader. ... Similarly, the
  drawings by Walt Harris reinforce the text accurately and
  ingeniously.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 300w

       + =Lit D= 55:59 D 8 ‘17 60w

         =Pratt= p20 O ‘17


=COLEMAN, ALGERNON, and LA MESLÉE, A. MARIN.= Le soldat américain en
France, map *50c Univ. of Chicago press 448 17-22278

  A French reader containing “chapters on France, transports, hotels,
  railroads, manners and customs, food, money, army, etc., with a
  vocabulary giving the article with all nouns and indicating
  pronunciation.”—A L A Bkl

  “To be used in connection with either of the University of Chicago
  manuals.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:9 O ‘17

  “For the green student, this little book would be wholly useless,
  unless studied with a teacher. The figured pronunciation, even with
  the instructions given would be an unsolvable mystery. ... The verb is
  the back-bone of a language; but not a hint is given as to the
  inflections. The chapters that follow the elaborate statement of
  pronunciation are written in idiomatic French and are a mixture of the
  commonplace and the valuable.”

     – + =Boston Transcript= p7 S 22 ‘17 220w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:693 O ‘17 20w


=COLEMAN, FREDERIC ABERNETHY.= With cavalry in the great war; the
British trooper in the trench line. il *$1.50 Jacobs 940.91 A17-1461

  “A phase of the fighting on the western front, of which we have known
  little, is covered by Mr Coleman in this personal narrative of the
  exploits of the British cavalry through the second battle of Ypres.
  Some of our readers may recall Mr Coleman’s earlier book entitled,
  ‘From Mons to Ypres with General French.’ The present volume takes up
  the story where its predecessor left it—with the closing days of
  1914.”—R of Rs

  Reviewed by C. M. Francis

       — =Bookm= 46:450 D ‘17 300w

  “Mr Coleman’s book is copiously illustrated with excellent
  photographic views.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 S 19 ‘17 430w

     + — =Dial= 63:589 D 6 ‘17 150w

         =R of Rs= 56:549 N ‘17 150w


=COLERIDGE, STEPHEN.= Evening in my library among the English poets.
*$1.25 Lane 821 17-13371

  An essay on English poetry, with many quotations. The author says, “I
  invite the reader to spend an evening in my library, drawing down a
  volume here and a volume there, following no definite order either of
  date or subject, guided only by a desire to estimate without prejudice
  the quality of the verse.” Among the poems selected for quotation are
  many that are not universally known. Among these are a few of the more
  exquisite of modern poems. With the radical departures in
  verse-making, the author has no sympathy.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 My 5 ‘17 700w

  “This book is rather a personal expression of likes and dislikes in
  the field of poetry than a work of genuine criticism, that will have
  an abiding value in one’s own library.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:687 Ag ‘17 280w

  “The anthology on the whole is fair, and something more than that. It
  includes poems from little-known authors, which any reader will be
  glad to have brought to his notice. The book leaves an impression in
  harmony with its title.”

     + — =Nation= 104:661 My 31 ‘17 300w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:61 Ap ‘17

  “A book which definitely assists in the development of literary
  taste.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:104 Jl ‘17 70w

       + =Sat R= 122:438 N 4 ‘16 2200w

  “A very unconventional anthology, interspersed with some candid
  criticism. The modern apostles of ‘force’ like Mr Masefield, and the
  late Rupert Brooke, and Francis Thompson in his highly rhetorical mood
  are sternly reproved. ... For our part, we could wish that Mr
  Coleridge had not included second-rate modern verse like ‘The rosary,’
  and that he had hesitated before asserting that Goldsmith’s ‘Deserted
  village’ was inspired while Gray’s ‘Elegy’ was not.”

     – + =Spec= 17:660 N 25 ‘16 110w

  “Some of the poems, too, are worthy of rediscovery and deserve a
  popularizing of their merits. But most of them are less unfamiliar
  than Mr Coleridge seems to think.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 350w

  “What are the principles that guide Mr Coleridge in choosing
  selections for our improvement and delight? It is not difficult to
  discover them. The prize always goes to the poet of finish and
  scholarship, who observes the laws of prosody and elevates and refines
  the passions, which is Mr Coleridge observes, the ‘true function of
  the poet.’ And with this for his standard he moves his poets up and
  down like boys in a class. ... Enough has been said, perhaps, to show
  that, though we should not allow Mr Coleridge to choose our new poets
  for us, he is a very vigilant guardian of the old.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p523 N 2 ‘16 850w


=COLLIN, CHRISTEN CHRISTIAN DREYER.= War against war, and the
enforcement of peace; introd. by W: Archer. *80c Macmillan 341.1 (Eng ed
17-18476)

  “Professor Collin, of Christiania, is one of the most eminent of
  Norwegian writers. ... In these eleven essays he writes with much
  force in support of the allied cause, and deals effectively with the
  utterances on the other side in his own country and in Germany—his
  view of the future being that ‘universal peace will be secured not by
  disarmament but by joint armament.’”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “An excellent statement of our cause by a detached observer. ...
  Perhaps the most interesting chapter in the book is the essay on
  Kant’s ‘Perpetual peace.’ Prof. Collin fixes on the ironical fact that
  it was Kant, a German, who first promulgated the idea of the gradual
  federation of the free nations of the world into a world-republic.”

       + =Ath= p296 Je ‘17 480w

  “Prof. Christen Christian Collin, of the University of Christiania, is
  an acknowledged authority upon Greek, Norwegian, French, and English
  literature, and an ardent sociologist.”

       + =Ath= p301 Je ‘17 100w

  “A very sensible plea for the cause of the Entente Allies.”

       + =Ind= 92:60 O 6 ‘17 90w

         =Nation= 105:182 Ag 16 ‘17 100w

  “Nearly all of the essays take up the idea of a league of nations as
  an outcome of the present war whose function it would be to lessen the
  danger of war in the future and perhaps even prevent its recurrence.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:269 Jl 22 ‘17 570w

         =Pratt= p39 O ‘17 50w

       + =Spec= 118:616 Je 2 ‘17 120w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p215 My 5 ‘17 270w


=COLLINS, ARCHIE FREDERICK.= Home handy book. il *$1.10 Appleton 680
17-14069

  “A compendium of useful things to do around the average house and how
  to keep it in repair.” (Sub-title) The author advises every man to
  learn how to do his own repair work on two counts: first, he will save
  money, second, he will take pride and pleasure in doing things for
  himself. He writes of: Tools everyone should have; Indoor mechanics;
  Be your own locksmith; Doing electrical jobs; The amateur plumber; The
  handy glazier; The furniture repairer; The home decorator; Handy helps
  for the house; Odds and ends.

       + =Pratt= p24 O ‘17 20w

         =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 20w

  “Just the thing for the man who likes to ‘putter around,’ or the
  growing boy who wishes to make himself handy.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:555 N ‘17 40w


=COLLINS, ARCHIE FREDERICK.= Magic of science. il *$1.25 Revell 530
17-19383

  “In ‘The magic of science,’ A. Frederick Collins has compiled, largely
  from manuals of his own writing, a book of scientific amusements which
  can be performed with simple apparatus. Practical glimpses are
  provided into the mystery of light, heat, sound, magnetism and
  electricity, and a successful effort is made to set the experiments in
  an orderly sequence that should make for the positive instruction of
  the youthful experimenter. Many of the processes are already familiar,
  but they lose none of their interest from that fact. There are
  numerous illustrations.”—Springf’d Republican

  “It will interest and spur boys’ curiosity in spite of its
  unattractive make-up.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:136 Ja ‘18

  “His latest volume deals with scientific facts, novel and delightful
  facts many of them, and small boys with average intelligence aged from
  eleven to fifteen will read it with eagerness.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 1 ‘17 100w

  “We are sorry for the boy who cannot own a copy of this fascinating
  book.”

       + =Ind= 91:265 Ag 18 ‘17 30w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 90w


=COLLINS, ARCHIE FREDERICK.= Money making for boys. il *$1 (2c) Dodd 658
17-31276

  Practical money-making schemes for boys in the country, village or
  city based on the best business ethics. The value to the boy is that
  the instruction tends to train him to put a value on whatever is sold
  that is fair to both customer and to himself. The training itself
  forms the foundation of a business career; it brings into play all of
  the ingenuity of the boy and helps him direct it into profitable
  channels. Contents: Why every boy should make money; Ways a boy can
  make money; How to start an agency business; Running a messenger
  service; Getting and doing trade jobs; There’s money in refreshments;
  Raising small live stock; In partnership with the earth; Fishing,
  hunting and trapping; Making things to sell; Working for other people;
  What to do with your money.


=COLLINS, ARCHIE FREDERICK, and COLLINS, VIRGIL DEWEY.=[2] Boys’ book of
submarines. il *$1.35 (3c) Stokes 623.8 17-31264

  A book for boys, made up of the following chapters: The first of the
  submarines; How to make and work a model submarine; How a real
  submarine is made and works; The heart of the submarine; Making and
  shooting the torpedo; Making the submarine deadlier; The wonderful eye
  of the submarine; The marvelous tongue and ears of the submarine; The
  crew of the submarine; How the submarine attacks; The new submarine
  chasers; The last word in submarines. There are illustrations from
  photographs and numerous figures and diagrams.

  “A book that is a help to the understanding of war news.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:591 D 23 ‘17 30w

  “A splendid book for the boy who is interested in boats and
  mechanics.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:215 F ‘18 190w


=COLLINS, CHARLES WALLACE.= National budget system. *$1.25 (4½c)
Macmillan 351.73 17-20555

  “This work is an attempt to show in as brief a compass as possible
  what the budget system is, why it is said to be needed for the United
  States, and what adjustments could possibly be made short of a
  constitutional amendment to secure its adoption. ... The writer has
  attempted, even at the risk of the loss of scientific technique, to
  make this exposition readable. The work is not intended to be original
  or exhaustive. ... In the preparation of this work the author has used
  portions of an article of his, ‘Constitutional aspects of a national
  budget system’ in the Yale Law Journal for March, 1916, and another,
  ‘The coming of the budget system’ in the South Atlantic Quarterly for
  October, 1916.” (Preface) A short list of authorities is appended.

  “The intricacies of national finance are not easily expressed in
  simple terms but the author of the present volume set out to do this
  and on the whole he has succeeded. This is not because he has evaded
  or glossed over the difficulties but because he first explains with
  sufficient detail just how each of the great countries prepares its
  financial program for the year and then indicates where our own
  short-comings are. His criticism of the American system is incisive
  and to the point, but not overdone.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:791 N ‘17 120w

       + =Cath World= 106:257 N ‘17 450w

  “On the whole the argument presented is excellent, but some of the
  difficulties which would be involved under our present system of
  federal government are passed over with slight or no consideration.”

     + — =J Pol Econ= 25:1058 D ‘17 230w

  “Mr Collins’ book is a distinctly valuable contribution. It contains
  little original material. All the data he uses lay undigested in the
  forbidding tomes of committee reports, statutes and treatises on
  political science. But, except for Professor Ford’s ‘Cost of our
  national government,’ little of this has been predigested for popular
  consumption. Mr Collins’ book is more up to date, has a wider sweep
  and contains more definite proposals for change, while it avoids even
  more successfully the pitfalls of technical lingo and involved
  exposition.” Evans Clark

       + =N Y Call= p14 O 21 ‘17 1450w

       + =N Y Times= 22:483 N 18 ‘17 1250w

  “Public finance is generally a dry subject, but Judge Collins has
  managed with rare ability to make his volume interesting and
  comprehensive. It should appeal to the ordinary reader as well as to
  students. Not the least interesting part of the work is the author’s
  description of the various budget systems of foreign governments.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 250w

  “This compact little book admirably fulfils the purpose of its author.
  Much stress is properly laid upon the history and budget practice of
  Great Britain and while all that the author says in praise of the
  English budget system is true, he has missed the significance of the
  treasury as a great independent department of administration or
  business management. He has likewise failed to call attention in his
  references to authorities and sources for further study of budget
  systems to the remarkable collection of literature on this subject
  edited and published by the New York Bureau of municipal research.” S:
  M. Lindsay

     + — =Survey= 39:266 D 1 ‘17 300w


=COLLINS, FRANCIS ARNOLD.= Air man. il *$1.30 (4c) Century 629.1
17-21113

  The conquests of the air man in peace and war are told by the author
  of “The camera man,” “The wireless man,” etc. The opening chapter on
  Learning to fly describes and compares the methods of teaching in use
  in America and in France, and enumerates the requisites for obtaining
  an American flying license. Other chapters are: The aero-sportsman,
  Aero-exploration and adventure; Aerial transportation; Embattled
  air-fleets; Air duels; American airmen under fire; The chivalry of the
  air. The final chapter, American air forces, tells of what has been
  accomplished in, and is planned for, aviation in America.

  “A book to arouse enthusiasm and confidence in aviation.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:44 N ‘17

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

         =Bookm= 46:286 N ‘17 30w

  “With its interesting text and graphic illustrations from over fifty
  photographs, ‘The air man’ ranks among the extremely few books upon
  aviation that appeal to the average American who wants the thrill of
  its story free of the dry-as-dust of equations and diagrams.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 24 ‘17 240w

  “Of interest to boys and adults.”

       + =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 20w

         =Nation= 105:349 S 27 ‘17 540w

  “Mr Collins’s book is very opportune, and the fact that it is so well
  done, gives so comprehensive a view of the general subject of
  aeronautics and of what has been already accomplished therein and is
  written with accuracy, although it is not too technical for the
  ordinary reader, will help to give it the popularity it deserves.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:294 Ag 12 ‘17 800w


=COLUM, PADRAIC.= Mogu, the wanderer; or, The desert; a fantastic comedy
in three acts. *$1 Little 822 17-8575

  Padraic Colum has been closely associated with the Irish dramatic
  movement, but in this play he leaves his native Ireland to write a
  drama of the East. The scene is laid in Persia. Mogu the wanderer is a
  beggar from the desert who at one stroke of fate is elevated to the
  viziership, made second in power to the king. By an equally sudden
  chance he is restored to his former lowly position, to return to his
  desert a beggar.

  “Full of authentic oriental color.”

       + =Dial= 62:445 My 17 ‘17 210w

  “On the stage, when properly presented in accordance with Mr Colum’s
  directions, it would make a remarkable picture. There is,
  unfortunately, in the early act an element of uncertainty as to how
  far the imagination is to play a part in the development of the plot,
  as to where the audience is to be serious or not, that somewhat
  confuses the dramatic action.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:168 Ap 29 ‘17 160w

  “The play is fascinating and it presents a new phase of Mr Colum’s
  dramatic invention. The key to this phase is in his volume of poems,
  ‘Wild earth.’”

       + =R of Rs= 55:441 Ap ‘17 210w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 280w


=COLVIN, IAN D.= Unseen hand in English history. *7s 6d National review
office, London (Eng ed 17-25264)

  “Mr Colvin’s ‘Unseen hand in English history’ is a continuation of his
  book ‘The Germans in England.’” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) “He
  reviews the chief events of English history since the Tudors with the
  object of showing what the traditional English policy is.” (Sat R)
  “The bulk of the book is a plea on not very novel grounds for a
  protective system, or, as he ... prefers to call it, ‘national
  industry.’” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

  “The book is not history: it is not even good honest fiction. It is
  simply a pamphlet decked out with an apparatus of learning. ... It is,
  however, well worth perusing as a study of Jingo psychology. Mr
  Colvin, whose incisive style may be recognized in the leading columns
  of the Morning Post, [draws] his ideas not from Britain, but from
  Berlin.”

       — =Ath= p399 Ag ‘17 570w

  “The book is well worth reading. A lively style, adroit selections, an
  instinct for contemporary sources and authorities, distinguish Mr
  Colvin from most of our professional historians, who fear they will
  lose their name for science if they cease to be dull. ... He argues
  strongly for a tariff, and he chooses the best arguments for his
  case.”

   + + — =Sat R= 124:50 Jl 21 ‘17 780w

  “Mr Colvin is too much in the grip of Germany.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p302 Je 28 ‘17 1050w


=COLVIN, SIR SIDNEY.= John Keats; his life and poetry, his friends,
critics, and after-fame. il *$4.50 Scribner 17-30270

  “Besides presenting for the first time in full and consecutive detail
  the history of Keats’s life and poetical activity, the new book
  discusses with a fullness which has not hitherto been attempted his
  relations both to his Elizabethan masters and some of his Victorian
  followers, and relates the slow and gradual growth of his fame after
  his death. It moreover throws, with the help of various illustrations
  from prints, pictures, and the antique, new light on some of the
  sources of his inspiration; and aims at calling up the circle of his
  friends in their human lineaments about him, as well as at making felt
  the various and conflicting currents of the critical and poetical
  atmosphere amid which he lived.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “A scholarly, full and connected account.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:127 Ja ‘18

  “Sir Sidney Colvin, in this fine reassortment of the facts of Keats’s
  life, seems to us to be insufficiently content with Keats’s actual
  performance. He is eager to introduce an ethical nobleness into the
  portrait such as certainly is not reflected in Keats’s greatest
  poetry.”

     + — =Ath= p664 D ‘17 1400w

  “This careful, thorough, tactful, and exhaustive work renders obsolete
  all previous expressions of opinion upon Keats; it deserves, indeed,
  to be labelled with the final word, ‘definitive.’ If this monumental
  volume is, in any way, disappointing to the present commentator, it is
  only because Sir Sidney Colvin—actuated by his trained and careful
  sense of literary values—has avoided sedulously many manifest
  temptations to assert and to insist upon the prime importance of his
  hero. And, to my mind Sir Sidney says, if anything, too little in
  praise of Keats.” Clayton Hamilton

     + — =Bookm= 46:609 Ja ‘18 1550w

  “A biography to which the very name and chronicle of the subject could
  not help but add its atmosphere of charm; but it is not a ‘life’ of
  Keats, because the biographer gets too near his subject without
  getting inside of it. It is always in the negative qualities of Keats,
  both as a man and poet, that Mr Colvin is best in his biographical and
  critical treatment.” W. S. B.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 8 ‘17 2050w

  “It is a book to read with delight; better still, it is a book that
  compels one to turn back and reread the poet himself.” W: C. Greene

       + =Dial= 64:64 Ja 17 ‘18 1050w

  “Until some chance discovery of fresh material antiquates it, this
  must remain the standard authority upon Keats, as accurate as patient
  scholarship can make it, and interesting to all scholarly and
  unscholarly lovers of poetry.” P. L.

       + =New Repub= 13:219 D 22 ‘17 1500w

  “The author’s monograph on Keats in the English men of letters series,
  published thirty years ago, has heretofore been the chief authority
  upon his life, character, and achievements, but compared with the
  full-length portrait, complete, detailed, and authoritative, presented
  in this volume, the other makes of him hardly more than a sketched
  vignette. It is a notable and distinguished piece of biographical
  writing that is worthy to be classed among the great biographies of
  English literature.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:542 D 9 ‘17 1950w

  “Manifestly a labour of love, this admirable work, illuminated
  throughout with thorough knowledge and fine critical acumen, deserves
  to take high rank in the select company of kindred classics. But the
  book is not only of absorbing interest as a masterly presentment of
  the poet and his work; it also teems with vivid studies of the circle
  in which he lived.”

       + =Sat R= 124:440 D 1 ‘17 1550w

  “A special feature of the book is the remarkably full treatment of the
  sources of his inspiration in literature. Another strong point is the
  helpful interpretation of the obscurities of Keats’s symbolism, with
  the result of enabling the reader to form a truer estimate of
  ‘Endymion’ than was before possible. And if the book has been a labour
  of love, it is love which is ‘this side idolatry.’ There is plenty of
  severe criticism of Keats’s lapses from good taste and clear
  thinking—his amorous mawkishness, his lax phrasing, and infelicitous
  coinages. Sir Sidney Colvin is scrupulously fair in his handling of
  Keats’s critics; if he lets himself go about Byron, the provocation is
  irresistible.”

       + =Spec= 119:601 N 24 ‘17 2050w

  “In a book that is itself a poem, so fine and true is its penetration,
  so full and sensitive its expression, Sir Sidney Colvin has assembled
  all the essential, one is tempted to say the quintessential, facts
  relative to the poet Keats.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Ja 20 ‘18 800w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p425 S 6 ‘17 260w

  “The new matter adds light and shade to the already vivid portraits of
  the poet and his friends, and examines his art more closely, both in
  itself and in its relation to the development of English poetry as a
  whole. In its pages the life and character of Keats stand out clear in
  all their subtle and tragic beauty.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p573 N 29 ‘17 3550w


Complete United States infantry guide; arr. by Major J. K. Parsons. il
*$6 Lippincott 356 17-21916

  This volume, for officers and noncommissioned officers, is said to
  include all the War department publications relating to the infantry
  arm of the service. It is profusely illustrated with charts and
  diagrams.

  “In this very formidable volume is all information required to make
  the infantry soldier efficient. His convenience will surely be served
  by this opportunity to learn what must be learned from one work,
  instead of being compelled to familiarize himself with twenty-five
  books.”

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 1 ‘17 150w

  “This encyclopedic volume should be in every military man’s library.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:442 O ‘17 80w

  “The material is well selected and arranged and the book contains a
  detailed index. The only difficulty results from the size of the
  publication with its 2074 pages.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 9 ‘17 200w


=COMSTOCK, DANIEL FROST, and TROLAND, LEONARD THOMPSON.= Nature of
matter and electricity; an outline of modern views. il *$2 Van Nostrand
530.1 17-8751

  “This is a book on the modern physics of matter intended for the
  general reader and written without mathematics. The authors have
  collaborated by writing different parts of the book. A large number of
  topics are presented to the reader in semi-popular form. The treatment
  is descriptive, aided by diagrams and chemical formula groupings, and
  technical terms have been avoided as far as possible. Part 1 is
  divided into eleven chapters on the following topics: Introductory,
  the ultimate realities, atoms and their behavior, the nature of heat
  and allied phenomena, the electron and its behavior, electrons,
  chemical action and light, electrons and magnetism, radio-activity,
  the structure of the atom, recent discoveries concerning atomic
  structure and radiation. Part 2 deals briefly in turn with fifty-six
  subjects and in a manner somewhat more advanced than that of part
  1.”—Elec World

         =Elec World= 70:24 Jl 7 ‘17 170w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:76 My ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:326 S ‘17


=COMSTOCK, MRS HARRIET THERESA.= Man thou gavest. il *$1.35 (2c)
Doubleday 17-11705

  The story opens in the southern mountains. Here Conning Truedale has
  come to regain his health, and here he meets little Nella-Rose. The
  witch-like, mountain child fascinates him, and the marriage vows they
  exchange under the open sky are as sacred to him as they are to her.
  Then he goes away, promising to return. He keeps his promise and is
  stunned to learn that the girl has married her outlaw lover and gone
  away over the mountains. This is what he is told, and believing it, he
  goes back to New York and in time marries. But the mountain people had
  been mistaken about Nella-Rose. She had been in hiding, waiting for
  the man she called her husband to return and for her child to be born.
  This child, “Lil’ Ann,” later comes into the lives of Conning Truedale
  and his wife, Lynda.

  “The fatal weakness in this story is not its artificiality of plot and
  excess of emotion so much as the hollow elaboration of its characters.
  We might have enjoyed the romance if the author had not tried to make
  it a vehicle of realism.” H. W. Boynton

       — =Bookm= 46:208 O ‘17 380w

  “Southern mountain dialect as it is not spoken is amply illustrated in
  Miss Comstock’s latest tale of involved heart interest.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 200w

  “The primitive life and character of the mountains are forced into the
  office of pointing up and giving a sort of exotic relish to an
  essentially and even conventionally ‘modern’ story. Against an action
  artificially contrived, the figure of Nella-Rose stands out with a
  good deal of vigor and clarity.”

       + =Nation= 105:317 S 20 ‘17 310w

  “As a whole the characters, like the tale, belong to melodrama.
  Ingenuity is shown in the management of the incidents which separate
  Truedale and Nella-Rose and some of the descriptions are well done.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:218 Je 3 ‘17 200w


=CONNOLLY, JAMES.= Labour in Ireland; with an introd. by Robert Lynd.
*4s Maunsel & co., London (Eng ed 17-25871)

  “Although James Connolly acted for many years in connection with the
  extreme Socialistic party in Scotland, the United States, and Belfast,
  it was not until the Dublin strikes of 1913 that he attracted much
  attention from the English public; and even then he was overshadowed
  in the popular judgment by the more spectacular ‘Jim’ Larkin. When the
  strikes collapsed he passed again out of general notice except in
  Dublin, where it was known that the nominal second-in-command of the
  Irish transport workers’ union was the real contriving head and
  driving-force of the movement. ... When the Sinn Fein rebellion broke
  out in Easter week of 1916, he appeared as Commandant-General of the
  Dublin division.’ ... The present volume is made up of reprints of two
  of his works, ‘Labour in Irish history’ and ‘The reconquest of
  Ireland.’ The first and more elaborate of the two is based on the
  thesis that the key to the secret of Irish history is the exploitation
  of the poor by the rich. ... The second part of the volume depicts, in
  the darkest colours, the condition of the working class in Dublin and
  Belfast at the present day.”—Spec

  “Given the point of view, the book is ably and not intemperately
  written. The author fairly admits difficulties in his theory—such, for
  example, as the inefficiency of local administration in Dublin, where
  the machinery of government is controlled by a democratic body
  democratically elected. His bias appears more in his selection and
  suppression of facts than in his presentment of them; he thinks he
  does well to be angry. But if you write history remembering only the
  severities used to restore law and order, and forgetting or justifying
  the outrages which provoked them: approving of force when used against
  the rich, and condemning it when used against the poor; assuming as a
  matter of course that a man of property always and necessarily acts
  from the basest of interested motives—you may produce a very vivid
  picture, but it will not bear much relation to the events and men it
  professes to portray.”

         =Spec= 118:702 Je 23 ‘17 1000w

  “‘Labour in Ireland’ cannot be overlooked by any one interested in
  Irish problems.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p221 My 10 ‘17 800w


=CONNOLLY, JAMES BRENDAN.= Running free. il *$1.35 (2c) Scribner
17-24272

  This volume includes ten stories of the sea or of seamen ashore,
  copyrighted 1913-17 by Charles Scribner’s sons, 1912-17 by P. F.
  Collier & son, 1916 by the Curtis publishing company. “A bale of
  blankets” is a story of American naval life; “The strategists” and
  “Breath o’ dawn” are naval romances, with the fleet in the background.
  Other stories are: The weeping Annie; The bull-fight; Peter stops
  ashore; The sea-birds; The medicine ship; One wireless night; Dan
  Magee: white hope.

  “Ten live sea stories told with humor and pathos.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:59 N ‘17

  “In all these brief, sometimes sketchy, but always effective
  picturings of life, the one sure, detectable Connolly touch is the
  signet-ring stamp of individuality. And it is an individuality born of
  the sea and of a deep, passionate, unalterable love of the sea.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 N 10 ‘17 290w

  “The wind whistles vigorously through Mr Connolly’s pages; they drip
  with brine; and the threatening face of death frequently interrupts
  the grim humor of the old salts. This good, clean, virile book, like
  the others that preceded it, will help to keep his fame afloat.”

       + =Cath World= 106:412 D ‘17 120w

  “Sensationalism is absent, but there is humor, human appeal and the
  real salty flavor.”

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 40w

  “The author is unhappy in the choice of the first story to appear in
  this book. ... But Mr Connolly is at home in the succeeding stories.
  They are strong, and the sharp tang and clean breath of the sea are
  beside the reader till the book is finished. Perhaps ‘Seabirds’
  contains more real character than the others, but ‘One wireless night’
  is the story of the book.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:sup14 N 17 ‘17 100w

  “‘Running free’ is devoid of sensationalism, free from melodrama. ...
  You will find a crowd of thoroughly human and humorous,
  unsentimentalized men of the sea. ... There is heroism as well as
  humor in these stories, but it is an unassuming, casual sort of
  heroism.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:365 S 30 ‘17 600w

  “The frequent assertion that romance disappeared from the sea with the
  advent of steam vessels is abundantly disproved in the ten short
  stories of ‘Running free.’ In spite of the apparent absence of
  artificial color, the stories are dramatic and thrilling.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 490w


=CONNOR, RALPH, pseud. (CHARLES WILLIAM GORDON).= The major. il *$1.40
(1c) Doran 17-30122

  The motif of Mr Connor’s story is one whose patriotic climax and
  poignant cadence echo in the souls of millions of men and women the
  world over today. Canada furnishes the scene and the characters, but
  the sentiment portrayed belongs to the whole wide world at war. The
  hero is a fine type of manhood, the best that countries can produce.
  He passes thru the period of bewilderment and misery, which thousands
  have gone thru, when the burden of his thought is, “that great people
  upon whose generous ideals and liberal Christian culture he had
  grounded a sure hope of permanent peace, had flung to the winds all
  the wisdom, and all the justice, and all the humanity which the
  centuries had garnered for them, and following the primal instincts of
  the brute, had hurled forth upon the world ruthless war.” Then came
  the succession of events chief among which were the Belgian
  atrocities, which kindled slowly in the hero’s heart the purpose to
  have a part in ridding the earth of a system that could produce such
  horrors. Many a young man will read in these pages his own reactions
  to the call to the colors.

  “The story-teller is successful in welding all his material into the
  substance of a spirited romance.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:603 Ja ‘18 380w

         =Nation= 105:667 D 13 ‘17 410w

  “While Mr Connor’s new novel cannot be said to amount to much as a
  story, the picture of Canada in the early days of the war with which
  it concludes is quite interesting.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:556 D 16 ‘17 300w

  “The story has the directness and ‘punch’ of earlier Ralph Connor
  books. It has also a sound and deep patriotic spirit.”

       + =Outlook= 117:614 D 12 ‘17 50w

  “It is almost startlingly ingenuous at times, but as a whole vigorous
  and life like.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p638 D 20 ‘17 140w


=CONRAD, JOSEPH.= Shadow line; a confession. *$1.35 (3½c) Doubleday
17-12955

  The shadow line marks the boundary between youth and maturity. Its
  approach is heralded by extreme boredom, weariness and
  dissatisfaction. It is a time of rash actions—getting married suddenly
  or throwing up one’s job without reason. The young seaman who is hero
  of this tale of the Malay Archipelago leaves his ship on a sudden
  impulse, intending to take passage for home. While idling about in an
  eastern seaport, opportunity comes his way and he finds himself
  captain of a sailing vessel whose master had but recently died. He is
  in command of this ship for twenty-one fever-ridden and ghost-haunted
  days, and at the end of his voyage he finds that the boundary line has
  been crossed. Youth lies behind him.

  “Gives somewhat the same sense of the power of the sea and the wonder
  of human nature as ‘Youth’ and ‘The typhoon.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:402 Je ‘17

  “The atmosphere and the portraiture are masterly, but the book seems
  to us more the elaboration of a short story than an actual novel.”

       + =Ath= p253 My ‘17 90w

  “The subtitle, ‘A confession,’ may lead us to surmise that the tale
  may be bound with special closeness to Mr Conrad’s own experience.” H.
  W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:536 Jl ‘17 480w

  “Nothing written by Mr Conrad during his twenty years of fame as a
  maker of English fiction is more characteristic than ‘The shadow
  line.’ It is an epitome of his manner and a summary of his method.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 5 ‘17 1450w

  “For Conrad, ‘the most unliterary of writers,’ is no more nor no less
  unliterary than Meredith or Swinburne or Shakespeare. No other
  writer—I do not except the poets—has a richer variety of verbal
  resource or uses his power with more careful command.” J: Macy

       + =Dial= 62:442 My 17 ‘17 700w

       + =Ind= 90:437 Je 2 ‘17 130w

       + =Lit D= 55:36 O 27 ‘17 290w

  “The tale is quite straightforward, with a sort of breathless
  simplicity and candor. ... It is told by a master.”

       + =Nation= 104:760 Je 28 ‘17 730w

  “Indeed, it might fairly be offered as a ‘first degree’ for the novice
  seeking initiation into the Conradian mysteries. The menace and the
  glamour of his ocean are here, the humanly strange yet strangely human
  atoms with which it plays.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 105:600 N 29 ‘17 100w

  “Mr Conrad has given us two superb pictures of courage.” Q. K.

       + =New Repub= 11:194 Je 16 ‘17 730w

  “About ‘The shadow line’ there is an extraordinary atmosphere of
  beauty. ... It is a beauty deeper than mere words go.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:157 Ap 22 ‘17 1700w

  “‘The shadow line’ is as vivid and as haunting as ‘The ancient
  mariner.’ What is more, it is thoroughly real and profoundly true.”

       + =No Am= 205:949 Je ‘17 700w

       + =Outlook= 116:116 My 16 ‘17 70w

  “This is a story for the present times, a gospel searching down into
  the hearts of men to awaken their potentialities in this period of
  world disaster and send them forth to fight valiantly against their
  ill-luck, their muddling and mistakes, and to bear with consummate
  courage the heavy responsibilities thrust upon them.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:663 Je ‘17 250w

  “For Mr Conrad the great object of love and enthusiasm is the ship
  which he came to know so intimately in his twenty years of seamanship.
  On the title-page [of the English edition] of this book is the
  sentence, ‘Worthy of my undying regard,’ and underneath stands no
  human name, but a ship with sails set. Here once more Mr Conrad shows
  that he loves a ship as a lover does his mistress, and so his latest
  book is an essential piece of himself, a return to earlier triumphs.”

       + =Sat R= 123:281 Mr 24 ‘17 950w

  “Mr Conrad’s new sea story may best be described as a Conradian
  version of ‘The ancient mariner.’ ... The volume is the first of a new
  ‘Conrad library,’ including several of his previous novels, but we
  cannot share the publishers’ satisfaction with the ‘specially
  attractive binding’ prepared for the series. Messrs Dent have deserved
  so well of the public in this respect that they must not complain if
  they are judged by their own high standard.”

       + =Spec= 118:391 Mr 31 ‘17 720w

  “It is books of this kind that earn for Conrad the epithet
  ‘Philosophic adventurer,’ and quicken one’s hope that he may be the
  chosen artist to achieve the final synthesis of realism and romance,
  toward which modern fiction has so long and uncertainly evolved.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 400w

  “The serene assurance of the imagination which is the outcome of all
  the finest work of Mr Conrad’s genius is here broken and uncertain.
  The moral over-balances the story. That deepest meaning which haunts
  the solemn beauty he has created, simply because, it may be, it has
  been pursued too consciously or too familiarly, has all but eluded
  him.”

     + — =The Times= [London] Lit Sup p138 Mr 22 ‘17 1000w


=CONRADI, ALBERT FREDERICK, and THOMAS, WILLIAM ANDREW.= Farm spies; how
the boys investigated field crop insects. il *50c Macmillan 632 16-19964

  “This is a collection of brightly written, well-illustrated
  ‘story-articles’ on various common injurious insects of North America,
  designed to catch the attention and enlist the sympathies of ‘boys and
  girls and those persons who know nothing about insects and how to
  fight them.’ Among the pests described are the cotton boll-weevil and
  root-louse, chinch-bugs, grasshoppers, and the black corn
  weevil.”—Nature

  “For fifth or sixth grade.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:130 D ‘16

  “Points in the breeding and feeding habits that bear on farm practice
  are often cleverly emphasised, and some of our British students might
  be well occupied in compiling for the home country a somewhat similar
  work.” G. H. C.

       + =Nature= 99:23 Mr 8 ‘17 250w

         =N Y Times= 22:165 Ap 29 ‘17 50w


=CONWAY, AGNES ETHEL.= Ride through the Balkans; on classic ground with
a camera; with introd. by Sir Martin Conway. il *$1.75 (3½c) Sturgis &
Walton 914.96 (Eng ed 17-10195)

  A novel story told in the fashion that best suited a woman traveler,
  who with another traveler of her own sex, in the months immediately
  succeeding a bloody war, wandered unescorted thru regions but recently
  disturbed, and met with kindness and hospitality at the hands of the
  people. Instead of an exhaustive treatment of objects of interest in
  the towns visited we find in the short chapters crisp, informing bits
  of history, description and comment that stand out with the definition
  of a photograph. The cities which occupy the leisurely tourists are
  Athens, Corinth, Constantinople, Salonica, Tempe, Thessaly, St Luke of
  Stiris, Delphi, Mistra and Sparta, Megalopolis, Bassæ, Yanina,
  Cettigne, Scutari and Dalmatia. The book is beautifully illustrated
  from photographs.

  “An ordinary narrative of travel, with plenty of human interest.
  Certain of the views leave something to be desired in regard to
  clearness of detail.”

     + — =Ath= p254 My ‘17 80w

  “Miss Conway’s book is very good reading, and all too brief.”

       + =Spec= 118:441 Ap 14 ‘17 150w

  “The work is lightly written, and archæology, which was the
  inspiration of the journey, is left in the background, as is explained
  in an excellent introduction by Sir Martin Conway; but it will appeal
  to the Antikajis, even amid their martial labours, as well as to the
  ordinary reader.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p46 Mr 29 ‘17 470w


=CONWELL, RUSSELL HERMAN.=[2] Observation:—every man his own university.
il *$1 (3c) Harper 374 17-26979

  By the author of “Acres of diamonds” this book is sent out “to induce
  people to look at their own eyes, to pick up the gold in their laps,
  to study anatomy under the tutorship of their own hearts.”
  Observation, the writer believes, is the key to success. This key is
  viewed in the light of a prized possession and the reader points the
  way to using it intelligently. Contents: Observation—the key to
  success; Who the real leaders are; Mastering natural forces; Whom
  mankind shall love; Need of orators; Woman’s influence; Every man’s
  university; Animals and “the least things”; The bottom rung; Home
  reading; Thoughtfulness; Instincts and individuality; Women; Musical
  culture; Oratory; Self-help; Some advice to young men.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:148 F ‘18


=CONWELL, RUSSELL HERMAN.= What you can do with your will power. *50c
(6c) Harper 174 17-9814

  The author says, “The message I would like to leave with the young men
  and women of America is a message I have been trying humbly to deliver
  from lecture platform and pulpit for more than fifty years. ... The
  message is this: Your future stands before you like a block of
  unwrought marble. You can work it into what you will. Neither
  heredity, nor environment, nor any obstacles superimposed by man can
  keep you from marching straight through to success, provided you are
  guided by a firm, driving determination and have normal health and
  intelligence.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:373 Je ‘17

         =Pratt= p5 Jl ‘17 30w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 130w


=CONYNGTON, THOMAS.= Corporate organization and management. $5 Ronald
347.1 17-24990

  Mr Conyngton’s two earlier books “Corporate management” and “Corporate
  organization,” published respectively in 1903 and 1904, have been
  revised and combined into one volume by Miss Helen Potter of the New
  York bar. “All duplicated and obsolete material has been deleted, and
  the volume as a whole has been brought sharply up to date. While this
  has been done, no necessary material has been omitted, all the
  valuable features of both volumes being retained.” (Preface) In its
  present form the work is made up of five parts: The corporate system;
  Corporate organization; Corporate management; Special corporate
  topics; Forms and precedents. The volume is indexed.

         =St Louis= 15:341 S ‘17 20w


=COOK, ARTHUR LEROY.= Interior wiring and systems for electric light and
power service. il *$2 Wiley 621.31 17-7827

  “This book is intended as a guide to modern practice in electric
  lighting and power applications, and in the design and installation of
  the wiring for such purposes.” (Preface) It has been written
  particularly for electrical workers but is also adapted for use in
  schools. The author is head of the department of applied electricity
  at Pratt institute. The book is made up of three parts: Electric
  lighting systems; Electric power systems; Interior wiring.

  “Valuable to electric workers occupied with only interior wiring,
  industrial works, office buildings, or dwellings. Covers this subject
  more fully than Croft.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:115 Ja ‘18

         =Cleveland= p109 S ‘17 20w

  “Examples illustrate each step. Of particular value to the electrical
  worker are the many diagrams of connections, illustrations of
  electrical apparatus and fixtures, curves and tables.”

       + =Elec World= 69:1268 Je 30 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 5:76 My ‘17

  “Practical and free from troublesome mathematics. A wealth of clearly
  expressed and definite information and instruction compressed into a
  volume of pocket size.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p8 Ap ‘17 120w

  “‘Treatment of lighting is especially good. ... Principles of
  illumination are taken up in a clear and concise manner. The
  thirty-three pages on calculation of illumination are eminently suited
  for the busy architect and contractor. ... The characteristics and
  advantages of various types of motors are given. Control devices are
  well treated. ... The chapter on selection of motors is good. ...
  Interior wiring forms the last section. ... A very useful feature is
  the chapter on examples of actual wiring systems.’”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:448 My ‘17 130w (Reprinted from Electrical Age
         p56 Ap ‘17)

         =Pittsburgh= 22:658 O ‘17

       + =Pratt= p17 Jl ‘17 40w

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ap ‘17 130w

         =St Louis= 15:364 O ‘17 20w


=COOK, CARROLL BLAINE (DIXIE CARROLL, pseud.).= Lake and stream game
fishing; with an introd. by James Keeley, and a foreword by Jack Lait.
il $1.75 (3c) Stewart & Kidd 799 17-20655

  This book, by the president of the American anglers league, conveys
  much practical instruction in matters of fresh-water angling. It
  includes “Stories of big fish as told by their captors”; “One hundred
  questions and answers on tackle, fish and fishing”; and “Poems of the
  water trails,” by Albert Jay Cook. There are ten full-page
  illustrations.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:48 N ‘17

  “More useful than many recent books on angling in that it gives minute
  and specific instructions, some of them intended for the mere novice,
  some valuable to the experienced sportsman. A student of Walton is
  tempted to the cynical remark that the English is what might be
  expected of a man who favors self-thumbing and self-spooling reels;
  but this doubtless betrays a hopelessly old-fashioned taste in both
  tackle and literary style.”

     + — =Dial= 63:408 O 25 ‘17 130w

  “Doubtless the novice who wishes to learn how to catch pike or bass in
  Wisconsin streams and lakes will get more out of Dixie Carroll to that
  immediate end than he could extract in any available allowance of time
  from Izaak Walton. But slang is a vehicle of expression all too easily
  overworked.”

     + — =Nation= 105:229 Ag 30 ‘17 430w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:654 O ‘17

  “Conceived in the spirit of Izaak Walton but actually written in the
  modern vernacular of the disciples of the rod and reel. A delightful
  book to read if you do not fish. The amusing introduction is by Jack
  Lait.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:333 S ‘17 50w


=COOK, SIR THEODORE ANDREA.= Mark of the beast. il *5s Murray, London
940.91 17-13490

  “The author’s object in collecting and arranging the facts marshalled
  in this book is to drive home the lesson that an inconclusive ‘peace
  with the German empire will be a disastrous defeat.’ The three main
  subjects are ‘German kultur,’ ‘German history and diplomacy,’ and
  ‘German atrocities.’ The prophecies of Bernhardi, the work of Col.
  Frobenius, and similar pronouncements, are submitted to illuminative
  criticism; the tortuousness and duplicity of German diplomacy are
  described at length; together with the appalling events at Louvain,
  Aerschot, Audenne, Dinant, &c.” (Ath) The illustrations are
  reproductions from Holbein’s “Dance of death.”

  “As a cumulative indictment of German methods this work is impressive
  and of deep gravity.”

         =Ath= p106 F ‘17 100w

       + =Sat R= 123:87 Ja 27 ‘17 870w

  “Our chief criticism of this book is that Sir Theodore Cook is not
  dealing quite fairly with his readers, for a very brief examination is
  sufficient to show that a considerable portion of it has already been
  republished in book form. Page after page of this work is identical
  with a large part of his previous book, ‘Kaiser, Krupp, and kultur,’
  including the quotations with which each chapter is headed; and of
  this fact no warning is given to the reader.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p56 F 1 ‘17 650w


=COOK, SIR THEODORE ANDREA.= Twenty-five great houses of France; the
story of the noblest French chateaux; with an introd. by W. H. Ward.
(Country life lib.) il *$16 Scribner 728.8

  “Sir Theodore Cook is an enthusiast for certain phases of French
  architecture, and he knows his subject. He is also an assiduous
  student of the romance of history, and he has given the results of his
  researches and wanderings in France in this handsome and attractive
  volume.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) “The author has described houses
  ranging in character from the citadel of a royal borough to the
  country seat of a minister of state, from a great fortified monastic
  establishment on its wind-swept cliff to a substantial burgher’s
  residence in the heart of a great city. In date the houses described
  range over five centuries.” (N Y Times)

  “The splendid page, the open type, the broad margins, the host of full
  page plates and the greater host of cuts of details make this study by
  T. A. Cook a thoroly delightful and valuable work on the chateaux.”

       + =Ind= 88:411 D 4 ‘16 110w

  “To architects and students of architecture and to all who have looked
  upon the noble buildings that made France lovely, even before the war
  had revealed her heroic soul, this book has an irresistible
  appeal. ... The text conveys a clear idea of the characteristic
  architecture of the buildings to even those readers who lack special
  knowledge of this subject, and the 380 illustrations are a joy to the
  eye.”

       + =N Y Times= 21:512 N 26 ‘16 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:39 Ja ‘17 20w

  “Sir Theodore Andrea Cook is the best of guides, for he is equally
  interested in history and in architecture. The letterpress exactly
  reflects in this respect the fascination of the châteaux.”

       + =Spec= 117:833 D 30 ‘16 1550w

  “Sir Theodore Cook is always sympathetic, sensitive to impressions,
  tolerant, and eminently readable, even if he sometimes loses touch of
  his critical sense in his full-blooded enthusiasm for all the
  pageantry of the past. But his chief concern is with people, with
  those who owned and those who lived in these great houses, rather than
  with the humble artist who designed them.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p5 Ja 4 ‘17 1600w


=COOKE, JOSEPH BROWN.= Baby, before and after arrival; intimate talks
with prospective mothers in plain, non-technical language. il *$1
Lippincott 618.2 16-23365

  “This book deals chiefly with the mother, before and after the baby’s
  arrival, and the title is therefore somewhat misleading. Recent
  statistics would seem to indicate that child-bearing is still quite
  hazardous. ... While infant mortality has been reduced almost 50 per
  cent within the last generation, the death rate of child-bearing
  mothers has remained stationary. Dr Cooke points out that, while the
  medical profession is chiefly to blame for this state of affairs, the
  public is responsible for a good many impediments it has put in the
  way of the conscientious physician in the scientific performance of
  his duties. He details the essential facts about pregnancy and
  childbirth, and indicates the necessity for cooperation between
  physician and patient.”—N Y Call

  “Written in not too technical language, adapted for mothers and
  nurses. ... It is blunter than Slemons and not so full as Davis.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:294 Ap ‘17

  “The entire problem is treated by the author in a practical and
  sensible fashion.” Medicus

       + =N Y Call= p14 F 18 ‘17 200w

  “‘In many ways it is an admirable presentation. ... It is encouraging
  to find another straightforward, thoroughly scientific popular book on
  the subject of childbearing.’” D. R. Mendenhall

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:334 Ap ‘17 30w (Reprinted from Journal of Home
         Economics p144 Mr ‘17)


=COOKE, MARJORIE BENTON.= Cinderella Jane. il *$1.35 (2c) Doubleday
17-11703

  By day Jane Judd cleaned studios in the Washington Square
  neighborhood. By night she devoted herself to the art of letters. For,
  unknown to the “Studio colony,” Jane had not only ambition, but
  ability of a rare order. Jerry Paxton, for whom she had worked for six
  years, had never taken any notice of Jane. To him she was a quiet,
  undemonstrative, domestic woman—the ideal wife for a popular society
  painter, unhappily beset by the women who fell victim to his charm.
  Unexpectedly Jerry asked Jane to marry him, and she accepted.
  Interesting developments follow; Jane’s first novel is published, and
  Jerry, who believes that a woman’s one career should be her husband,
  finds himself married to a woman who is famous. Their adjustment is
  the substance of the latter half of the story.

  “Will be popular. Appeared in the American Magazine.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:449 Jl ‘17

  “The truth is, genius apart, Jane is a rather tiresome and irritating
  person—to the male observer, at least.” H. W. Boynton

       — =Bookm= 45:534 Jl ‘17 500w

  “The plot is admirably worked out, with a surprise in every
  chapter. ... Jane is the super-woman type, a trifle too calm to be
  human. But she is an excellent girl and teems with lessons. Besides,
  she finally learns a few for herself.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 25 ‘17 280w

  “One is not sure about ‘Cinderella Jane.’ The writer is so set upon
  being modern, so enthusiastic about the current doctrine of marriage
  as a mutually free state, that she strains the point at the expense of
  her Jane and her husband.”

         =Nation= 104:737 Je 21 ‘17 380w

  “The best part of the book consists of the remarks made by Jane and
  the author regarding women’s careers and economic position, and in
  these there is nothing which will not prove entirely familiar to any
  one who has given any attention to these subjects.”

         =N Y Times= 22:166 Ap 29 ‘17 330w

         =Spec= 119:741 D 22 ‘17 30w

  “The theme is now a common one, but the qualities that made this
  author’s ‘Bambi’ so pleasing to many are here in even greater
  measure.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 350w

  “A novel of New York life, with a good deal of the unabashed emotional
  appeal one expects from so representative an American writer as the
  author of ‘The girl who lived in the woods.’”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p602 D 12 ‘17 130w


=COOLIDGE, ARCHIBALD GARY.= Origins of the Triple alliance. (Univ. of
Virginia, Barbour-Page foundation) *$1.25 (3½c) Scribner 940.9 17-20014

  This volume is based on three lectures given before the University of
  Virginia, in 1916, by Professor Coolidge of Harvard university,
  “pointing out the causes, personal and international, that led to the
  formation of the alliance. The author disclaims having made any
  startling discoveries or any new theories; his object is to set out
  the interplay of political forces, the aims of statesmen, and the
  aspirations of peoples in Europe after the Franco-Prussian war as an
  indispensable study for anyone who wishes to understand even in a
  superficial way the causes that have brought about the present
  world-conflict.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) Two appendices give the
  terms of the Austro-German alliance and the terms (so far as known) of
  the Triple alliance.

  “Its outstanding merit is lucidity of presentation and in this respect
  the book, considering its small compass and the involved nature of its
  subject, is a model of exposition. The ordinary student would have
  been grateful for a list of authorities other than the few referred to
  in the sparse footnotes.”

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:430 Ja ‘18 470w

  “Short but adequate and very lucid account of the origins of the
  Triple alliance.”

       + =Ath= p520 O ‘17 170w

  “The book is of general interest just now, when especial need is felt
  of a readable and accurate account of the political forces at work
  among the central European powers following the Franco-Prussian war.”
  L. E. Robinson

       + =Bookm= 46:272 N ‘17 350w

         =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 40w

         =Ind= 91:475 S 22 ‘17 170w

  “Though Professor Coolidge modestly disclaims having made any
  startling discoveries, his little volume is probably the clearest,
  sanest, and most objective brief account of the most important
  permanent results of European diplomacy between 1866 and 1882. Its
  value lies in the discriminating judgment, based on wide reading and
  personal acquaintance, with which he handles such elusive questions as
  the war scare of 1875, the personal relations between the old Kaiser
  and the Czar, and the devious motives of Bismarck, Gortchakov, and
  Andrássy. ... Professor Coolidge has also been wise in giving an
  unusually full analysis of the Russian and Balkan factors in the
  origins of the Triple alliance. These have ordinarily been much less
  appreciated than the Italian and French elements.”

       + =Nation= 105:223 Ag 30 ‘17 650w

  “It is pleasant to recognize a book in which Bismarck as a statesman
  is not, if the expression may be used, melodramatized out of all
  lifelikeness.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:383 O 7 ‘17 500w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:678 O ‘17

  “One of the best books to help one understand how the present way came
  about.” P. B.

       + =St Louis= 15:353 O ‘17 30w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p395 Ag 16 ‘17 90w


=COOLIDGE, DANE.= Rimrock Jones. il *$1.35 Watt 17-13184

  “‘Rimrock’ is a young Arizona prospector, possessing all the vices and
  virtues of his kind—the magazine and moving-picture kind. He discovers
  a fabulously rich copper mine. A young woman stenographer gives him
  her small savings to assist in establishing his claim, in return for
  which he gives her a one per cent interest in the property. He
  interests an eastern capitalist, but past experience has taught him to
  be wary of surrendering his control. Eventually, a fault develops in
  his filing and a man jumps one of his claims. Jones kills the man and
  is jailed. Until he is acquitted the girl watches over his interests,
  but afterward he becomes infatuated with an eastern woman, follows her
  to New York and there pursues a round of dissipation and seriously
  involves himself in disastrous stock speculation. In the meanwhile,
  the fault in his mining claim once more crops up in Arizona. This the
  girl uses to advantage in bringing him to his senses.”—Springf’d
  Republican

  “The story is vigorously written, as beseems its subject, and will
  especially appeal to those acquainted with mining manipulations.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:274 Jl 22 ‘17 120w

  “It is a breezy story of its kind, and its rapid action creates a high
  degree of interest.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 220w


=COOLIDGE, LOUIS ARTHUR.= Ulysses S. Grant. il *$2 (1c) Houghton 17-4331

  “No man who ever gained enduring fame was more the sport of chance
  than Grant,” says his biographer. “No character in history has
  achieved supreme success in war or the supreme reward of politics who
  owed less to his own ambition or design. ... He was the child of
  splendid opportunities which came to him unsought, for which he never
  seemed to care, and which he met with calm assurance of his own
  capacity.” It is a well-written work based on trustworthy sources and
  it treats adequately of what the author calls Grant’s two distinct
  careers, devoting more space than is usual to Grant’s presidency.

  “Mr Coolidge has used the best books relating to the subject, and
  particularly everything personally relating to Grant, except the
  material in the Civil war records. He has not, however, familiarized
  himself with recent monographic literature, or with the economic and
  social movements of the time, which emphatically influenced Grant’s
  career, although they left his personality untouched. ... He seems
  also not to possess a sufficient background of military knowledge to
  give force to his military criticism. Grant, however, both man and
  boy, by quotation and incident, stands out more clearly than in any
  previous account. ... The study of Grant in some respects is apt to
  prove final.” C. R. Fish

       + =Am Hist R= 22:885 Jl ‘17 1150w

  “General King and Mr Edmonds devote but a small portion of their books
  to Grant’s life after the close of the Civil war. While not an
  absolutely necessary biography, would be of use as viewing Grant from
  this angle.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:351 My ‘17

  “The more important and distinctive part of Mr Coolidge’s work lies in
  the last third of it. ... Scant justice is done to the character of
  Carl Schurz in this review of Grant’s life. ... Mr Coolidge’s book
  fails to achieve its evident purpose to set Grant among the few great
  presidents; it was not needed to place him among the country’s
  greatest soldiers.” H. S. K.

         =Boston Transcript= p8 F 7 ‘17 900w

  “Mr Coolidge presents an informing and, on the whole, judicial account
  of Grant’s presidency. The student of our history knows that this is
  no easy task. One of the best features of this excellent biography is
  the liberal quotation from Grant’s letters and state papers, written
  in that simple and forceful style which proceeded from his integrity
  and strength of character.”

       + =Dial= 64:76 Ja 17 ‘18 630w

       + =Ind= 91:34 Jl 7 ‘17 60w

  “If it cannot be said that Mr Coolidge’s biography altogether explains
  the man Grant and his career, ... he has nevertheless narrated the
  events of a difficult historical period with a skill which gives to
  the present generation a rapid and comprehensive account of much with
  which it should be acquainted, while older persons familiar with the
  story can read it once more with renewed interest.”

 *     + =Nation= 104:759 Je 28 ‘17 1350w

  “The biography, while it embodies in quotation or paraphrase all that
  is most significant in Grant’s narrative, has abundant freshness and
  vitality of its own: it is written with more than a touch of
  eloquence. Not merely because of its fullness and accuracy, but also
  through its literary qualities—its virility and incisiveness—it is not
  unworthy to stand beside the ‘Memoirs’ as a companion piece.”

       + =No Am= 205:803 My ‘17 1150w

  “It comes just short of 600 pages, as long as a one volume biography
  can afford to be, and a study of its proportions reveals good judgment
  on the part of the author. ... The value of the volume is enhanced by
  the portraits, seven of Grant alone, one in a group of officers: all
  but one of these are from the collection of Frederick Hill Meserve of
  New York and some of them have not hitherto been published. Five of
  them are of the soldier, one of the president, two of the veteran.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 20 ‘17 430w


=COOMARASWAMY, ANANDA KENTISH.= Buddha and the gospel of Buddhism. il
*$3.75 (3½c) Putnam 294 A16-1519

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:240 Mr ‘17

  “There is nothing scholarly about this book; as a contribution to
  scientific knowledge, it is nil. Its accounts of the legendary life of
  Gautama and his teaching, the discussions of the contemporary
  religious systems of India and of the later developments of Buddhism,
  as well as the concluding chapters on Buddhist art, are all a
  hotch-potch of quotations from modern scholars. ... If one wishes to
  get a general view of Buddhism, he will do better to turn to any
  popular manual, say the one by Mrs Rhys Davids in the Home university
  library, which is far better than the present work, and only costs
  one-seventh as much. ... The book is confessedly a work of propaganda.
  As an argument for Buddhism, it is not particularly convincing.”

       — =Dial= 62:405 My 3 ‘17 750w

  “We have many expositions of Buddhism, but few possess either the
  charm or the forcefulness of this.”

       + =Lit D= 54:913 Mr 31 ‘17 320w

  “This book, dealing, as it does, very largely with metaphysical
  speculations, is, of course, not very easy reading. But the author’s
  style is admirably clear. It is illustrated with a number of fine
  plates, some in color, others in black and white.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:357 S 23 ‘17 500w

         =St Louis= 15:47 F ‘17

  “The author’s previous work and his peculiar fitness to write
  authoritatively on this subject should go far to recommend this book
  for serious consideration by all students of the Buddhist religion.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 12 ‘17 300w


=COOPER, CLAYTON SEDGWICK.= Brazilians and their country. il *$3.50 (3c)
Stokes 918.1 17-29767

  The writer contends that in a period when territorial barriers are
  being so rapidly dissolved and when national and social conditions are
  being so deeply stirred by the greatest human conflict of all ages,
  isolation and localism are no longer possible for any thoughtful
  person. He offers this contention as an apologia for a North
  American’s presumption in writing about a South American people.
  Contents: Mental hospitality; Brazilian traits; Portugal and Brazil;
  The Brazilian empire; The orientalism of Brazil; Republican
  government; A leviathan country; Education; Brazilian home life; The
  triumph of the engineer; Seeing Rio de Janeiro by tramway; Electric
  energy transforming Brazil; The racial melting pot; In the land of the
  Paulistas; The awakening of southern Brazil; Trade and transportation;
  Outdoor sports and lotteries; Rio de Janeiro, city of enchantment;
  Bahia, old and bizarre; Paranagua; Pernambuco and Central Brazil; Para
  and the rubber workers of the Amazon; The Brazilian Indian; Languages,
  libraries and literature; Brazil’s army and navy; The Latin American
  view of North Americans; The newspaper as an international medium;
  Brazil’s tomorrow.

  “We have as a result a history with science, observation and
  experience combined in a really valuable volume.” T: Walsh

       + =Bookm= 46:606 Ja ‘18 110w

  “The frequent comparisons between North American and South American
  ways of looking at life and of carrying on the business of living are
  always interesting and ought to prove useful to all business men,
  especially young men, who hope to enter into trade relations with
  South America.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 360w

  “Exceptional among serious descriptive works in being readable as well
  as full of useful information. A business man with South American
  trade in the back of his mind might well invest in this book. It gives
  a striking picture of our great southern neighbor and ally.”

       + =Outlook= 117:519 N 28 ‘17 50w

       + =R of Rs= 57:219 F ‘18 60w


=COOPER, ELIZABETH (MRS CLAYTON SEDGWICK COOPER).= Heart of O Sono San.
il *$1.75 (3½c) Stokes 17-28073

  The heart of O Sono San is not only the heart of every Japanese girl,
  but the heart of woman the world over. The customs, the ceremonies,
  the superstitions and traditions that dominate the environment in
  which O Sono San is reared are those which now stifle, now strangely
  quicken the development of Japanese women. From babyhood to motherhood
  we follow her. In her maturity when she gives her boy to her country,
  while she lives thru the uncertainties and terrors of the struggle for
  Japan’s life, when her boy falls serving his country, she rallies from
  the staggering blow with the heroism that is no more Japanese than
  French, English, German or American. It is the old Spartan heroism of
  universal womanhood. The illustrations are excellent reproductions in
  duo tone from photographs.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:130 Ja ‘18

  “The author’s ‘The lady of the Chinese court yard’ was an interesting
  piece of work. It was brilliant, but not so fine as ‘The heart of O
  Sono San,’ because the latter book possesses rare ethical and
  spiritual beauty.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:578 D 30 ‘17 770w

  “If the illustrations do not always illustrate the accompanying text,
  they are in themselves exquisite. The book is worth owning.”

       + =Outlook= 117:510 N 28 ‘17 50w


=COOPER, JAMES A.= Cap’n Abe, storekeeper; a story of Cape Cod. il
*$1.25 (1½c) Sully & Kleinteich 17-14190

  Louise Grayling decides suddenly to spend the summer on Cape Cod with
  an uncle she has never seen, Cap’n Abram Silt. She finds Cap’n Abe to
  be a mild and peaceful old gentleman who for many years has
  entertained his neighbors with tales of the wild adventures of his
  seafaring brother, Cap’n Amazon. Louise has never heard of this
  brother and is amazed to learn that she has another uncle. There are
  others, too, who have begun to express polite doubt as to his
  existence. So to silence these doubters, Cap’n Abram arranges for the
  appearance of Cap’n Amazon. His own disappearance is coincident with
  the arrival of the swarthy-skinned, black-haired, red-turbaned seaman
  who can be no other than the legendary captain. The village accepts
  the stranger at his face value but is sorely puzzled to know what has
  become of the gentle Cap’n Abe. The reader will anticipate Louise in
  guessing the secret, but the curious villagers are kept in doubt for
  some time.

       + =A L A Bkl= 11:26 O ‘17

  “Mr Cooper is to be credited with some ingenuity of plot and with
  holding concealed until almost the closing chapter a climax which can
  fairly claim originality. ... There is a conventional love romance in
  the book.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 250w

  “If your last trip to the Cape has lost any of that delicious odor of
  clams and seaweed that clung even to your shoelaces, you can get a new
  whiff of it here, with a great deal of pleasure.”

       + =Dial= 63:354 O 11 ‘17 100w

  “The sea and the seafolk give the breezy atmosphere which makes it
  pleasant reading for a summer’s day.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:258 Jl 8 ‘17 130w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 220w


=COOPER, LANE=, ed. Concordance to the works of Horace. pa $7 Carnegie
inst. 874 16-20920

  “With this monumental volume a great labor of love on the part of the
  professor of the English language and literature in Cornell university
  has been finished, and a new and advanced position in the progress of
  classical scholarship has been gained. ... The text on which the
  ‘Concordance’ is based is that of Vollmer’s ‘Editio maior’ of 1912.
  Contrary to the usual practice, Mr Cooper has maintained a purely
  alphabetical sequence in the arrangement of Horatian forms, as, for
  instance, ‘sum, eram, esse, fui,’ etc., rather than listing all these
  under the basis of ‘sum’ or ‘esse.’ The advantage of this plan is that
  the student can at once detect the presence or absence of any given
  form in Horace. The work is a concordance and not a mere index. Each
  word is quoted in connection with a whole line (or more if necessary)
  of its context, which makes it possible, not only instantly to
  identify the passage, but also to study the word or phrase in question
  without turning it up in the original text. ... Mr Cooper has issued
  with the ‘Concordance,’ for the benefit of those engaged in a similar
  task, a list of instructions for preparing the slips used in the
  compilation of this great work.”—Class J

  “We, who up to date have had no index to Horace except those of the
  Zangemeister-Bentley type, works ill printed and out of print at that,
  will have constant cause for gratitude to Mr Lane and to his
  ‘Maecenas,’ the Carnegie institute of Washington, for his scholarly,
  handsome, and entirely usable volume. It is a royal octavo, on heavy
  durable paper, printed with type unusually large and clear for such a
  work.” F. J. Miller

       + =Class J= 63:609 Je ‘17 530w

  “To review a concordance exhaustively one must have thumbed it in long
  service. I have tested this one only by rapid reading of a hundred
  pages selected at random. I have observed no misprints and no
  instances of unintelligent or misleading delimitation of the excerpts.
  They are always so made as to indicate sufficiently the metrical, the
  grammatical, and the substantive context. ... An interesting page of
  the preface describes the method by which the forty-five thousand
  slips were prepared by eighteen collaborators.” Paul Shorey

       + =Class Philol= 12:311 Jl ‘17 450w


=COOPER, LANE=, ed. Greek genius and its influence. *$3.50 (2½c) Yale
univ. press 913.38 17-29847

  Select essays and extracts that interpret the life and genius of
  classic Greece. The work aims to supply “a part of the necessary
  background for the study of Greek and Latin masterpieces, ... and to
  stimulate and rectify the comparison of ancient with modern
  literature.” The characterizations of the Greek race which are
  assembled here have special interest for students of literature, and
  the writer hopes, for the geographer and anthropologist. A penetrating
  study of the traits of the Greek race, at its best, furnishes an
  introduction to the volume. He finds the Greek the most versatile and
  evenly developed of any race nature has brought forth; they were
  religious and intellectual; remarkable was their scientific interest
  in human conduct. The writer, who is professor of the English language
  and literature in Cornell university, offers the volume as a stimulus
  to the study of standard English translations of the classics.

  “Certainly the reading is good reading, for the whole two hundred odd
  pages. Only—and one must ask it—why isn’t it edited?” H. B. Alexander

     + — =Dial= 64:63 Ja 17 ‘18 1250w

  “While this book lacks the unity that a single authorship would
  compel, it is none the less abundant in interest and in wisdom.”

       + =Educ R= 55:78 Ja ‘18 80w


=COOPER, LENNA FRANCES.= How to cut food costs. il 75c Good health pub.
641 17-19175

  “In this little book, the director of the Battle Creek sanitarium
  school of home economics gives a popular explanation of a balanced
  diet and provides a guide to the selection of low cost foods. It
  contains a large number of recipes and a list of economical menus for
  ten days. The seasonal factor in food economy is brought out, and the
  part played in cost by transportation and selling charges illustrated
  by telling examples. The emphasis is laid on wise buying rather than
  waste in the kitchen which, so far as working class households are
  concerned, is apt to be exaggerated by the critics.”—Survey

         =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 40w

       + =Ind= 91:353 S 1 ‘17 70w

  “The book closes with a complete bibliography on kindred subjects.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 140w

  “Though this book cannot take the place of verbal instruction and
  practical demonstration in the education of the less educated
  housewives, it may be recommended as a trustworthy manual for those
  already interested in the subject.” B. L.

       + =Survey= 39:73 O 20 ‘17 130w


=COPPING, ARTHUR E.= Souls in khaki; with a foreword by General Bramwell
Booth. *$1 (2c) Doran 940.91 17-17990

  “Mr Copping’s book presents a series of pictures of his personal
  investigations into spiritual experiences and sources of heroism in
  the English army. [With the assistance of the War office and the
  Salvation army] he visited the training camps in England, went to
  France, tarried in the hospitals, went through the trenches, was under
  fire, talked with numberless soldiers, whole and wounded, spent much
  time in the Salvation army huts, and everywhere made it his chief
  purpose to find out what quality it is in the British soldier that
  enables him to face calmly and smilingly the horrors and the perils of
  battle. It is his conclusion that at the front ‘the spirit is supreme
  and the flesh subordinate,’ and he bears witness to what so many other
  observers have noted, the reality of religious faith among the
  soldiers.”—N Y Times

         =Ath= p420 Ag ‘17 100w

  “In spite of the incessant and aggravating recurrence of
  adjectives—‘piteous’ seems to appear upon every other page—the writer
  has achieved a very readable war book and one that ought to find a
  place in the libraries of our Sunday schools.”

     + — =Bib World= 50:375 D ‘17 380w

  “Chatty and interesting but marred by occasional sentimentality.”

     + — =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 40w

  “It is a chatty and very readable little book and shows in a graphic
  way how spirit can rise above material conditions and make them
  contribute to its own good, no matter how abhorrent they may be. And
  that is something that ought, just now, when our own men are soon to
  be in the trenches, to be a consoling message to Americans.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:261 Jl 15 ‘17 330w

  “The book is full of stirring anecdotes of heroism and exalted
  Christian service. It is well put together and is free from any
  suspicion of special pleading. Mr Copping has done his best to get at
  the facts. His material is fresh and, in the main, convincing.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ag 1 ‘17 280w


=CORBETT, JULIAN STAFFORD.= England in the Mediterranean [1603-1713]. 2d
ed 2v *$5 Longmans 942.06

  “‘Once to grasp the Mediterranean point of view is to be dominated by
  its fascination,’ wrote Julian S. Corbett a dozen years ago in the
  preface to his admirable work on ‘England in the Mediterranean,
  1603-1713.’ He went on to give the first satisfactory account of that
  important bit of English naval and political history by which England
  first established her sea-power within the Pillars of Hercules,
  occupied for a while Tangier, and finally fixed her unshakable hold on
  the Rock of Gibraltar.”—Nation

  “Today the Mediterranean is more than ever the ‘Keyboard of Europe,’
  and the history of the seventeenth century strategists who secured it
  for England must always be of deep historic interest. Some of the
  episodes discussed in the book are ‘Sir Walter Raleigh,’ ‘England and
  the Venice conspiracy,’ ‘The navy under James I,’ ‘The Spanish
  succession,’ ‘Marlborough and the navy,’ and ‘The congress of
  Utrecht.’”

       + =Cath World= 105:539 Jl ‘17 320w

       + =Ind= 91:187 Ag 4 ‘17 40w

  “With unusual success he has kept the complicated politics of the
  period in close relation to the naval history. With their readable
  style and their sense of the romance of the sea in its embodiment in
  English sea-fighters, Mr Corbett’s volumes are again welcome.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1428 My 12 ‘17 280w

  “The great war, which has again centered men’s minds on England’s
  sea-power and her position in the Mediterranean, has called forth a
  second edition of Professor Corbett’s authoritative story of those
  small beginnings in the seventeenth century. It is reprinted in
  smaller format, but otherwise there is no change from the first
  edition.”

       + =Nation= 104:553 My 3 ‘17 140w


=CORBETT-SMITH, ARTHUR.= Retreat from Mons. il *3s 6d Cassell & co.,
London 940.91 (Eng ed 16-22253)

  “The book deals with Sir Horace Smith-Dorrien’s corps more than with
  Sir Douglas Haig’s, and even on its own ground does not attempt a
  connected narrative. It gives us specimen episodes in the fighting;
  but these are so well chosen that they do in effect convey to us an
  accurate idea of what the whole strategical issue was.” (Spec) “Much
  of the book is anecdote: stories of heroism; stories of the
  irrepressible humor of the British soldier; stories of the capture and
  summary execution of German spies.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) On p.
  xi-xvi the roll of honour of the First expeditionary force is given.

  “He is particularly skilful in describing individual feats and
  incidents.”

       + =Ath= p486 O ‘16 40w

  “If we were asked how to get the best idea of the early fighting by
  our small but immortal Expeditionary force, we would say: Read Lord
  Ernest Hamilton’s book, ‘The first seven divisions,’ for the facts,
  and Major Corbett-Smith’s book, ‘The retreat from Mons,’ for the
  spirit.”

       + =Spec= 117:585 N 11 ‘16 1800w

  “He gives us one of the most graphic accounts which we have read of
  the German mass attacks at Mons.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p471 O 5 ‘16 900w


=CORBIN, THOMAS W.= Marvels of scientific invention. (Marvels ser.) il
*$1.25 Lippincott 608 17-4604

  “Some of the ‘Marvels of scientific invention’ are collected in this
  interesting account by Thomas W. Corbin. The subjects include guns,
  torpedoes, the use of high explosives on farms, submarines, protection
  in mines, smelting, freezing, color photography, and electrical
  testing. These inventions and their uses are told in a pleasant
  fashion and their scientific aspects are described accurately in
  non-technical language.”—Nation

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:336 My ‘17

         =Nation= 104:346 Mr 22 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:189 D ‘16

         =St Louis= 15:363 O ‘17 30w

  “Mr Corbin’s book is briefer than Mr Talbot’s, and covers a smaller
  range. On the other hand, it has an index, and it goes more fully into
  the chemistry and science of the subject.”

         =Sat R= 122:sup10 D 9 ‘16 150w

  “On the whole Mr Thomas W. Corbin achieves considerable success. But
  he is not entirely free from mistakes in fact.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p612 D 14 ‘16 120w

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:154 My ‘17 30w


=CORCORAN, TIMOTHY=, comp. State policy in Irish education, A. D. 1536
to 1816; exemplified in documents collected from lectures to
postgraduate classes. *$2 Longmans (Eng ed E17-153)

  “The professor of education in the National university has printed a
  series of documents illustrating the chequered history of Irish
  education, hampered for centuries by racial, linguistic, and religious
  differences. The first of them is Henry VIII’s admonition to Galway
  ‘that every inhabitaunt within the saide towne indevor theym selfe to
  speke Englyshe,’ and it is characteristic. ... Dr Corcoran’s
  historical introduction, written from the Roman Catholic standpoint,
  is instructive, but the documents tell their own tale.”—Spec

       + =Educ R= 54:95 Je ‘17 70w

  “It has been necessary to point out that Dr Corcoran mutilates or
  omits important documents—a practice which might be further
  illustrated from this book. But, notwithstanding this, all students of
  Irish history will be grateful for what he has given them. To much of
  it, no doubt, the criticism which has been made does not apply.” E.

 *   + – =Eng Hist R= 32:309 Ap ‘17 650w

         =Spec= 117:sup533 N 4 ‘16 140w


=CORIAT, ISADOR HENRY.= What is psychoanalysis? *75c (5½c) Moffat 131
17-10883

  This little book consists of questions and answers on psychoanalysis.
  Such general questions as, What is psychoanalysis? Where and under
  what conditions did it originate? Can psychoanalysis be harmful? What
  is the cause of certain failures in psychoanalysis? are answered
  together with many more specific questions relating to definite
  neurotic ills. The author is first assistant visiting physician for
  diseases of the nervous system, Boston city hospital, and he has
  written other books on “Abnormal psychology,” “The meaning of dreams,”
  etc.

  “A straightforward clear exposition of the general procedure of
  psychoanalysis and of the technical terms that have arisen in
  connection with it.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 12 ‘17 470w

       + =Ind= 91:512 S 29 ‘17 40w

  “Dr Coriat answers questions that have been in the minds of many
  persons. All this information is presented in simple terms quite
  within the understanding of persons of ordinary intelligence.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:432 O 21 ‘17 60w


=CORKERY, DANIEL.= Munster twilight. *$1 (2c) Stokes

  A collection of Irish tales possessing all of the qualities we have
  now come to associate with things Irish, mysticism, pathos, poetry and
  humor of the sort that is more grim than jovial. Six of the stories
  are grouped together under the title The cobbler’s den. They are the
  stories drawn from the reminiscences of a group of cronies who come
  together nightly in the cobbler’s shop.

         =N Y Times= 22:202 My 20 ‘17 270w

  “Whether he has been influenced by the study of Gorky and others of
  this violently depressing school of realists we cannot say. It may be
  merely an unconscious convergence, but the resemblance is sufficiently
  striking. ... Mr Corkery has put nearly all his gloom in the van, a
  method to be deprecated on prudential grounds, for while it may
  impress the critic who admires strong meat, it is apt to choke off the
  plain and gentle reader, especially at the present time. But we
  recommend the reader to persevere, for he will be rewarded.”

     + — =Spec= 118:109 Ja 27 ‘17 1200w

  “Not all of these stories are violent or harshly humorous. Some are
  warm and tender, with a deep, queer insight into the hearts of old and
  gentle and afflicted people.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p19 Ja 11 ‘17 500w


=CORNELL, ERA.= Above Cayuga’s waters; comp. by the editors of the Class
of 1917. il $1 Cornell era, Ithaca, N. Y. 378 16-19647

  A selection of articles and poems that have appeared in the Cornell
  Era since its founding in 1868 to the present day. It has been the
  policy of the magazine to obtain for publication articles by prominent
  men on all phases of college life. “As a result,” says the preface,
  “the bound copies of the Era, covering nearly fifty years, are a
  storehouse of articles valuable for all who may be interested in that
  wonderful phenomenon, the American university.” With few exceptions
  the authors of the selections are either Cornell graduates or members
  of the Cornell faculty. Among those represented are Andrew D. White,
  Goldwin Smith, David Starr Jordan, Hugh Black, Arthur Brisbane, Norman
  Hapgood, Dana Burnet, Liberty Hyde Bailey, and Jacob Gould Schurman.

  “This little book will have interest not only for all Cornellians,
  graduate as well as undergraduate, but also for many others who busy
  their minds much or occasionally with the problems of student life and
  the relations between that life and the world life.”

       + =N Y Times= 21:576 D 31 ‘16 550w

  “The book has little general appeal, but is valuable to students
  because of its treatment of their problems, and to Cornell men because
  of the memories it preserves.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 200w


=COSMOS, pseud.= Basis of durable peace. *50c (1c) Scribner 940.91
17-3465

  A series of articles written for the New York Times in November and
  December, 1916. As a starting point the author examines statements at
  that time recently made by the German chancellor and the British prime
  minister. Finding the two statements strikingly similar in outward
  appearance, he discusses the meaning of such expressions as “rights of
  small nations,” “freedom of the seas,” etc., from both the German and
  the British points of view. He discusses further the principles of the
  new international order that may be established after the war and the
  place of the United States in it. Victory for the Allies is the first
  essential for a durable peace. The second is the stamping out of the
  military ideal, not in Prussia alone, but in all the countries of the
  world. “The spirit and the point of view which manifest themselves in
  militarism, in the subordination of civil to military authority and
  policy, and in the setting of right below might, must be driven out of
  the hearts and minds of men. ... The basis of sound international
  policy will be found in sound domestic policy, and in sympathy with
  equally sound domestic policies in other lands.”

  “The writer who offers his work under the title of Cosmos, and who is
  undoubtedly ex-President William H. Taft, has given us probably the
  sanest discussion of the terms of peace that the nations must agree
  upon at the close of the war. The articles show sound judgment and as
  far as the settlement of the war is concerned, great practicability.”

       + =Cath World= 106:111 O ‘17 250w

  “Much information clearly and briefly given.”

       + =Ind= 89:362 F 26 ‘17 40w

       + =N Y Times= 22:29 Ja 28 ‘17 800w

         =Pratt= p36 Jl ‘17 40w

  “One of the ablest expositions of the subject that has appeared in
  small compass. Much less technical than Lafontaine’s ‘The great
  solution.’” L. A. Mead

       + =Survey= 38:553 S 22 ‘17 290w


=COULT, MARGARET=, ed. Letters from many pens. (Macmillan’s pocket
American and English classics) *25c Macmillan 826 17-7948

  “Miss Coult has followed a plan of her own in selecting the letters,
  and her collection is variously lively, informing and inspiring. It is
  an admirable book for use in schools. ... There is a group devoted to
  chat about home matters, another group of letters from young people to
  their elders and another of letters from grown people to children
  (including some of Phillips Brooks’s and Lewis Carroll’s), a group of
  letters addressed to strangers, a long collection of sketches from
  many lands, a section about tastes and a group of letters expressing
  emotions. A capital group is that of ‘Other times, other manners,’
  which runs from classical times through the 18th century.”—Springf’d
  Republican

  “While the educational use of the work is perhaps most important, many
  persons will find it profitable and delightful for casual reading.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 My 18 ‘17 190w


=COUPERUS, LOUIS MARIE ANNE.= Twilight of the souls; tr. by Alexander
Teixeira de Mattos. *$1.50 (2½c) Dodd 17-25859

  This is the third of a series of four novels, “The book of the small
  souls.” It carries on the story of the various branches of the Van
  Lowe family. Ernst becomes temporarily deranged, Gerrit, the “healthy
  brute” of a soldier, who figures largely in this volume, has a severe
  illness; suffering and death come also to other of the Van Lowes, and
  the “family group” that “Mamma” van Lowe has tried so hard to hold
  together, seems to be breaking up. Constance, who, in the two
  preceding volumes, has been passing through a period of spiritual
  evolution, and has reached “the happiness of accepting one’s own
  smallness ... and of not being angry and bitter because of all the
  mistakes ... and of being grateful for what is beautiful and clear and
  true,” has a bitter disappointment when her son, Adriaan, tells her
  that he cannot carry out his parents’ long cherished plan and enter
  the diplomatic service, because he has become absolutely convinced
  that he should be a doctor. But the mother understands, forces down
  her disappointment and encourages her boy to follow his deepest
  conviction.

  “It is a depressing chapter in the family history, yet not without its
  glimmer of happier light. Constance sees it as that atom, that ‘grain
  of absolute truth and reality’ which even small souls may possess, and
  may impart to others.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:488 D ‘17 600w

  “The general tone is pessimistic but it is remarkable in its human
  sympathy and has touches of fine idealism.”

       + =Cleveland= p2 Ja ‘18 150w

  “In ‘The twilight of the souls’ Mr De Mattos translates with his
  accustomed skill the third of those linked ‘Books of the small souls’
  in which the Dutch realist Couperus has embodied so searching and
  sympathetic an interpretation of human nature and of modern life.”

       + =Nation= 105:514 N 8 ‘17 350w

  “Among the three volumes of the series which have now appeared, this,
  the third, ranks second in merit, above ‘The later life’ and below the
  ‘Small souls.’ This because, while very much better in every way than
  the former, it has less variety than ‘Small souls’ and less of
  inevitability.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:446 N 4 ‘17 1050w


=COURVILLE, E. H.=, comp. Autograph prices current. *25s E. H.
Courville, 25 Rumsey Road, Brixton, London, S. W. 017

  “The records in the volume are stated to have been extracted from the
  catalogues of about sixty-five days’ sales, and to represent a sum of
  more than £35,000. Among the entries we notice autograph letters of
  Rossetti, Swinburne, Sir Walter Scott, Samuel Johnson, R. L.
  Stevenson, Louis XIV, Napoleon, Washington, and others. ... Numerous
  quotations from letters are embodied in the text.” (Ath) The
  compilation is to be published annually and is “a complete
  alphabetical and chronological record of all autograph letters,
  documents, and manuscripts, sold by auction in London, with the date
  and place of sale, name of purchaser, and price of each lot: together
  with a comprehensive reference index.” (Sub-title). Sales from August,
  1914 to July, 1916, inclusive, are comprised in this first issue.

       + =Ath= p425 S ‘16 140w

  “His scholarly catalogue will be welcomed by the student, the
  collector, and the dealer alike.”

       + =Spec= 117:419 O 7 ‘16 190w

  “On every page of this carefully edited volume there is something to
  arrest the attention, and we can only express the hope that it may
  become as hardy and as vigorous an annual as ‘Book prices current.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p428 S 7 ‘16 950w


=COUSINS, FRANK, and RILEY, PHIL M.= Wood-carver of Salem; Samuel
McIntire, his life and work. il *$7.50 Little 724.9 16-23955

  “‘The wood-carver of Salem’ is a well-deserved tribute to Samuel
  McIntire, of Salem, whose distinction as an architect and designer, as
  well as a craftsman, is preserved in many of the stately houses of the
  third colonial period that still adorn the ancient streets of
  Salem. ... McIntire passed his whole life and did all his work in
  Salem, never having had an opportunity to see the productions of Wren
  and other contemporary English architects. Yet he attained high rank
  as a designer and, in the opinion of the authors of this book, he was
  our foremost colonial architect of domestic buildings.”—R of Rs

  “To anyone that loves New England and is familiar with its widespread
  excellence of old architecture such a book as ‘The wood-carver of
  Salem’ affords pleasant entertainment. ... It is a book to read beside
  a fireplace such as those fireplaces that it pictures and describes.”
  W. A. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 27 ‘16 400w

       + =Cleveland= p80 Je ‘17 30w

  “A plentiful index and 127 plates give added importance to a work that
  is replete with vital interest.”

       + =Int Studio= 60:95 Ja ‘17 200w

  “It appears as a limited edition, carefully and elaborately prepared.”

       + =Lit D= 54:567 Mr 3 ‘17 200w

         =R of Rs= 55:105 Ja ‘17 150w


=COX, KENYON.= Concerning painting; considerations theoretical and
historical. il *$1.75 (4c) Scribner 750 17-24869

  “This book is the result of such thinking as I have been able to do on
  my own art of painting. It divides itself into three parts: the first
  is an inquiry into what painting essentially is and into the nature of
  its appeal to humanity; the second is an attempted account of what
  painting was in the golden age, from the beginning of the sixteenth
  century to nearly the end of the seventeenth; the third deals with
  some aspects of the painting of the more immediate past. Part first
  was originally given in the form of lectures at Union college. Parts
  second and third were delivered at Yale, in the Trowbridge course on
  the history of art, and at the Metropolitan museum and other
  institutions. The three chapters on ‘The golden age of painting’ have
  appeared in Scribner’s Magazine, and the other five in the Art World.”
  (Preface) There are thirty-two reproductions of typical works from the
  older and from contemporary artists.

  “The suggestions are clear and not too technical in form so that they
  will interest the intelligent layman as well as the student.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:83 D ‘17

  “I find the first division of the book, devoted to a general
  consideration of what painting is according to Cox, the most arresting
  part of the discussion: probably because it is most Cox, whereas the
  historical survey puts him in a vast field where the competitors are
  numerous.” R: Burton

       + =Bookm= 46:478 D ‘17 550w

  “Dr Cox elsewhere has not kept to himself his opinions regarding the
  vagaries of futurism, cubism and the other extreme manifestations of
  erratic individualism but he refrains from even recognizing in this
  book the existence of such a school or even mentioning the name of its
  votaries. He waxes quite enthusiastic over John La Farge, having
  evidently fallen under the sway of the personality of that brilliant
  genius.” N. H D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 O 27 ‘17 750w

       + =Cleveland= p136 D ‘17 10w

  “The eight essays are of unequal interest. Mr Cox has done nothing
  better than the two studies ‘Painting as an art of imitation’ and
  ‘Painting as an art of relation.’ ... There is a cleanness and
  trenchancy about this work which is beyond the range of any other
  American critic of art. Where Mr Cox’s admiration is fully aroused
  there is also a great sensitiveness. This quality Mr Cox keeps for his
  favorites. The rest get a rather schoolmasterly report.”

     + — =Nation= 105:545 N 15 ‘17 290w

  “If he wrote only of the technical side of his art he would be an
  absorbingly interesting author; but he is too much of an artist to
  stop with this. Not only the form but the meaning interests him, and
  he connects his comments on the detail of the workshop with
  observations on persons and schools and countries as catholic and
  sound and sincere as they are learned. ... His arguments have lost the
  bitterness that once diminished the force of their effect on his
  readers.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:417 O 21 ‘17 530w

       + =Outlook= 117:514 N 28 ‘17 50w

  “In his chapters on the Italian renaissance and the Venetian school,
  Mr Cox is at his best. His brief, crisp summing up of the four great
  masters, Da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raphael and Correggio, is luminous
  with clear, incisive judgments. ... It is in the third division of
  this work, devoted to certain aspects of 19th century painting, that
  we find Mr Cox somewhat disappointing. He has tried to crowd too much
  into inadequate space. ... Perhaps the most disappointing of all the
  essays is that relating to the mural painters.” F: T. Cooper

     + — =Pub W= 92:817 S 15 ‘17 1000w

  “The book is valuable to teachers and students for several excellent
  reasons: It is accurately informative, intelligently analytical, and
  stimulating to the cultivation of æsthetic conceptions that are in
  harmony with our ideals concerning the newer civilization that we hope
  to see emerge out of the present chaos of thought.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 17:226 Ja ‘18 300w


=COXON, MURIEL (HINE) (MRS SIDNEY COXON).= Autumn. *$1.40 (lc) Lane
17-9809

  After ten years of an unhappy marriage, Deirdre Caradoc thought that
  the best of life was over for her. She was midway in her thirties, she
  had no child, and her love for her husband was dead. She decides to
  separate from him, and takes a house in the country where she hopes
  for uninterrupted quiet. Here she makes two friends, a father and his
  young daughter, who become of momentous importance in her life.
  Between the man and herself a deep and sincere love comes to life, but
  the course of their future is influenced by the daughter, who, in
  falling in love with a married man older than herself, seems to be
  giving them a replica of their own situation.

  “This work carries the evidence of some originality. But the action
  does not progress with the desired celerity.”

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Ap 14 ‘17 220w

  “It has to do with several charming people who seem unable, either by
  sin or by virtue, to solve their problems practically, ethically or
  sentimentally. Puppets of circumstance are they, whose perfervid loves
  play havoc with them. One wishes that they were all set to earning
  their living.”

       — =Ind= 90:594 Je 30 ‘17 60w

  “If the closing chapters of ‘Autumn’ do not quite fulfill the promise
  of its earlier portion, the novel is, nevertheless, one of unusual
  merit. ... It has that nameless distinction which, for want of a
  better word, we term quality.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:136 Ap 15 ‘17 600w

         =Spec= 119:93 Jl 28 ‘17 20w

  “What one complains of chiefly is, first, that the main events of the
  story do not happen inevitably, but only because the author makes them
  happen, and that they are, therefore, unconvincing. One’s second
  ground of complaint is the author’s constant evasion.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p281 Je 14 ‘17 820w


=COXWELL, CHARLES FILLINGHAM.= Through Russia in war-time. il *$3.50
Scribner 914.7 (Eng ed 17-18477)

  “It was on May 22, 1915 that the author, an Englishman, sailed from
  New York for North Cape and Archangel.” (N Y Times) “He describes with
  full appreciation for the wonders of Russia his journey and the
  various cities and sections he visited. He entered at Archangel, and
  travelled from north to south and from east to west of Russia. Much
  space is given to Petrograd and Moscow. He describes Holy Kiev, Odessa
  with its busy life, the beauty of the Crimea, the antiquities of
  Kertch, the Cossack country, the wonderful Georgian military road over
  the Caucasus, as well as the less-known parts of Russia. At the end he
  passes through Finland and through the country of the Lapps.”—Boston
  Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:66 N ‘17

  “In spite of his limited Russian vocabulary and in spite of war-time
  restrictions, he nearly always manages to get into actual touch with
  the natives, and ultimately to persuade them to pose for him. The
  result is a collection of unconventional photographs which help to
  impress on the mind a vivid picture of all those who came within Mr
  Coxwell’s view.”

       + =Ath= p342 Jl ‘17 700w

  “An amusing account is given of the author’s difficulties at the
  outset with the Russian language.”

       + =Ath= p364 Jl ‘17 80w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 250w

  “Political Russia is of more vital interest than physical Russia; but
  at the moment when the fate of that nation seems to center in one
  city, it is not amiss to remember that Petrograd is one of the least
  representative cities of the new republic and that behind all its
  changes and its transitory emotions there lies the great mass of the
  Russian people, sturdy, industrious, and immovable. To consider them
  steadies one’s sense of proportion. Mr Coxwell’s book enables one so
  to consider them.”

       + =Dial= 63:276 S 27 ‘17 230w

  “The main impression it conveys is that the war in 1915 had hardly
  ruffled daily existence in the smaller Russian towns, and was little
  regarded in such important centres as Petrograd and Moscow.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:294 Ag 12 ‘17 480w

  “Mr Coxwell is almost a Pickwickian tourist—so simple-minded, so
  easily pleased, so little subjective in his observations, that he
  might seem to have just set out from Goswell street. But there the
  resemblance ends. Adventures crowded on Mr Pickwick at every turn, but
  not one befell Mr Coxwell. Mr Coxwell is happier, however, with his
  camera than with his pen.”

     – + =Sat R= 124:250 S 29 ‘17 350w

  “In the main, of course, the narrative is personal, but personal
  narratives may be of absorbing interest when the writer is an
  experienced traveler. Added value is given in the liberal space
  devoted to details of Russian life and customs and to historic
  incidents.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 6 ‘17 230w

  “No doubt students of Russian life will find nothing interesting in
  these pages and the book is not for those who wish to estimate
  political, economic, or military forces, or for those who look to
  Russia for spiritual guidance or inspiration. But it is for the
  not-too-serious tourist and those who are like the author in
  spirit. ... There is a slight misconception, perhaps, in the title of
  the book. It has little or nothing to do with the war, and does not
  describe special war conditions.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p268 Je 7 ‘17 1050w


=CRABB, GEORGE.= English synonymes. rev and enl ed *$1.25 Harper 424
17-10873

  The first edition of Crabb’s “English synonymes explained” was
  published one hundred years ago. The preface to this centennial
  edition says, “It is an exceptional tribute to Crabb’s scholarship
  that during an entire century his masterful work has continued to hold
  the regard of the English-speaking world, and that to-day it is
  consulted with probably more appreciation than ever before.” Of the
  changes and additions made for the new edition the preface says
  further, “Nothing has been eliminated from the master’s explanations
  of his chosen words, and his style of presentation has been followed
  as closely as intervening conditions would permit. The entire body of
  the original words and explanations has been supplemented by a large
  number of words with their applications that have grown into the
  language within recent years, besides many that came to have a deeper
  significance than before because of the great European war.” Another
  important feature of the new edition is a complete system of cross
  references. The work has an introduction by John H. Finley.

  “Revised and brought up to date by unnamed editors whose work, one
  cannot help feeling, is considerably inferior to that of the original
  author in natural feeling for words, in comprehension of philological
  niceties, and in insight into derived meanings.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 31 ‘17 430w


=CRAGIN, LAURA ELLA.= Sunday story hour. il *$1.25 (3c) Doran 372.6
17-13402

  The author has written these stories for Sunday telling, either at
  home or in the Sunday school. They are planned for the younger
  children and are grouped under the headings: Our Heavenly Father’s
  care; Our Heavenly Father’s protection; The loving care of Jesus;
  Prayer; The sabbath; Helpfulness; Kindness; Obedience; Easter;
  Thanksgiving; Christmas. Many of the stories were written for the
  Beginner’s leaflets issued by the Presbyterian Boards. Other books by
  the author are “Kindergarten stories for the Sunday school” and
  “Kindergarten Bible stories.”

  “The way in which the child is led to see how God is in his world
  makes the book especially fitting for Sunday reading, as it is
  designed to be.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 100w


=CRAIG, AUSTIN=, ed. Former Philippines thru foreign eyes. *$3 (3c)
Appleton 919.14 A17-1007

  This volume, edited by Professor Craig of the University of the
  Philippines, consists of a series of reprints of original documents
  and other out-of-print material bearing on the early history of the
  Philippines. Contents: Feodor Jagor’s travels in the Philippines; The
  state of the Philippines in 1810, by Thomas de Comyn; Manila and Sulu
  in 1842, by Charles Wilkes, U.S.N.; Manila in 1819, by John White,
  U.S.N.; The peopling of the Philippines, by Rudolf Virchow; People and
  prospects of the Philippines, by an English merchant, 1778, and a
  consul, 1878; Filipino merchants of the early 1890s, by F. Karuth. The
  volume was first published by the Philippine education company of
  Manila.

  “Taken together, these descriptions form an exceedingly valuable lot
  of material regarding the Philippines. Of them all, the first is the
  most valuable, because of the intimate touch it gives of conditions
  and its excellent descriptions. The translation, which was made
  especially for this work by a young German, one of the victims of the
  Japanese onslaught on Tsing Tau, is immensely improved over the
  defective English translation published in London in 1875. By choosing
  descriptions on the whole favorable to the Filipinos, Professor Craig
  has presented but one side of his thesis, although it must be
  confessed material on the other side is easily available to whoever
  wishes to study the question from other points of view.” J. A.
  Robertson

       + =Am Hist R= 23:197 O ‘17 900w

  “Only where there is special interest.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:442 Jl ‘17

  “A republication of valuable and rare documents which is intended to
  correct the wrong impressions in the minds of students, concerning the
  Filipino and his islands.” M. C. T.

       + =St Louis= 15:185 Je ‘17 20w


=CRAIG, AUSTIN, and BENITEZ, CONRADO.= Philippine progress prior to
1898. $1.25 Philippine education co., Manila 991.4 17-31047

  The purpose of this source book of Philippine history, prepared by two
  members of the faculty of the University of the Philippines, is “to
  supply a fairer view of Filipino participation and supplement the
  defective Spanish accounts.” The book consists of two parts. Part 1,
  The old Philippines’ industrial development, by Conrado Benitez, has
  chapters on: Agriculture and land-holding at the time of the discovery
  and conquest; Industries at the time of discovery and conquest; Trade
  and commerce at the time of discovery and conquest; Trade and
  commerce: the period of restriction; The 19th century and economic
  development. Part 2, The Filipinos’ part in the Philippines’ past,
  consists of documents and reprints, edited with introduction and notes
  by Austin Craig.


=CRAM, MILDRED.= Old seaport towns of the South. il *$2.50 (3½c) Dodd
917.5 17-28900

  The rain that falls in the first few chapters of this leisurely
  narrative dampens not at all the ardor of writer, illustrator and
  reader as they fare forth together on a journey southward from New
  York to Baltimore, Norfolk, Wilmington, Charleston, Savannah, St
  Augustine and Galveston. The writer is visiting the South of her
  parents for the first time—the South that had come to mean “the place
  of sun, chivalry, romance and Uncle Remus.” With freshness of outlook,
  therefore, the prominent points of interest are viewed. There is a
  good deal of history thrown in, some illuminating generalizations
  about social problems, the whole being interspersed with crisp dialog,
  clear description and entertaining comment. Good illustrations, the
  work of the author’s brother, accompany the text.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:91 D ‘17

  “She catches the spirit of the cities, Baltimore, Charleston, Norfolk,
  and others, with remarkable accuracy. ... ‘Old seaport towns of the
  South’ is a thoroughly delightful book. The publishers have issued it
  in most attractive form, making a feature of the unusual and striking
  illustrations.” A. M. Chase

       + =Bookm= 46:335 N ‘17 190w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 3 ‘17 600w

  “America is being discovered by its own people. The experiences and
  discoveries of one pair of explorers—brother and sister—are here
  related in sprightly detail, and the account is dressed by the
  publishers in the best product of the printing press. The historical
  facts woven into the narrative are at times somewhat mixed.”

     + — =Dial= 63:592 D 6 ‘17 280w

       + =Lit D= 55:39 D 8 ‘17 120w

  “She has brought together a great variety of bits of history,
  tradition, reminiscence, and description which make of each place that
  she visits a very interesting, attractive, and colorful picture.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:482 N 18 ‘17 100w


=CRAM, RALPH ADAMS.= Substance of Gothic. il *$1.50 (4½c) Jones,
Marshall 723.5 17-25630

  “I have called these lectures, given during the winter of 1916-17 in
  the Lowell institute course in Boston, ‘The substance of Gothic,’
  because in them an effort is made, though briefly and superficially,
  to deal with the development of Christian architecture from
  Charlemagne to Henry VIII, rather in relation to its substance than
  its accidents; to consider it as a definite and growing organism and
  as the exact and unescapable exponent of a system of life and thought
  antipodal to that of the modernism that began its final dissolution at
  the beginning of August A.D. 1914, rather than in the light of its
  accidents of form and ornament and details of structural design.”
  (Preface) The author devotes five pages of his preface to listing and
  characterizing non-technical, easily available books, written in
  English, for those who wish to follow the subject further.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:83 D ‘17

  “It is a truly eloquent book, and regarded as a piece of writing will
  give pleasure to the layman as a literary performance, quite aside
  from his interest in the theme or his agreement with the view
  presented.” R: Burton

       + =Bookm= 46:477 D ‘17 640w

  “In Mr Cram’s presentation of structural details we are given at last
  to realize how incomplete, how downright misleading has been the
  method which presented the material progress, and left altogether out
  of account the spiritual forces which made that progress possible. ...
  The importance of such critical method in this day and age is
  tremendous. ... He is pointing the way to a new understanding of the
  middle ages upon much more solid foundations. Beneath him is the
  support of such exhaustively scholarly works as Henry Osborn Taylor’s
  ‘The mediaeval mind,’ and of such penetrating analysis as has been
  made by Mr Henry Adams. ... Mr Cram is, on the other hand much
  inclined to treat the faults and the blemishes of the modern age as
  though they were the only things visible in all the recent centuries.
  In this view is much error.” J. E. K.

   + + — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 26 ‘17 1350w

  “The volume, though evidently the work of an accomplished and
  enthusiastic student of architecture, is by no means a dry text-book
  abounding in technicalities. Its chief appeal may be to the
  specialist, nevertheless it will be perused with profit and pleasure
  by every intelligent reader.”

       + =Cath World= 106:389 D ‘17 230w

  “Mr Cram writes not alone from the point of view of an ardent
  Gothicist, but from that of an ardent churchman as well, and this
  contributes both to the strength and to the weakness of his book—to
  its strength because he has so keen and constant a realization of the
  nobility and vitality of the essential spirit of Catholicism; to its
  weakness because all those who fail or have failed of that realization
  are to him either heretics, heathen, or pagans, bent on establishing
  the kingdom of Satan on earth.” Claude Bragdon

     + — =Dial= 63:517 N 22 ‘17 900w

         =R of Rs= 57:216 F ‘18 170w


=CRAM, RALPH ADAMS, and others.= Six lectures on architecture. il *$2
(6c) Univ. of Chicago press 720.4 17-4209

  This volume contains the Scammon lectures for 1915, the lectures
  delivered at the Art institute of Chicago as the eleventh series under
  the Scammon foundation. Contents: The beginnings of Gothic art, and
  The culmination of Gothic architecture, by Ralph Adams Cram;
  Principles of architectural composition and Modern architecture, by
  Thomas Hastings; Organic architecture and The language of form, by
  Claude Bragdon. There are forty-five illustrations.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:387 Je ‘17

  “Mr Bragdon’s first lecture, entitled ‘Organic architecture,’ is an
  unusually clear statement of the condition of modern architecture. ...
  His second lecture, on ‘The language of form,’ is a valuable and
  suggestive exposition of his views as to possible sources of new forms
  in art and ornament.” P. B. Wight

       + =Architectural Record= 41:370 Ap ‘17 1400w

  “Mr Cram’s two lectures, which it is rather hard to judge fairly, as
  he covers an immense field in a few pages, are admirably written. Mr
  Hastings’s two have some carelessnesses in style. ... There is a good
  deal of practical advice and of suggestive information in all six. The
  volume would have been improved had an index been added.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 14 ‘17 1050w

  “Stimulating discussion of conflicting ideals in American
  architecture.”

       + =Cleveland= p114 S ‘17 70w

  “Mr Cram summarizes the evolution of the characteristic features of
  Gothic construction in paragraphs bristling with names, dates, and
  technical terms. The effect is sufficiently cryptic even on the
  printed page. Yet the treatment, on the whole, is stimulating and
  suggestive. No one in the world to-day—certainly not in this
  country—is, perhaps, better qualified than Mr Cram to interpret the
  Gothic spirit. It can hardly be said that Mr Hastings presents a very
  strong brief for his cause.” W: A. Bradley

     + — =Dial= 63:110 Ag 16 ‘17 1050w

  “Well worth reading as examples of three wholly different attitudes
  and methods of approach to the subject. ... The minds of auditors who
  heard all six lectures must have been left at the end in a somewhat
  bewildered state, for the book is full of contentious and provocative
  suggestions. It is hardly milk for babes in architecture, but it is
  good reading for those who are already somewhat instructed in the
  subject, and may well set the mature architect to thinking.”

       + =Nation= 104:437 Ap 12 ‘17 420w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:75 My ‘17 30w

  “The doctors disagree, but it is the disagreement of living thought,
  and from the series of lectures the public receives a lively thrust
  toward the act of original thinking which is the desired result in all
  educational work.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:415 O 21 ‘17 400w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:316 Ap ‘17

         =Pratt= p29 O ‘17 50w

       + =Spec= 118:732 Je 30 ‘17 140w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 9 ‘17 290w


=CRANCH, CHRISTOPHER PEARSE.= Life and letters, [ed.] by his daughter,
Leonora Cranch Scott. il *$3.50 (3c) Houghton 17-8755

  Altho Christopher Pearse Cranch was born in Virginia, he was closely
  associated with the literary life of New England. As a young man he
  entered the Unitarian ministry, but left it after a time to follow an
  artist’s career. He devoted himself to landscape painting and wrote
  poetry for the Atlantic Monthly, the Dial and other papers of the
  time. He was the friend of Emerson, James Freeman Clarke, George
  William Curtis and other distinguished Americans and in his travels
  abroad he formed friendships with men of letters in Europe, among them
  Thackeray, and the Brownings. In this book his daughter presents a
  selection from his letters, joined together by extracts from an
  unpublished autobiography.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:399 Je ‘17

  “Christopher Pearse Cranch finds a place in many anthologies, and his
  books are on the shelves of numerous libraries, public and private,
  that preserve the relics of bygone literary accomplishment. ... It is
  regrettable that his daughter, despite the abundant material in her
  possession and her liberal use of it in this volume of ‘Life and
  letters,’ has thrown it together so carelessly, and has made no
  attempt, either in her own words or in the words of others, to tell a
  well-ordered and coherent story of his life. ... As a miscellany of
  incidents in the inconspicuous life of an American man of letters and
  leisure, Mrs Scott’s record of her father is valuable despite its
  incompleteness. ... As material for a biography, Mrs Scott’s volume
  will serve. It is also an excellent memorial tribute to a worthy
  life.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 24 ‘17 1450w

  “By far the most valuable part of the book is made up of the letters
  he received from others. Besides early notes from James Freeman Clarke
  and Emerson, there are several letters in Lowell’s happiest manner,
  several from the Brownings ... and many from W. W. Story and George
  William Curtis. A few, like those of Curtis from Berlin, are valuable
  for themselves; but most are of the sort that reveal the recipient as
  well as the author.”

       + =Dial= 63:69 Jl 19 ‘17 430w

  “His personality was well worth studying, but the greatest charm of
  the book lies in the intimate view we get of such friends as Curtis,
  James Russell Lowell, Mr and Mrs Browning, Ralph Waldo Emerson, W. W.
  Story, Margaret Fuller, and others famous in art, music, and
  literature. ... It is a very readable biography.”

       + =Lit D= 54:2007 Je 30 ‘17 180w

  “The reader who wishes to find a picture of the pale, reflected,
  undisturbed, and comfortable condition of American arts and letters of
  the period will do no better than to turn lightly the pages of this
  volume. But if he is looking for the impact upon a man of varied
  culture of the forces that were to shake artists, composers, and
  writers out of their traditional ease, he will turn away as from a
  sago pudding.”

     + — =Nation= 105:697 D 20 ‘17 440w

  “Mr Cranch was one of the most interesting Americans of the last
  generation.”

         =Outlook= 115:668 Ap 11 ‘17 30w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:525 Je ‘17 90w

         =Pratt= p47 O ‘17 30w

  “His relations with New England transcendentalism and with Emerson
  form an entertaining chapter of the book.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:667 Je ‘17 50w

  “If the material gathered in this volume had been thoroughly sifted
  and digested into a book of half the size, two objects would have been
  probably attained: We should have had a sufficiently detailed life of
  the poet, and his life would be likely to interest more readers. As it
  is, the volume is formidable because of its size and because of the
  method of presentation of its subject matter.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 15 ‘17 1600w


=CRANDALL, LEE SAUNDERS.= Pets; their history and care. il *$2 (2½c)
Holt 636 17-13515

  This book on pets and their care is divided into four sections:
  Mammals; Birds; Reptiles and batrachians; The aquarium. As this
  division will indicate, the term pet has been given a rather wide
  interpretation. The author says, “To give, in a single volume, full
  and efficient directions for the treatment of so many diverse
  creatures, means that the space devoted to each must be no greater
  than necessary. For this reason rare or particularly delicate members
  of the various groups have been excluded. ... On the other hand, many
  of the birds, such as the pheasants, cranes and waterfowl, cannot be
  considered as pets in the sense that they may be fondled, but they are
  widely kept for ornamental purposes, and their proper treatment is a
  matter often not well known.” (Preface) Theories of breeding are
  discussed in an appendix. There are many illustrations from
  photographs, a bibliography and index.

  “It covers about the same number of animals as Comstock and is,
  therefore, fuller in treatment than Verrill. Has fifteen more
  illustrations than Comstock and a general bibliography at the end of
  the book instead of the references for each animal discussed in
  Comstock.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:44 N ‘17

         =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 30w

         =N Y Times= 22:461 N 11 ‘17 70w

  “As an introduction to the practical knowledge of pets, Mr Crandall’s
  book will well serve. As assistant curator of birds in the New York
  zoological park he speaks with the weight of an authority behind
  him. ... There are nearly 100 excellent illustrations.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 230w


=CRANE, FRANK.=[2] Christmas and the year round. *$1 (2c) Lane 170.4
17-29490

  “Christmas means the supreme fact about life, namely: that it is
  joyful,” writes Dr Frank Crane in the first of these essays. Others in
  an equally optimistic vein follow. The art of quietness, Life an
  adventure, The man who keeps his word, Democracy, The postponement of
  life, The delusion of safety, are some of the titles.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 9 ‘18 100w

  “Dr Crane puts a great deal of common sense philosophy into his essays
  in a spirited, readable form and this newest product is packed with
  optimistic humanism and wisdom.”

       + =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 130w

  “He is always brisk, and the ideal of life to which he calls his
  readers is always democratic, independent, contented, and sturdy.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:564 D 16 ‘17 370w


=CRANE, FRANK.= Looking glass. *$1 (2c) Lane 170.4 17-13215

  A book of short essays on such subjects as: The secrecy of goodness;
  The art of being cheerful; The higher probabilities; Keeping young;
  Amusements; The fear of deciding; The new teacher; The theatre and
  morals; The immorality of fear; A consumer’s views on salesmanship;
  Democracy and organization, etc.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:423 Jl ‘17

  “Dr Crane’s devoted admirers will receive with joy a new contribution
  to his list of books. Like his other offerings, this volume is crammed
  with spicy essays in tabloid form.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 2 ‘17 190w

  “Brisk, wholesome, direct, this spicily served advice is all the
  better for not taking itself too seriously.”

       + =Ind= 90:517 Je 16 ‘17 40w

  “His short essays express, in terse phrase, the brisk American
  optimism. It is not mawkish or spineless; on the contrary, it is
  vigorously upstanding. But it is determined to see ‘good in
  everything.’ But we cannot all agree in finding cause for happiness in
  the ‘number of things’ of which the world is full today. And there is
  something more than irritation—there is something ghastly—in Dr
  Crane’s exuberant cry of all-inclusive gladness: ‘Thank God for now!’”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:278 Jl 29 ‘17 360w


=CRANE, UTLEY EDWIN.= Business law for business men. *$3.50 Winston 347
17-1500

  A work on business law, “covering all the states and territories in
  the Union, with abstracts of commercial law in every state and
  territory and legal forms for many transactions.” (Title-page) The
  author, a judge of the municipal court of Philadelphia, says,
  “Recognizing that the average business man has neither the opportunity
  nor inclination to pursue a systematic study of business law, this
  work has been specially prepared to meet the requirements of the busy
  man of affairs. Omission of any citation of authority and all legal
  technicalities has been for the purpose of rendering the work
  interesting as well as instructive.” Contents: Contracts;
  Partnerships; Corporations; Negotiable instruments; Real estate and
  conveyancing; Bankruptcy; Insurance; Common carriers; Patents;
  Trade-marks; Copyrights; Sales; Business crimes; Domestic relations;
  Building and loan associations; Architects and builders; Money;
  Executors and administrators; Constitutional law; Banks and banking.

  “It is a practical book for practical business. It will also be of
  ‘handy reference’ value to lawyers. It is easy to read and well
  arranged, so that the layman will have no difficulty in finding the
  information which he desires.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 18 ‘17 380w

  “One of the commendable features of the work is its national
  application. ... As an exposition of the legal principles involved in
  ordinary mercantile transactions, the work can be commended as
  sufficiently simple and untechnical to meet the requirements of the
  busy man of affairs.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 29 ‘17 130w


=CRANMER-BYNG, LAUNCELOT ALFRED=, tr. Feast of lanterns; rendered with
an introd. *80c Dutton 895 (Eng ed 17-6225)

  “In ‘The wisdom of the East series,’ edited by L. Cranmer-Byng, and Dr
  S. A. Kapadia, there is now published a treasure for students of
  poetry, ‘A feast of lanterns,’ translations from the work of twenty
  Chinese poets. The introduction explains the tenets of Chinese poetic
  art, their reverence and love for flowers, symbolism in poetry, and
  the lore of the dragon, one of the four spiritually endowed creatures
  of China. There are also interesting comments on the epochs of Chinese
  poetry, and on the great storehouse of verse that remains untranslated
  into western tongues.”—R of Rs

         =A L A Bkl= 14:14 O ‘17

       + =Ind= 91:78 Jl 14 ‘17 60w

  “The reader of these graceful relics of the thought of an alien race
  in by-gone centuries echoes the sentiment of Sir John Davis, quoted on
  the title-page of this volume, ‘As our gardens have already been
  indebted to China for a few choice flowers, who knows but our poetry
  may some day be under a similar obligation?’”

       + =Lit D= 54:1862 Je 16 ‘17 500w

       + =N Y Times= 22:290 Ag 5 ‘17 430w

       + =R of Rs= 56:105 Jl ‘17 90w


=CRAVATH, PAUL DRENNAN.= Great Britain’s part. *$1 (8c) Appleton 940.91
17-7951

  These “observations of an American visitor to the British army in
  France at the beginning of the third year of the war,” were written
  first for the New York Times. They are republished in the hope that
  they may “aid a few Americans to a better appreciation of the
  greatness of England’s achievements in the European war.” The author
  says, “The British people and press have so liberally exercised the
  Englishman’s inalienable right to abuse the government that we in
  America often hear more of England’s mistakes than of her
  achievements. As a result, there is, I find, real misapprehension
  among Americans as to England’s part in the war.”

       + =Cleveland= p82 Je ‘17 50w

       + =Dial= 63:212 S 13 ‘17 170w

  “Hardly more than a magazine article, Paul D. Cravath’s little book
  makes clear methods of organization and the way work is done behind
  the British lines.”

       + =Ind= 90:297 My 12 ‘17 30w

  “A thin book of not two hours’ reading, which is far too sketchy and
  meagre to justify a defiance of the high cost of paper by adding
  another pebble to the mountain of war-books. But one conviction
  strongly and instinctively held by Mr Cravath catches our interest.
  The conviction is that England will win, that nothing can stop the new
  army. Since we have ourselves entered the war, we have been glad of
  any reassurance, however uncritical or dogmatic. Mr Cravath’s
  conviction is both, yet he has the power to convey his conviction to
  his readers.”

         =New Repub= 10:330 Ap 14 ‘17 230w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:528 Je ‘17 40w

  “His account of the businesslike methods by which a modern battle is
  fought makes good reading.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:445 Ap ‘17 100w

  “Largely a reiteration of what we already know. But it makes an
  interesting reiteration because it is the result of personal, inexpert
  observation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Ap 27 ‘17 170w


=CREAGER, WILLIAM PITCHER.= Engineering for masonry dams. il $2.50 Wiley
627 17-17759

  “A concise handbook treating first of dams in general, choice of
  location, preliminary and final investigations, choice of type, and
  forces acting on dams with tables and equations for computing them;
  second, of particular types with examples of each and the calculations
  for their construction. The three final chapters are concerned with
  the preparation and protection of the foundation, flood flows, details
  and accessories.”—N Y P L New Tech Bks

  “The 229 pages of the volume are full of valuable information, made
  easy of access by the methodical arrangement of the material. The
  assumptions and recommendations are consistent with good conservative
  practice. ... If the reader feels any regret it is because he does not
  find treated one of the difficult problems of engineering of masonry
  dams—outlet control.” F. Teichman

     + — =Engin News-Rec= 79:562 S 20 ‘17 580w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p6 Jl ‘17 60w


=CREELMAN, HARLAN.= Introduction to the Old Testament; with a foreword
by Frank K. Sanders. *$2.75 Macmillan 221 17-12733

  “After about thirty pages of discussion of questions of general
  introduction the outline of biblical material is given
  chronologically, and divided into ten periods. The materials of four
  of these periods are found in the Hexateuch; and they are the
  primitive, the patriarchal, the exodus and the conquest of western
  Palestine periods. Then follow successively the periods of the judges,
  of the united kingdom, of the divided kingdom, of the exile, of
  Persian rule and of Grecian rule. All of this mass of material is
  analyzed, dated and described. Each section, paragraph, verse and part
  of a verse is carefully marked, so that the student of the English
  Bible may test for himself the data upon which the modern view of the
  Old Testament rests.”—Boston Transcript

  “Its general point of view, of course, is that of the historical
  school, and the author’s conclusions, in so far as they are indicated,
  are of the cautious type represented by such scholars as Driver and
  the contributors to Hastings’ ‘Dictionary of the Bible.’ But the
  critical literature so abundantly cited, if used by the inquiring
  reader, will bring him into touch with every shade of opinion.” J. M.
  P. Smith

       + =Am J Theol= 21:608 O ‘17 430w

  “There are three indexes which will prove very helpful to the student.
  For those who wish to study the Old Testament as an original source
  this is the best volume that has been published in English.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 16 ‘17 470w


=CREEVEY, CAROLINE ALATHEA (STICKNEY) (MRS JOHN KENNEDY CREEVEY).=
Daughter of the Puritans. il *$1.50 (2c) Putnam 17-6643

  The author of “Recreations in botany,” “Harper’s guide to wild
  flowers,” and other books, writes here of her girlhood. The years
  covered are those from her childhood up to her marriage in 1866 at the
  age of twenty-three. Of particular interest is her account of the
  religious training of New England children in her day and of its
  effect on the child mind. She herself, she says, lived two lives “one
  natural and childlike, the other terrified and unnatural.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:351 My ‘17

  “The childish attitude towards religion and God as it existed more
  than a half century ago could not be better epitomized.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 20 ‘17 1600w

  “Mrs Creevey is not only a botanist and a writer on botany, with
  several handy and useful books to her credit on our native flora and
  the pleasures of its study, but also an agreeable chronicler of events
  in the animate world of human beings. ... Her account of her education
  and her school-teaching is good reading—truthful and richly human,
  with a spice of humor.”

       + =Dial= 62:316 Ap 5 ‘17 230w

       + =Ind= 90:473 Je 9 ‘17 40w

  “All except the very young will find in this autobiography their own
  experiences mirrored.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1088 Ap 14 ‘17 180w

  “There are three chapters on Wheaton seminary (now college) at Norton,
  Mass.”

         =R of Rs= 55:667 Je ‘17 30w


=CREHORE, ALBERT GUSHING.= Mystery of matter and energy. il *$1 (6c) Van
Nostrand 530.1 17-28773

  In the first chapter of this little book the author says, “One of the
  purposes of the following lines will be fully accomplished if we
  succeed in presenting to those who have given little thought to this
  subject some conception of what is implied by the words ‘the problem
  of the structure of matter.’ Among scientists this problem has
  gradually increased in importance to such an extent that it may now be
  said to be the problem of problems.” Discoveries of recent years have
  advanced the problem to a point where its solution becomes a
  possibility. “The improbability of its solution in the eyes of a
  former generation has, it may be said, been changed into a probability
  in the eyes of the present generation.” The problem is stated, recent
  steps in its development traced, and the field for future effort
  outlined.

  “A fascinating little volume. ... The book is written without algebra,
  but it contains some beautiful geometrical drawings and atomic-model
  pictures. The volume is to be recommended to all educated persons
  possessing some general knowledge of physics who are interested in the
  most recent investigations within the microcosmic world.”

       + =Elec World= 71:50 Ja 5 ‘18 340w


=CREIGHTON, LOUISE (VON GLEHN) (MRS MANDELL CREIGHTON).=[2] Life and
letters of Thomas Hodgkin. il *$4.50 Longmans

  Thomas Hodgkin, an English banker, historian and antiquary who died in
  1913, is allowed to tell his life story largely in his own words, Mrs
  Creighton having drawn on his extensive correspondence and his private
  journals and diaries. She says, “My object has been to give a portrait
  of a man, not an account of the various causes in which he was
  interested, nor even, in the first place, of the work which he
  actually achieved.” Thomas Hodgkin was a Quaker and the record of his
  association with the Society of Friends is given in the words of
  fellow members of that faith. A bibliography, giving a list of all Dr
  Hodgkin’s writings is included in the appendix. Mrs Creighton is also
  author of the “Life and letters of Mandell Creighton.”

  “The record of a life such as Dr Hodgkin’s belongs among the notable
  biographies of men of thought and action.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 9 ‘18 1350w

  “The portrait she presents is serene but a trifle monotonous. There
  are too many birthday letters, written in a tone of affectionate
  retrospect, and a superabundance of religious discussions with Sir
  Edward Fry and other intimates.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:485 D 15 ‘17 350w

       + =Spec= 119:679 D 8 ‘17 1800w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p557 N 15 ‘17 50w

  “It is natural that to Mrs Creighton, who so admirably revealed the
  many-sided powers of the bishop [Bishop Creighton] who ‘tried to write
  true history,’ should be given the opportunity of preserving for
  posterity the lovable character of his friend. In this she has
  succeeded. ... There is no criticism, no endeavour to analyse his
  purpose, or assign him rank among the great historians.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p565 N 22 ‘17 1400w


Crime, The, by a German: tr. by Alexander Gray.[2] 2v v 1 *$2.50 (1½c)
Doran 940.91 17-26980

  A book called forth by the criticisms of the author’s earlier book
  “J’accuse,” with answers to the objections of German critics, among
  them Dr Karl Helfferich, Dr Theodor Schiemann, Paul Rohrbach, and
  Houston Stewart Chamberlain. The author’s chief aim has been to bring
  new evidence to bear on the thesis of the first book.

  “A far better appreciation of the present work is possible to those
  who have studied ‘J’accuse’ than to readers imperfectly acquainted
  with its subject-matter. ‘The crime’ will be widely read, and will
  deepen the impression made by the author’s previous book.”

       + =Ath= p684 D ‘17 210w

  “Had his first chapter been written without epithets, declamation, and
  self-laudation, the whole work would have gained in dignity and force.
  It is unnecessary explicitly to damn opponents whom your sober
  arguments render so ridiculous as this author renders the Teutonic
  apologists. Apart from this blemish the book is unanswerable.”

     + — =Lit D= 56:32 Ja 26 ‘18 580w

  “The author lays no claim to be in possession of any material which is
  not universally accessible, but in very patient and thoroughly German
  fashion he has made the most of what is available. It must be admitted
  that his method becomes at times wearisome. Those chapters which are
  freshest and will be most read deal with the relations between Lord
  Grey of Fallodon and Count Lichnowsky, the German ambassador in
  London, before the actual outbreak of war, and discuss the German
  claim that Russia, by being in so great a hurry to mobilize, was
  really the European ‘incendiary.’”

     + — =Spec= 119:sup550 N 17 ‘17 220w


=CROFT, TERRELL WILLIAMS.=[2] Electrical machinery; principles,
operation and management. il *$2 McGraw 621.31 17-19176

  “Avoiding the use of difficult mathematics, this well known author
  aims to explain to the ‘average’ man the theoretical principles and
  the essential operating facts relating to alternating-current and
  direct-current generators as well as to motors and similar machinery,
  with consideration of control apparatus. Design is not discussed.
  There are chapters on troubles, testing, and the determination of
  motor drive requirements. [There are] clear cut illustrations and
  practical examples with solutions.”—N Y P L New Tech Bks

         =A L A Bkl= 14:45 N ‘17

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p7 Jl ‘17 70w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:658 O ‘17 10w

       + =Power= 46:238 Ag 14 ‘17 500w

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 70w


=CROFT, TERRELL WILLIAMS.= Wiring for light and power. il *$2 McGraw
621.31 17-11353

  “The ‘National electric code’ which this book explains and illustrates
  is a set of rules prepared by the National board of fire underwriters
  for the purpose of insuring safe electrical installation. The aim of
  the author of the present book is to make plain just how the work
  should be performed to meet the requirements of the ‘Code.’ The ‘Code’
  itself may be had gratis from the National board of fire underwriters,
  76 William st., New York city.”—Quar List New Tech Bks

  “Valuable reference manual. Covers outside and theater lighting which
  Cook does not, is better illustrated and a little less technical.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:115 Ja ‘18

  “Exceptionally well illustrated and indexed.”

       + =Bul N Y Public Library= 21:482 Jl ‘17 120w

  “Valuable reference manual.”

       + =Cleveland= p109 S ‘17 10w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:105 Jl ‘17

  “Mr Croft, who has several other excellent handbooks to his credit,
  has in this practical and clearly written work supplied the desirable
  explanations and elaborations.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p8 Ap ‘17 120w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:517 Je ‘17

         =Pratt= p21 O ‘17 30w

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 90w


=CRONAU, RUDOLF.= German achievements in America. il $1 R. Cronau, 340
E. 198th st., N.Y. 325.7 16-16931

  “Written as an answer to what the author terms ‘unwarranted
  insinuations questioning the loyalty of the German-Americans toward
  the land of their adoption,’ this book brings together brief records
  of German achievements in America, from the days of the Palatines to
  the present, and covers achievements in pioneer life, war, politics,
  industry and commerce, science and engineering, literature and the
  press, music and drama, philanthropy and women’s work, including also
  a chapter on the National German-American alliance and its purposes,
  and The future mission of the German element in America.”—Cleveland

         =Cleveland= p159 D ‘16 90w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:213 Mr ‘17

         =St Louis= 14:386 N ‘16


=CROSS, HÉLÈNE (FODOR) (MRS C: E: CROSS).= Soldiers’ spoken French. *60c
Dutton 448 17-22899

  This book is a “short-cut to the amount of French which it is
  necessary that our men who go to France should be able to speak.” It
  has been “compiled from a real course of spoken lessons as given to
  New Zealand’s soldiers.” The author states: “The approximate
  pronunciation of each word will be found, as the sound would be spelt
  in English, in brackets beside it.” The binding is said to be
  waterproof and the book will fit the pocket of a uniform.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:9 O ‘17

  “It was an oversight, however, on the part of the American publishers
  not to give the equivalent of the French money in American, as well as
  in English currency.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:847 S ‘17 120w

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 60w

         =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:361 O ‘17 20w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p347 Jl 19 ‘17 30w


=CROSWELL, JAMES GREENLEAF.= Letters and writings. il *$2 (3c) Houghton
17-13972

  James Greenleaf Croswell became in 1887 head-master of the Brearley
  school for girls in New York city. His letters fill a little more than
  half of the present volume. “Many are written to relatives; some to
  literary and other friends; the majority, perhaps, to present and
  former pupils.” (Nation) These are followed by about one hundred pages
  of the author’s writings in prose and verse. Then come some seventy
  pages of “Recollections and appreciations” of Mr Croswell. The book is
  illustrated with three portraits of the author, a picture of his
  summer home and a facsimile of a letter to a child.

  “Evidently we have to do rather with a somewhat miscellaneous
  collection than with a book. Yet it contains enough interesting matter
  to give the reader no little insight into Mr Croswell’s character.
  Most interesting, naturally, to teachers are the letters exhibiting
  Croswell’s views on his own profession, as shown by allusions here and
  there in them—rarely by more elaborate or formal statement.” E. D.
  Perry

       + =Educ R= 54:419 N ‘17 1450w

  “Even to one who had never before heard of Mr Croswell or of the
  Brearley school, the book would be sure to be interesting, because
  there is a man in it. ... The more formal ‘Writings’—a couple of
  addresses, a fable or two, and a few translations and poems—add little
  to the picture, but do nothing to injure it. In the letters
  especially, which fill rather more than half the volume, one meets a
  personality of genuine and most winning humility, of entire
  unselfishness and a kind of appealing wistfulness, yet not without
  subtlety; and this conjoined with a mind of extraordinary keenness,
  flexibility, and refinement. ... It would be impossible to imagine
  better letters to young girls than many of these.”

       + =Nation= 105:228 Ag 30 ‘17 550w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:743 N ‘17 70w


=CROW, MRS MARTHA (FOOTE)=, comp. Christ in the poetry of today: an
anthology from American poets. $1 Woman’s press 811.08 17-21868

  The compiler of this volume, aroused by Dr Josiah Strong’s allusion to
  “the return to Christ that is now taking place,” decided to try out
  the truth of his statement in modern poetry. In fifty volumes of
  poetry of about 1890, she found few or no poems about Jesus; in 1895,
  a few; in 1900, many more; while in 1910, times had distinctly
  changed. In her introduction the compiler says: “Selecting, then, from
  the super-abundant wealth of poetical material on this theme, written
  by the poets of the United States of America, since about 1900, and
  arranging them in the order of the events of his life, we have here a
  sort of new biography of Jesus, each chapter of which consists of a
  poem written by a different author, and the whole forming the poetic
  reaction of our time to the thought of Jesus. ... Jew and Gentile,
  Protestant, Roman Catholic, Neo-Pagan, Socialist, Emersonian—all sorts
  and conditions of lovers and admirers of Jesus are represented in this
  collection.”

  “A most useful book for all having to do with programs for church,
  schools and societies.”

       + =Ind= 91:477 S 22 ‘17 70w


=CROWELL, BERTHA.= Wings of the cardinal. *$1.35 (1½c) Doran 17-25289

  Ferol Rankin, a beautiful red-haired, seventeen year old Texas country
  girl, to get money for her mother, became the mistress of Berry Ward,
  a rich New Yorker, with tuberculosis, who was seeking a divorce from a
  cheap actress whom he had married when he was drunk. Ward promised to
  marry Ferol when he got his divorce, and kept his word. After spending
  some time in Kansas City, in California and in New York, the Wards
  settled in San Vincente, New Mexico. Here Ward had an affair with
  Julia Brace, a married woman, though he was still in love with his
  wife. Meanwhile James Sanger, a sculptor, fell in love with Ferol and
  tried to make her go away with him, but although she loved Sanger, she
  decided that she couldn’t “be a quitter” and elected to stay with her
  husband. Ward, however, divined the state of the case, told Sanger
  that he would “play to lose” and that Ferol would be free in six
  months. He stayed alone in a hunting camp and died of hemorrhage. The
  “Texas Cardinal” then cabled Sanger, who was in Algiers, that he might
  return in a few months.

  “The novel reads very like a first book, but though it is deficient in
  artistry and in interest, it has some clever bits, usually
  descriptions of places and environments. Especially good is the sketch
  of San Vincente and its health colony, outwardly so light-hearted and
  careless, really engaged in a plucky fight against the one real enemy,
  tuberculosis.”

         =N Y Times= 22:326 S 2 ‘17 300w


=CROY, MAE SAVELL.= 1000 hints on flowers and birds. *$1.50 Putnam 716
17-17297

  Uniform with “1000 hints on vegetable gardening.” Treats of The art of
  growing flowers, Essentials in gardening, Special features of the
  garden, The lawn, Shrubbery and trees, Insects and sprays, Color
  scheme, List of common and botanical names of flowers mentioned in the
  text, List of flowers arranged according to the blossoming period,
  List of perennials, also annuals, arranged according to colors,
  Flowers for cutting, Flowers requiring little sunlight, Flowers that
  thrive in damp places, Flowers for the old-fashioned garden, and a
  List of evergreen shrubs and trees. The last thirty pages are
  concerned with “A plea for the birds.”

  “The indexing of the helpful information is scholarly and invaluable.”

       + =Lit D= 56:40 Ja 12 ‘18 130w

  “An almost dishonestly misleading title. The impression of
  coördination that is conveyed is belied when it turns out that the
  birds receive only thirty-two pages in a volume of 359 pages, or one
  chapter among twenty-one. This chapter, it should also be said, is of
  no value to the field student, concerning, as it does, only such
  matters as bird houses and food. The justification of the book (it
  does justify itself) is in the highly condensed information on
  gardening and full index that renders this information quickly
  accessible. The author’s information, though generally correct and
  serviceable, is more than once careless.”

   + – — =Nation= 105:610 N 29 ‘17 180w

  “An indispensable guide for the amateur gardener and home-builder,
  equally suited to the needs of those who have a large acreage at their
  disposal and for the person with the modest backyard or the narrow
  window-box.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:221 Ag ‘17 70w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 60w


=CROY, MAE SAVELL.= 1000 hints on vegetable gardening. *$1.50 (3c)
Putnam 635 17-18609

  Uniform with “1000 shorter ways around the house,” and “1000 things a
  mother should know.” There is a chapter whose tabulation is
  alphabetical which groups under each vegetable the hints for the
  planting, care, cooking and preservation of that vegetable. There are
  chapters on: Soil and fertilization; The hotbed and cold-frame; Seed;
  Planting; Thinning and transplanting; Cultivation; Watering; Weeds;
  Insects and sprays; Fruit; Small fruits; Nuts; Trees; Miscellaneous
  hints; List of agricultural experiment stations; Plan for a family
  garden; Table denoting how much space should be devoted to various
  vegetables; Convenient lists for gardeners; Index.


=CROY, MAE SAVELL.= 1000 things a mother should know. *$1.50 (3c) Putnam
649 17-13344

  The suggestions the author has brought together have reference “to
  tiny babies and growing children; their clothes, their care, their
  food, their training, and their entertainment.” As in her earlier
  book, “1000 shorter ways around the house,” she has arranged a large
  amount of miscellaneous material under convenient subject headings.
  Contents: Pregnancy; Clothing; The nursery; Health rules and medical
  care; Hygiene and sick-room suggestions; Food; Habits and training;
  Amusements; Miscellaneous.

         =Cleveland= p110 S ‘17 30w

  “A large amount of miscellaneous information conveniently arranged.”

       + =Pratt= p25 O ‘17 20w


=CRUMP, IRVING.= Boys’ book of policemen. il *$1.35 (2½c) Dodd 352
17-13226

  A companion volume to “The boys’ book of firemen,” by the same author.
  It will give a new idea of the policeman’s duties and of the wide
  variety of the opportunities offered by the calling. Contents: The
  call of adventure; “Pounding the pavement” with the patrolman; The
  six-foot guards of traffic; In action with the mounted men;
  Mile-a-minute motor patrol; The four-footed police of the dog patrol;
  The pirate fighting marine division; The sleuths of the secret
  service; The riot call and other police signals; Police preparedness;
  Policemen in the making; Your big brother—the cop.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:453 Jl ‘17

  “Besides all the practical information, stories are told of many
  adventures and thrilling incidents.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 90w

       + =Cleveland= p127 N ‘17 30w

       + =Pratt= p9 O ‘17 20w


=CUBBERLEY, ELLWOOD PATTERSON, and others.= School organization and
administration. (Educational survey ser.) il $1.50 World bk. co. 371
16-17381

  The report of a school survey conducted by Dr Cubberley in Salt Lake
  City in 1915. “The survey concerned itself especially with the form or
  organization and administration under which the schools were operated,
  the system of supervisory control by means of which the superintendent
  of schools worked, the progress in the fundamental subjects being made
  by the children in the schools, and the problem of adequate
  finance. ... The report contained, in addition, a number of features
  which were quite distinctive. ... Among these should be mentioned the
  detailed explanation of the tests made and the results obtained, the
  study of the instruction of retarded pupils, the work in health
  control, the school building and site problem, and the peculiar
  financial problem, presented by this city.” (Preface) The first
  edition published by the Board of education of Salt Lake City was
  early exhausted and this second edition is now printed with some
  revisions and additions by the author.

  “A great mass of educational literature is accumulating, some of it of
  dubious value, which may or may not be useful hereafter as material or
  sources for students in educational administration and practise. A
  painstaking example of a work of this type is ‘School organization and
  administration.’”

         =Educ R= 53:199 F ‘17 70w

  “Will be useful to any school officer or parent who wishes to work out
  an intelligent view of his own school situation.”

       + =Ind= 89:196 Ja 29 ‘17 70w

  Reviewed by B: C. Gruenberg

         =N Y Call= p12 F 4 ‘17 430w


=CUMBERLAND, WILLIAM WILSON.= Cooperative marketing. *$1.50 Princeton
univ. press 334 17-28662

  “In ‘Cooperative marketing: its advantages as exemplified in the
  California fruit growers exchange’ Prof. W. W. Cumberland has written
  the history of the exchange since its beginnings in the early
  nineties, outlined its methods of work, summarized its benefits, and
  said a few words of its pertinence to cooperative marketing in other
  fields. ... It consists, essentially, of 8,000 orchardists united into
  117 local packing exchanges, each handling fruit on a cost basis; of
  17 district selling exchanges, or clearing-houses; and of the central
  exchange, which, under president and directors, provides market
  facilities, issues daily bulletins of market information, advertises,
  owns the ‘Sunkist’ trade-mark, handles litigation, and maintains an
  organized selling force of 75 offices and 200 salesmen in the
  principal European, Canadian, and American markets.”—Nation

  “Comprehensive, suggestive, candid and rational. This book should give
  a great stimulus to the one phase of cooperation.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 8 ‘17 150w

  “Professor Cumberland tells his story lucidly and comprehensively.”

       + =Nation= 105:571 N 22 ‘17 470w


=CUNNINGHAM, WILLIAM.= Progress of capitalism in England. *90c (3c)
Putnam 330.9 (Eng ed 17-15935)

  This book contains the substance of lectures delivered in the London
  school of economics and political science in 1915, and is “published
  in the hope that it may prove a useful appendix to the author’s
  ‘Growth of English industry and commerce.’” (Preface) The book is
  divided into three sections: Economic history and empirical economic
  science; The development of the body economic in England: Lessons from
  experience. “One-third of it is devoted to the general philosophy of
  the subject. ... The development of industrial capitalism in the
  eighteenth and nineteenth centuries is touched upon only by a brief
  discussion of ‘laisser-faire.’ A contribution to the economic problems
  of the future is offered in the final chapter on ‘Lessons from
  experience.’” (Eng Hist R)

  “Much material of great interest to students of economic history is
  presented in brief compass, particularly in the second part of the
  book which deals with ‘The progress of capitalism in mediaeval
  cities.’”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:597 Ag ‘17 80w

  “The many students of Archdeacon Cunningham’s ‘Growth of English
  industry and commerce’ will not find anything new in his lectures on
  ‘The progress of capitalism in England’ but those who desire a very
  brief summary of his views on this aspect of economic history will
  find this little book helpful.” G. U.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:316 Ag ‘17 170w

  “Besides an instructive summary of our economic development, this
  little book contains an earnest plea for the study of economic
  history.”

       + =Spec= 118:341 Mr 17 ‘17 80w


=CUNNINGHAME GRAHAM, ROBERT BONTINE.=[2] Brought forward; Charity;
Faith; Hope; Progress; Success. ea *$1.35 Stokes (Eng ed 17-11795)

  “Of the six volumes which are now being brought out in a uniform
  edition in this country, one, ‘Brought forward,’ is published for the
  first time. The other books, although they have been appearing one by
  one in England since the early years of the century, have never before
  been issued here. The present edition amounts, therefore, to an
  introduction, for American leaders, to a large part of a well-known
  British writer’s work. Of the fifteen stories in the new volume, three
  are Scotch, three English, one a story of the Arabs, one a story of
  Spain; the others take the reader to scenes past and present in Latin
  America. ... The name of the volume ‘Charity’ is taken from the
  initial story of the book, but nearly all the tales have charity,
  sometimes in an odd form, as motif. ... ‘Faith’ and ‘Hope’ form the
  keynotes of the volumes of those titles, though sometimes faith and
  hope show themselves, and play their parts in men’s and women’s lives,
  in strange and sad ways. ... ‘Progress,’ a long story in the book of
  that name, is a horrible record of the putting down of a rebellion in
  Mexico. ... His sympathies are always with the simple people, the
  oppressed, the misunderstood.”—N Y Times

  “Keen as is the sympathy that marks his pictures of simple folk in
  England and Scotland, his stories of Latin America are really the most
  interesting in the book, with a few brief sketches of Spaniards and
  Moors following close behind. Yet the whole book is a series of
  delightful portraits, both of men and of horses. The earlier volumes
  show the same understanding that marks ‘Brought forward.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:393 O 14 ‘17 1000w

  “He has irony, pity, and wit. He is the master of the telling phrase,
  and can produce a convincing picture with the utmost economy of words.
  Our delight in this book is tempered only by the fear that it is to
  be, according to rumour, Mr Cunninghame Graham’s last.”

       + =Sat R= 122:417 O 28 ‘16 470w (Review of “Brought forward”)

  “We need only say that they are as attractive as ever—especially ‘El
  tango Argentino’—and commend them to his many faithful readers, who
  will be grieved to learn from the preface that the author will write
  no more.”

       + =Spec= 117:sup609 N 18 ‘16 70w (Review of “Brought forward”)

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p511 O 26 ‘16 1200w (Review of
         “Brought forward”)


=CURLE, RICHARD.= Echo of voices. *$1.50 (2c) Knopf 17-13448

  Richard Curle is author of a critical study of Joseph Conrad, and
  Conrad has stood sponsor for this book of short stories. “I think your
  taking him up is a good move,” he wrote to the publisher. “He has
  brains; he has also a writer’s temperament.” The short stories that
  compose the book are serious studies of life and character. Most of
  them have a commonplace London setting. One, His kingdom, is a story
  of South Africa; another, Nineteen, of the South seas. The other
  titles are: The two dependants; Midnight: The would-be friends;
  General service; Monsieur Clavel; Deep down.

  “The book is, it is easily apparent, not strikingly of the ‘wholesome’
  breed. It is not likely to please those who lack a relish for the
  eccentric and somewhat bitter. But the tales, for all their lack of
  the conventionalities of structure and content, have a certain power
  and self-sufficiency.” F. I.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 23 ‘17 550w

  “There is perhaps more than a suggestion of Mr Conrad’s own method,
  and more than a trace of the influence of the great Russians,
  especially Dostoevsky. But what then? These are no bad models for a
  young writer with a temperament, and Mr Curie has had the strength to
  put his individual stamp on all but one of these tales.”

     + — =Dial= 63:353 O 11 ‘17 530w


=CURRAN, WILLIAM TEES, and CALKINS, HAROLD A.= In Canada’s wonderful
northland. il *$2.50 (2c) Putnam 917.1 17-5856

  A book devoted to the northern part of the province of Quebec, a
  country now being opened to settlement by the construction of a
  railroad to Hudson bay. It is an account of eight months of travel by
  canoe, motorboat and dog-team. The authors were continuing studies
  made earlier by Mr Curran and summed up in “Glimpses of northern
  Canada, a land of hidden treasure,” a work issued by the Canadian
  government. The book is well illustrated and supplied with maps.

  “An unassuming and interestingly written record of a trip taken by the
  authors in 1912.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:349 My ‘17

  “The book prefigures, in all likelihood, a remarkable expansion
  northward in the near future.”

       + =Dial= 62:531 Je 14 ‘17 270w

       + =Nation= 105:323 S 20 ‘17 350w

  “From the intimate manner in which the narrative is set forth, the
  reader seems to live in the region through which he passes. The sixty
  illustrations and maps are illuminating and well chosen.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:196 My 20 ‘17 170w

  “It is not as well written as it might have been; the illustrations
  are exceptionally good and, on the whole, the book is one of the best
  volumes of Canadian travel in some time.”

     + — =Ontario Library Review= 1:112 My ‘17 50w

         =R of Rs= 55:555 My ‘17 50w

       + =Spec= 119:sup630 D 1 ‘17 80w

  “Those who wish a true and vivid picture of the vast region known as
  northern Canada cannot do better than read ‘In Canada’s wonderful
  northland.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 29 ‘17 270w

  “This being a book for the general reader, Mr Curran does not give
  details about his technical work. It contains an appendix giving new
  and valuable information about the harbours discovered.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p398 Ag 23 ‘17 600w

  “Covers some of the ground of Leith’s ‘Summer and winter on Hudson
  bay.’”

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:183 Je ‘17 80w


=CURRIE, BARTON WOOD.= Tractor and its influence upon the agricultural
implement Industry. il *$1 (2c) Curtis pub. co., Independence square,
Philadelphia 631 16-15374

  A series of papers on the development and use of farm implements, with
  particular reference to the tractor, reprinted from the Country
  Gentleman. Part 1 consists of a miscellaneous collection in which the
  author deplores the “senseless diversification” of farm machinery and
  argues for standardization. Part 2 is devoted to the tractor and its
  place in agriculture.

         =R of Rs= 54:459 O ‘16 50w


=CURRIE, JOHN ALLISTER.= Red watch; with the first Canadian division in
Flanders. il *$1.50 Button 940.91 (Eng ed A17-370)

  “Colonel Currie’s book deals concretely with but one regiment of the
  many that have gone out from Canada. But in its careful and
  representative detail it offers us much information about the part
  played in the war by Canada as a whole.” (N Y Times) “The ‘Red watch’
  is the term applied to the 48th Highlanders. After the battle of
  Langemarck only 212 out of the 1034 members of this regiment responded
  to the muster call.” (R of Rs)

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:394 Je ‘17

         =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 50w

  “The men under his command were certainly a band of heroes, and the
  story of their heroism stirs the blood. The pictorial feature is
  prominent.” P. F. Bicknell

       + =Dial= 62:306 Ap 5 ‘17 130w

  “Colonel Currie is particularly emphatic in praising the temperance
  and careful living of his men, and denying reports that British,
  French, or Canadian soldiers are given rum or drugs ‘to keep up their
  courage.’ ... There is much that is thrilling in this clean-cut
  soldier’s chronicle, much that is inspiriting and fine. It is a
  soldier’s record, through and through.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:57 F 18 ‘17 330w

         =R of Rs= 55:445 Ap ‘17 40w


=CURTIN, DANIEL THOMAS.= Land of deepening shadow; Germany-at-war. il
*$1.50 (2c) Doran 940.91 17-13672

  The author is a young American war correspondent who went to Germany
  late in 1915. His purpose in the book is to give a general picture of
  conditions in that country under the stress of war. In the early
  chapters he aims to show how all Germans were “made to think as one
  man,” in other words, “how the German government creates unity.” It is
  done by utilizing all the forces that mold public opinion, schools,
  pulpit, theatre, and press. In the later chapters he describes “the
  forces tending to disintegrate that wonderful unity.” Among the
  chapters are: A Land of substitutes; The gagging of Liebknecht; Spies
  and semi-spies; The iron hand in Alsace-Lorraine; The war slaves of
  Essen; Germany’s human resources; In the deepening shadow.

  “Evidently authentic, it gives many informing and probably unique
  experiences.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:443 Jl ‘17

  “Some books dealing with the internal condition of Germany convey an
  impression that the colours are too liberally spread upon the palette.
  The supply of horrifying and sensational facts occasionally forces on
  the reader the suspicion that the authors have kept the probable
  demand rather too prominently in view. Mr Curtin’s book is free from
  that sort of thing.”

       + =Ath= p258 My ‘17 280w

         =Ath= p346 Jl ‘17 320w

  “Mr Curtin is one of Lord Northcliffe’s young men; and he has his
  patron’s faculty of making our flesh creep with quite exceptional
  hideousness. The book he has written will tell any reader what Mr
  Curtin says he saw inside the German empire; but I think that he will
  conclude that his author has still to learn the value of historic and
  psychological light and shade.” H. J. Laski

         =Dial= 63:15 Je 28 ‘17 60w

         =Ind= 90:470 Je 9 ‘17 280w

         =Lit D= 55:42 O 13 ‘17 300w

  “A frank, well-informed, and brightly written, though egotistical,
  book by a Germano-phobe Irish newspaper reporter for the Northcliffe
  press.”

       + =Nation= 105:204 Ag 23 ‘17 500w

  “Under the disguise of a seemingly frank and dispassionate analysis of
  conditions, the facts are carefully selected and presented with true
  journalistic cunning in contrast and climax. One hesitates to term
  this technique dishonest even in a minor sense, for the chances are
  that it results more from an unconscious bias than from any deliberate
  attempt to deceive. ... The whole force of Mr Curtin’s book comes from
  making vivid the truth of the chancellor’s utterance in the Reichstag
  when he said, apropos of the complete blockade of Great Britain by
  submarines, ‘We are staking all on this throw.’”

     + — =New Repub= 12:54 Ag 11 ‘17 650w

  “It is a depressing or inspiring picture, just as the inclinations of
  the reader are ‘pro-Ally’ or ‘pro-German.’ But it is well written, and
  seems to be the work of a trained observer, even if his impartiality
  be questioned.” J. W.

     + — =N Y Call= p14 S 16 ‘17 750w

  “Since thorough knowledge of an enemy is the first essential of
  efficient warfare, the intimate, first-hand view which he offers ought
  to have wide reading.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:215 Je 3 ‘17 800w

  “The reader will find the information collected and classified; he
  will find the facts reported in an impartial and historical spirit;
  and he will find the reports characterized by a degree of reality and
  authority not always, perhaps not often, to be found in newspaper
  correspondence. The author reports, not what he was given every
  facility to see, but what was often carefully hidden from him.”

       + =Outlook= 117:102 S 19 ‘17 340w

         =Pratt= p39 O ‘17 10w

  “Of special interest are his chapters on educational and publicity
  methods employed by the government.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:668 Je ‘17 120w

  “It gives the most complete account at present procurable of the
  internal conditions of [Germany]. ... The fact that the author’s
  country was not involved in the conflict enabled him not only to see
  more than an Englishman would have been allowed to see, but also to
  take a more objective view of the phenomena which he observed.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p134 Mr 22 ‘17 900w


=CURTIS, LIONEL=, ed. Commonwealth of nations. pt 1 *$2.50 (1c)
Macmillan 325.3 (17-1660)

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “The lay-reader, despite the clearness of style, the auxiliary plans,
  and the handsome appearance of the book will hardly be attracted to
  the seven hundred pages of solid matter. Nor will the scholar be apt
  to find it of great use. It is essentially an edition of reports,
  lengthy but marked by serious omissions, made by industrious and
  intelligent laymen, and drawn from familiar secondary material. The
  purpose of the work is warmly to be commended but its value to
  historical scholars is at least questionable.” C: Seymour

         =Am Hist R= 22:644 Ap ‘17 700w

  “There is great ability in his statement, and a very wide knowledge is
  implied in his treatment of imperial history. Given the limitations he
  has himself imposed, the development of the present situation is truly
  rendered; and the volume is one which no intelligent British citizen
  can afford to neglect. ... The fundamental fault of Mr Curtis is
  provincialism. ... His geography would have to be revised for an
  American edition of his book; and perhaps even his history is tainted
  with the same provincialism of outlook. ... The sum of our criticism
  is this: there is ability in the marshalling of facts and the urging
  of a political programme, but the moral attitude implied is
  ingenuously primitive.” C. D. Burns

     + — =Hibbert J= 15:344 Ja ‘17 1650w

  “The real significance of the present study is that it is to be
  regarded as a counterblast to such writers as Jebb and others who
  believe in Britannic alliance and conceive the future of Britain to be
  an alliance between the mother-country and the self-governing
  dominions. ... Indeed, the completeness with which it collates such
  material and the convenient form in which it presents it make the
  volume a handy treatise on the failure of contract or treaty to insure
  permanency of political relationships. At this time, too, the subject
  is of wider interest than its immediate problem; the volume might be
  read as a sufficient antidote to a good bit of the literature put
  forth by the League to enforce peace. On the other hand, the study
  suffers from a failure to look at the history and evolution of the
  self-governing dominions. The American colonies, Ireland, Scotland,
  and the United States are treated, but the history of Canada and
  Australia is almost completely ignored. ... In the background of these
  ideas is Treitschke rather than T. H. Green. They go with a temper
  rather out of style at present—too little in sympathy with the common
  people.” D. A. MacGibbon

         =J Pol Econ= 25:512 My ‘17 1150w

  “The chapters on the American revolution (from the British point of
  view) and the relations between England and Ireland are specially
  interesting. The book is weighty, and may be recommended to students
  of history and imperial politics. It is liberally supplied with
  elaborate maps and diagrams.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 1 ‘17 170w


=CUSHMAN, ROBERT EUGENE.= Excess condemnation. *$2 (2½c) Appleton 336.1
17-21830

  Mr Cushman, who is instructor in political science in the University
  of Illinois, treats his subject from the standpoint of the American
  city, the experience of European cities being introduced merely for
  illustrative and comparative purposes. He defines excess condemnation
  as, “‘the policy, on the part of the state or city, of taking by right
  of eminent domain more property than is actually necessary for the
  creation of a public improvement, and of subsequently selling or
  leasing this surplus.’” (Engin News-Rec) He discusses the three main
  objects of excess condemnation: “(1) to solve the vexing problems of
  remnants of land; (2) for the protection of improvements against the
  prejudicial use of adjacent land; (3) to take for the benefit of the
  city the increase in values of land adjacent to public improvements,
  due to the improvements themselves, and thus pay or help pay for the
  cost of the improvements. ... He then takes up ‘gains and risks’
  administration, and the constitutionality of excess condemnation. A
  few bibliographical references and a list of cases cited are given.”
  (Engin News-Rec) The editor of the National municipal league series,
  in which this is the third volume, states in his introduction that
  this is the first work in the English language on the subject.

  “It presents ample data on the many perplexing phases of the subject
  and discusses in a judicial spirit the evidence on both sides of
  controverted questions. ... The book deserves the careful attention of
  engineers and other city officials concerned in planning, financing
  and protecting municipal improvements, broadminded real estate men and
  all who are interested in helping on the orderly and economical growth
  of municipal improvements.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:751 O 18 ‘17 500w

     + — =Nation= 106:69 Ja 17 ‘18 210w

  “With its historical and illustrative material and general citation of
  cases the book will prove helpful to all students of the subject. ...
  The slow movement of our cities towards fundamental improvements is
  primarily because of the expense involved. The volume will by many be
  considered lacking in its handling of this.” E: T. Hartman

     + — =Survey= 39:202 N 24 ‘17 400w


=CUTLER, FREDERICK MORSE.= Old First Massachusetts coast artillery in
war and peace. il *$1 (2c) Pilgrim press 353.9 17-12948

  Lieutenant Cutler gives the history of the “Old First” from its origin
  in 1784 to January, 1917. There are many pictures showing the changes
  in uniform and in artillery with the passing generations. The first
  appendix gives the Genealogy of the coast artillery; the second a
  bibliography.

  “No Massachusetts militia unit has enjoyed a more interesting history,
  or has been more actively engaged in the country’s defence, than the
  Old First.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 250w

  “It will be news to many to find that in 1784 the general apathy
  toward military affairs in the United States was so marked that the
  total regular army was comprized within a single company, now Battery
  F of the field artillery.”

         =Ind= 91:34 Jl 7 ‘17 100w

  “Lieut. Cutler, who, by the way, is pastor of the Congregational
  church of Wenham, has told his story with a wealth of anecdote and in
  a style that will commend the volume beyond its particular clientele.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 27 ‘17 200w


=CUTLER, ROBERT.= Louisburg square. il *$1.50 (2c) Macmillan 17-10857

  First of all this novel is a picture of Boston society. Old Boston
  names, Cabot, Quincy, and Copley, appear in its pages. Secondarily, it
  is a story. Rosalind Copley, the heroine, is a beautiful and popular
  young girl who interests herself in charities, acting as a volunteer
  worker in a settlement house. She has entered into a tentative
  engagement with Ben Cary, a promising young lawyer, when she meets
  Eric Rolland. Love between the two springs up quickly, but Rosalind
  feels that Ben has claims on her. Circumstances solve her problem.

  “Mr Cutler knows whereof he writes. But the value of his novel does
  not rest on a knowledge of Beacon street and Commonwealth avenue. ...
  ‘Louisburg square’ starts where many of its unsuccessful competitors
  stop. Its universal elements bring it to the goal they miss.” R. W.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 11 ‘17 770w

  “The author makes some attempt at characterization, but the result is
  not very convincing. The whole with its irritating self-immolation is
  somewhat too suggestive of an ‘Elsie’ book to be pleasant.”

     – + =Dial= 62:483 My 31 ‘17 120w

     + — =Ind= 81:188 Ag 4 ‘17 70w

  “All the old ingredients are here; there is a certain vigor about the
  telling, but why waste it on this trivial skeleton of an unreality?”
  C. W.

     – + =N Y Call= p13 Ap 22 ‘17 120w

  “A first novel and the product of an author so young that he was
  graduated from Harvard only last year, ‘Louisburg square’ shows a
  great deal of promise and a quite commendable present achievement.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:125 Ap 8 ‘17 570w

       + =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 50w

  “There is quite enough in ‘Louisburg square’ of the quiet insight into
  and keen appreciation of that Boston culture which Mr Cutler
  understands well to make us hope for his early return from soldiering
  to writing—for him, evidently a field of promise.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 700w




                                   D


=DALE, ROBERT BURDETTE.= Drawing for builders. (Wiley technical ser. for
vocational and industrial schools) il *$1.50 Wiley 692 16-20746

  “This book is intended to serve as a basis for a problem course in
  elementary architectural drawing, and to be especially useful to the
  practical builder and to the ambitious young man who wishes to become
  an architect’s draftsman. ... Its aim is not only to teach the student
  to make drawings, but to instruct him to read and use them. It is
  written for use in home-study instruction, either with or without
  assistance, and it is hoped that it may find a place in high schools,
  vocational schools, night schools and industrial classes.” (Preface)
  Contents: Introduction; Drawing instruments and materials; How to make
  a drawing; Architectural free-hand lettering; Straight-line
  projection; The problems. These problems take up about one-half of the
  book. The author is assistant professor in charge of vocational
  courses in engineering at Iowa state college.

  “The same author’s ‘Arithmetic for carpenters and builders’ is an
  excellent book for the same type of reader.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ap ‘17 50w


=DALRYMPLE, LEONA.= Kenny. il *$1.35 (2c) Reilly & B. 17-21645

  This story is by the author of the $10,000 prize novel, “Diane of the
  green van.” “Kennicott O’Neill is [the hero’s] full name, and he is a
  famous painter and as richly endowed with temperament as he is
  entitled to be by his double birthright of Celt and artist.
  Nevertheless, every one calls him ‘Kenny,’ even to his 23-year-old
  son, Brian. ... It all begins because Kenny, being more impecunious
  than usual, has taken Brian’s shotgun out and sold it, and Brian,
  being much annoyed, has thrown his paint brush across the studio and
  smashed a statuette.” (N Y Times) The two quarrel and Brian leaves his
  father “to tramp off into God’s green world of spring.” Kenny,
  homesick for the boy, follows him later, and they both find Joan, the
  girl in gold brocade, and her young brother, Don. Many things happen,
  and “finally Kenny realizes that the time has come for him to be 44
  years old and for Brian, at last, to be 23 years young.” (N Y Times)

  “Entertaining, sentimental, and in parts delightfully humorous.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:59 N ‘17

  “If, not being too particular about facts, one likes occasionally a
  bit of Irish blarney and a bit of a romance with fairies lurking
  around the corner, then one should most certainly read about Kenny,
  artist, lover, and father to his son.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 26 ‘17 200w

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 100w

  “Leona Dalrymple has written an American E. Temple Thurston novel; and
  although the comparison between the two may not be wholly in her
  favor, it is not meant to be derogatory. For nothing is so
  difficult—for an American writer, so relentlessly difficult—as the
  expression of charm in personality. Mr Merwin has given us his
  interpretation of New York’s bohemia; Miss Dalrymple now gives us
  hers, and, to tell the truth, it pleases us more.”

       + =Dial= 63:281 S 27 ‘17 140w

  “A slight, wind-woven, gay story, with a touch of pathos toward the
  end.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:302 Ag 19 ‘17 600w

  “Miss Dalrymple tells her very light story with zest, and there are
  pleasant bits of outdoor description. As a picture of Irish character
  it is highly conventional.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 23 ‘17 250w


=D’ALTON, J. F.= Horace and his age. *$2 (3c) Longmans 874

  A study in historical background intended to encourage consideration
  of the character of the age in which Horace lived and wrote. The
  writer says, “I have tried to view him in the light of the various
  movements of his time, to recapture, as it were, the atmosphere in
  which he moved, to estimate a portion at least of the influences under
  which many of his thoughts were bodied forth.” Contents: Horace and
  Roman politics; The Augustan revival; Horace in religion and
  philosophy; The period of the Epistles; Horace and social problems;
  Horace and popular beliefs; Literary criticism.

  “Prof. D’Alton, with a careful endeavour to steer clear of
  Procrustean-ism, and from evidence mainly derived from the poet’s
  writings, has in considerable measure succeeded in placing before us,
  not indeed a new Horace, but one whose mentality is perhaps a little
  easier to understand than was previously the case.”

       + =Ath= p594 N ‘17 130w

  “It is a particular pleasure to call attention to a genuinely
  distinguished contribution to the understanding of Horace.”

       + =Educ R= 55:77 Ja ‘18 140w

  “To a certain extent he is successful, for he has great knowledge and
  great love of his subject, he writes admirably, and throws light on
  many particular points; but the total effect is that he presents the
  reader rather with an excellent book of reference than with an
  effective portrait.”

     + — =Spec= 119:647 D 1 ‘17 1650w

  “It displays industry, accuracy, and temperate judgment. It does not
  go wandering after paradoxes like that which ensnared so brilliant a
  scholar and so keen a critic as Verrall. And by its seriousness it is
  a good corrective to the superficial view of Horace as an elegant
  trifler, a preacher of pleasure, one whose ideals of life were low.
  The defect of these qualities ... is that the book is rather useful
  than stimulating, and leaves no clear total impression.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p484 O 11 ‘17 2000w


=DALY, JOSEPH FRANCIS.= Life of Augustin Daly. il *$4 (2½c) Macmillan
17-25827

  The brother of Augustin Daly has written this intimate biography which
  is not only a full record of the life and work of America’s greatest
  theatrical manager but is an important contribution to the history of
  the American stage. During his early years, Mr Daly was dramatic
  critic for several of the New York papers. In this field he developed
  taste and genius not only for theater management but for play writing.
  In 1869 he entered the theatrical business when he leased the Fifth
  avenue theater for a term of two years and advertised to produce
  “whatever is novel, original, entertaining and unobjectionable,” and
  to revive “whatever is rare and worthy in the legitimate drama.” Mr
  Daly’s sincere, unflagging devotion to the cause of establishing the
  theater on a successful basis of high excellence furnishes the theme
  of the larger part of the work which cannot fail to find a large
  audience among producers, managers, playwrights, actors and, as well,
  the general public.

  “Augustin Daly did a great service for the American stage, a service
  made all the more important by the influence of his own sterling
  character and single-eyed purpose, and this account of it deserves to
  have a place among the interesting records of American achievements.”
  F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 46:328 N ‘17 270w

  “A sympathetic appreciation by a brother. The reader is therefore
  offered a mass of interesting personalia, in lieu of any profound
  critical estimate of Augustin Daly’s influence on the American
  theater.”

       + =Lit D= 55:39 N 17 ‘17 350w

  “The author has succeeded in rearing a notable monument of fraternal
  affection. But, though a respected and capable judge, he had little
  skill in bookmaking. The legal habit of his mind is betrayed in the
  accumulation of the smallest details, rather than in orderly and
  discriminating use of them. His relation, especially in some of the
  earlier chapters, is often exceedingly confused and rambling.” J. R.
  Towse

     + — =Nation= 106:71 Ja 17 ‘18 1300w

  “So broad, indeed, is the book’s scope that it becomes almost a
  history of the New York stage through the middle and later decades of
  the nineteenth century. And there are numbers of photographs of the
  stars of the seventies, eighties, and nineties, pictures which will
  arouse a flood of recollections in the breasts of middle-aged
  theatregoers.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:13 Ja 13 ‘18 1150w

  “An admirable biography. The author has used his ample material with
  tact and taste.”

       + =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:803 D ‘17 90w

  “The book singularly and regrettably fails to give the intimate view
  we expect in biography. ... He has made a ship-shape lucid biography
  with the personal equation of both brothers left out. To this end he
  seems to have deliberately foregone the abundant anecdotal charm of
  theatrical books. But he has made a valuable statistical contribution
  to the history of the American stage.” Algernon Tassin

     + — =Pub W= 92:1383 O 20 ‘17 720w


=DAMPIERRE, LÉON MICHEL MARIE JACQUES DE, marquis.= German imperialism
and international law; based upon German authorities and the archives of
the French government. il *$3.50 Scribner 940.91 (Eng ed 17-15316)

  “In the first chapters M. de Dampierre devotes himself to an
  investigation of the theories which have gone to build up the
  principles of German imperialism, contrasting them with the opposed
  doctrines which have found their expression in the attempts to build
  up a system of international law.’ ... He then proceeds to show how
  all that has happened in this war. ... is the logical and inevitable
  consequence of the teaching of German writers before the war. ... He
  has read widely and ... his illustrations from the works of German
  writers are always supported by full references. ... The two last
  chapters, ‘The German war and spoliation’ and ‘German terrorism,’ are
  almost entirely occupied with a discussion of the diaries of German
  soldiers, which afford irrefutable evidence regarding what took place
  during the months of August and September, 1914.”—The Times [London]
  Lit Sup

         =A L A Bkl= 14:52 N ‘17

         =Dial= 63:214 S 13 ‘17 330w

     + — =Educ R= 54:422 N ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p13 O ‘17 20w

         =R of Rs= 56:214 Ag ‘17 100w

  “M. de Dampierre proves quite conclusively that the annexation of
  Belgium was the direct objective of the war.”

       + =Sat R= 123:601 Je 30 ‘17 1000w

  “Ably and temperately written book, fortified throughout by the
  evidence of enemy literature and documents.”

       + =Spec= 118:392 Mr 31 ‘17 130w

  “He writes as one who brings to the study of contemporary history the
  habits formed in the great school which has grown up round the study
  of the French archives, and his work is as scientific, as documenté,
  as that of any German. ... It is much to be regretted that there is no
  index to the book.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p99 Mr 1 ‘17 1250w


=DANA, MARVIN.= Perfect memory. *$1 (7c) Clode. E: J. 154 17-24845

  How to have and keep a perfect memory is the thesis of Dr Dana’s
  hundred forty pages of practical instruction. He believes that whether
  a memory is good or bad anyone can improve it one thousand per cent,
  or more, by following the methods set forth in these pages. The scheme
  of mental control upon which he bases his instruction stresses
  concentration, visualization, necessity for the concrete, association
  of ideas and avoidance of the abstract. He points out the best
  results, and way to secure them, from memorizing lists, dates, names
  and faces. He says that the right kind of memory “means a mind in the
  plenitude of its vigor, growing, serene, energized, competent to every
  task; a mind that compels the respect of others, and, what is of
  deeper worth, maintains to the full one’s own self-respect, which is
  the foundation-stone whereon content is builded.”


=DANE, CLEMENCE.= Regiment of women. *$1.50 (1c) Macmillan 17-3574

  This book by a new writer recalls Hugh Walpole’s early novel “The gods
  and Mr. Perrin.” It is a study of the unwholesome conditions that may
  exist in a large school where pupils and teachers are so isolated from
  the active life of the world that emotional reactions are intensified
  to a dangerous degree. In this case it is a girls’ school and the
  teachers are women. Clare Hartill, a brilliant, selfish woman, who
  attracts girls to her, accepts their devotion for a time and then
  casts them off, is the central figure. One of the younger teachers,
  Alwynne Durand, becomes attached to her in much the same way that the
  sentimental schoolgirls do. The unnatural friendship is fortunately
  brought to an end by the intrusion of a more healthful outside
  influence. In an unobtrusive way the story offers an argument for
  co-education.

  “A detailed, well written study. ... Interesting, shows a real danger
  and suggests a remedy.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:266 Mr ‘17

  “The unsound morale of girls’ schools is caught powerfully. The
  morbid, unhealthy association of women among themselves, the strong
  affections, the intrigue, the jealousies, and the influence of the
  mistresses on the immature pupils, are admirably suggested. The
  atmosphere is heady. The reader longs for a man.”

         =Boston Transcript= p8 F 7 ‘17 350w

  “The book’s striking merit lies in the extraordinary fidelity of its
  picture. It does for the English girls’ school much what Mr Walpole’s
  ‘The gods and Mr Perrin’ did for the English boys’ school. The theme
  in both instances is the life of the teachers, rather than of the
  pupils.”

       + =Nation= 104:432 Ap 12 ‘17 650w

  “In a larger way, the book interprets the ingrowing emotionalism and
  moral sterility to which any community lacking the leaven of the
  opposite sex is prone.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 105:601 N 29 ‘17 90w

  “Miss Dane does not make manifest to the American reader sufficient
  reason for the fascination which her Miss Hartill is able to exercise
  over her associates in the school. Otherwise, it is a noteworthy
  picture of a scheming, clever, selfish, vain woman who has become,
  temperately, more or less abnormal. ... The book takes its title, in
  which ‘regiment’ is used in its old English sense of ‘rule,’ from John
  Knox’s ‘First blast of the trumpet against the monstrous regiment of
  women.’”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:33 F 4 ‘17 400w

       + =R of Rs= 55:555 My ‘17 80w

  “It is hard to believe that ‘Regiment of women’ is the first novel
  that its author, Clemence Dane, has written. ... This power of
  ‘creating’ and expressing character is usually the reward of nothing
  but long labour. ... The chief impression is one of wisdom: a shrewd
  penetration into human minds and the circumstances that mould or fix
  them, combined with an admirable ‘all-roundness’ of outlook upon human
  life.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p44 Ja 25 ‘17 550W


=DANILEVSKII, GRIGORII PETROVICH.=[2] Moscow in flames; tr. from the
Russian by Dr A. S. Rappoport. *$1.40 Brentano’s 17-31035

  “This is not, as the translator states, the first novel by this author
  to appear in English. Danilevskii (1829-90), already known in English
  by a novel dealing with Pougachev’s rebellion, called ‘The Princess
  Tarakanova,’ here presents the French invasion from the Russian point
  of view. The story covers the period 1812-53, and follows the fortunes
  of a young nobleman and his betrothed, a society beauty.”—Ath

  “It is vivid, full of historical detail, and a good specimen of its
  class, and is, of course, crammed with historic names.”

       + =Ath= p471 S ‘17 90w

  “The characters in ‘Moscow in flames’ are drawn with the flatness and
  remoteness of fresco; its incidents are strikingly unoriginal. But his
  comments on Russian life and character are not without shrewdness and
  piquancy.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:570 D 23 ‘17 450w

  “Allowing for the difficulties of translation, the author’s style is a
  little crude, judging by severe standards, and his character sketches
  weak. On the whole, however, the book is interesting, typifying, as it
  does, a popular Russian novel.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 160w


=DARBISHIRE, ARTHUR DUKINFIELD.= Introduction to a biology, and other
papers. il *$2.50 Funk 17-15695

  “The late Mr Darbishire, an accomplished young Oxford biologist, died
  of illness contracted in camp before he could complete his book. He
  had written a lively criticism of the materialistic theory of life,
  and just as he came to face the constructive side of his essay—‘Is the
  soul a mere aggregate symptom of a mechanism—the body? Or is the body
  not rather the instrument of the soul?’—he had to lay his pen aside.
  The scattered papers which have been collected by his sister, with a
  brief memoir, hint at the answer which he would have given. He was
  strongly influenced by Samuel Butler and by M. Bergson, but he was an
  original and fearless thinker and inquirer whom English science could
  ill spare.”—Spec

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 11 ‘17 550w

  “Unhappily the work is but a fragment. ... The essay, however
  unconvincing, is brightly written, for the author had a style of
  candid freshness and a gift of investing even trivial things with
  humorous interest. The charm of his personality is well brought out in
  the brief biographical sketch by his sister.”

     + — =Nature= 99:304 Je 14 ‘17 320w

       + =Spec= 118:441 Ap 14 ‘17 120w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p65 F 8 ‘17 1600w


=DARÍO, RUBÉN.= Eleven poems; tr. by T: Walsh and Salomón de la Selva;
introd. by Pedro Henríquez Ureña. (Pub. of Hispanic soc. of Am.) pa *75c
Putnam 861 16-22622

  Rubén Darío was born near León in the republic of Nicaragua in 1867,
  and died in that city in 1916. The introduction to this small book of
  poems says, “With the death of Rubén Darío, the Spanish language loses
  its greatest poet of to-day,—the greatest because of the æsthetic
  value and the historical significance of his work.” He visited the
  United States twice, and in 1915 was awarded the honorary medal of the
  Hispanic society of America. In this volume of poems the original
  Spanish text and the English translation are given on alternate pages.

  “They have that downpour of imagery, that cascade of beauties, of
  which the northern temper is slightly distrustful. Eleven poems,
  however, cannot embrace or test a man, particularly when the reader
  hesitates between the rush-light of his own imperfect Spanish and the
  charity of English renderings which are sometimes of real worth,
  sometimes bad beyond credence or pardon.” O. W. Firkins

     + — =Nation= 105:176 Ag 16 ‘17 170w

  Reviewed by Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p14 Mr 4 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:408 My ‘17


=DARK, SIDNEY.= Afraid. *$1.35 (1½c) Lane 17-2344

  “Courage is so common a quality,” says the author in one of the early
  chapters of this story, “that experience justifies us in believing
  that every one possesses it.” The story is a study of a boy who seemed
  born without it. From childhood Jasper Sedley had been afraid. Moral
  courage and intellectual honesty were his to a high degree, but the
  thought of physical suffering made him weak and helpless. His life at
  home and at school was made miserable. He made no friends and at a
  critical moment lost the woman he loved because he failed to go to her
  aid. One is made to feel that sympathetic treatment in childhood might
  have overcome the obsession, but it is left for the war to call out
  the latent courage in the boy’s soul.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:315 Ap ‘17

  “Real as may be his idea, I feel a lack of reality in the way he
  presents it. His people are too much the characters needed to enforce
  his idea, too little actual personalities with whom Jasper Sedley
  chanced to come in contact. ... More important than all this, the
  final event seems suggested by sentiment rather than a knowledge of
  what life actually is.” E: E. Hale

         =Dial= 62:145 F 22 ‘17 550w

       + =N Y Times= 22:31 Ja 28 ‘17 350w

  “We doubt if Mr Dark has solved his own problem, for his coward turns
  out to be no coward. The question really is whether it is a right
  instinct which leads society to ostracize the coward without
  considering his character as a whole.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p560 N 23 ‘16 350w


=DASENT, SIR GEORGE WEBBE.= East o’ the sun and west o’ the moon, and
other Norse fairy tales. il *$1.25 (1½c) Putnam 17-11576

  Thirty and more Norse fairy tales are brought together in this book.
  Gnomes and trolls and other figures of northern fancy appear in the
  tales. Some of them are new, others are variations of the familiar
  themes, among them the story of Snow-white and Rose-red.

  “These quaint tales will prove of interest to older readers as well as
  to the children for whom they were written. For some of them are
  reminiscent of ‘fairy stories’ of other lands, and prove again the
  common origin of the folk-lore of the European nations.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 4 ‘17 420w

  “Altogether charming.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:233 Je 17 ‘17 220w

  “Short, easily memorized fairy tales that will prove treasures to
  persons who have a knack of telling stories to children.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:664 Je ‘17 40w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 15 ‘17 180w

  “The tales themselves are delightfully old world in flavor and of
  appealing quaintness. This characteristic is occasionally marred by
  colloquialisms in which the translator indulges in order to make his
  meaning clear to young readers. The striking feature of the book
  consists of the bizarre illustrations by Kay Nielsen, a Danish artist,
  who, by going back to the original source of the stories, the Norske
  Folkeeventyr of Asbjornsen and Moe, has been able to get the utmost
  significance of the original rendering.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 D 21 ‘17 350w


=DAVIES, GEORGE REGINALD.= Social environment. (National social science
ser.) *50c (2c) McClurg 301 17-10388

  “How far does the accumulated knowledge and experience of the world
  modify the individual and give him control over biological factors?”
  is the question considered by the author of this book. He feels that
  the biological factor, with its emphasis on struggle and the survival
  of the fittest, has been too strongly stressed in reading the story of
  human development. His purpose is to set forth the importance of the
  spiritual factors, using the term spiritual to cover “the
  intellectual, artistic, and moral achievements of civilization.”
  Contents: The biological point of view; The evolution of the theory of
  evolution; The nature of society; Social environment and eugenics; The
  outlook for social organization. The author is assistant professor of
  history and sociology in the University of North Dakota and the book
  is published in a series of which Frank L. McVey, president of the
  University, is general editor.

  Reviewed by U. G. Weatherly

         =Am J Soc= 23:558 Ja ‘18 280w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:5 O ‘17

  “Professor Davies has hardly been fair to biology, while his emphasis
  on the ‘spiritual’ forces of society contributes nothing essentially
  new.” R. T. B.

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 73:245 S ‘17 130w

  “Hitherto there has been a dearth of literature emphasizing
  environmental forces in society. This little book should be welcome
  for its contribution to that neglected field.”

       + =Dial= 63:72 Jl 19 ‘17 180w

         =R of Rs= 56:440 O ‘17 70w

         =St Louis= 15:169 Je ‘17

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 20 ‘17 90w


=DAVIES, GERALD STANLEY.=[2] Renascence tombs of Rome. il *$6 Dutton 718

  “An unusual field, indeed one never before explored, is covered by
  this sumptuous volume, written by the master of Charterhouse school
  and published originally in England [in 1910].” (Boston Transcript)
  “The volume is divided into two parts, of which the first is given to
  discussion and criticism of the tombs and the artists who worked on
  them, with vivid biographical and historical comment, and the second
  to alphabetical and chronological lists of the churches and tombs;
  brief histories of the men in whose honor the monuments were designed,
  and the special and general indexes. The illustrations are half-tone
  reproductions from photographs, sufficient in number and, of course,
  indispensable as reference.” (N Y Times)

  “The beautiful illustrations add much to the descriptive nature of the
  text. Mr Davies writes with enthusiasm and with rare critical
  perception of values in this decidedly unusual field of examination.”
  E. J. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 31 ‘17 880w

  “Mr Davies has broken what is practically new ground with his valuable
  book, which, in addition to cautiously authenticated information,
  contains art criticism of the most brilliant and original character.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:357 S 23 ‘17 420w

         =R of Rs= 56:219 Ag ‘17 110w


=DAVIES, WILLIAM HENRY.= Autobiography of a super-tramp; with a pref. by
Bernard Shaw. *$2.50 Knopf 17-13447

  “The simple and quiet chronicle of a young man who tramped and
  begged—and now and then worked for a few weeks at a time—in America
  and England for many years. ... He tells us how tramps live, how they
  talk, what their ideals and their habits are. He has pictures of
  American ‘living conditions’—as the somewhat sententious phrase
  goes—that are nothing short of astonishing. He has had adventures, to
  boot. He has much to tell of cattlemen, of berry-pickers, of longshore
  labor camps on the Mississippi, of tramping and working and begging in
  city and country and summer resort through most of the eastern half of
  the United States and on into Canada, of remarkable beggars and expert
  thieves. Strange characters live in his pages. And his own life story
  is itself most strange.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 13:399 Je ‘17

  “A human document in the best sense of that much abused phrase. Not a
  phrase of it is overdone, not a word in it is egotistical, not a
  letter in it but spells the truthful story of a life that the world
  wants to know about.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 18 ‘17 1100w

  “A rather colorless narrative of unimpeachable verbal propriety
  relating the day-by-day experiences of the Welshman, who seems to have
  been an ordinary tramp until he began at thirty-four to write in
  really exquisite verse. The preface by Bernard Shaw, while it reveals
  still further the genial tolerance of that author, is not a
  particularly illuminating commentary on Mr Davies’ work or
  psychology.”

         =Cleveland= p83 Je ‘17 70w

  “Mr Davies is now an established poet, who no longer has to hawk his
  verses from door to door. His reputation, indeed, is considerable, and
  it may seem unfair to consider his first book of prose quite apart
  from his poetry. But if ‘The autobiography of a super-tramp’ has
  special interest, it is precisely because it shows how completely an
  unfamiliar medium may refract and distort the image of himself which a
  writer would convey. It is another lesson in sticking to one’s last.”
  G: B. Donlin

       — =Dial= 62:398 My 3 ‘17 1200w

  “His account is so casual that you would think he was living a
  regular, conventional life instead of that of a hobo. The book is
  unique.”

       + =Lit D= 56:42 Ja 12 ‘18 240w

  “He never grew into much of a Socialist; he has too much of the pure
  poet, yet reading his strong and simple picture of the incredible life
  of the poor, we become reconfirmed in our faith that the world must be
  set free, and society made friendly to the life or the tenderest and
  most innocent temperaments.” Irwin Granich

       + =Masses= 9:29 O ‘17 1650w

  “Mr Davies’s simplicity stands out delightfully with Bernard Shaw as
  sponsor. ... He will be read, and reread, for the sheer charm of his
  style. Yet, withal, he has so much to say that is of absorbing
  interest.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:159 Ap 22 ‘17 650w

  “His experiences are told realistically, but would be better for
  judicious condensation.”

     + — =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 40w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:670 O ‘17 80w

         =St Louis= 15:153 My ‘17 20w

  “‘All I have to say by way of recommendation of this book,’ says Mr
  Shaw (and his conclusion shall be mine), ‘is that I have read it from
  beginning to end, and would have read more of it had there been more
  to read.’” L: Untermeyer

       + =Yale R= n s 7:199 O ‘17 750w


=DAVIES, WILLIAM HENRY.= Collected poems. il *$1.25 Knopf 811 16-23556

  “This is not a complete edition of the poems of Mr Davies, as many
  people would gather from its title. It is what is probably a better
  thing: a book of poems selected by the poet from all the volumes he
  has published. He tells us in the prefatory note that it contains
  ‘what I believe to be my best pieces.’ A poet is not always the best
  judge of what is finest in his own work. But no one can know so well
  as he what best represents his own mind and mood, what gave him at the
  time of writing, and gives him still, the greatest pleasure, what is,
  if not his best, at least his most characteristic, poetry. That is
  what we get here from Mr Davies.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:256 Mr ‘17

  “Mr Davies has learnt much from Herrick, and uses his learning
  well—not in the least In the sense of plagiarizing, but by his clever
  choice and treatment of his subjects. The book is well worthy of a
  place in the library of any lover of poetry.”

       + =Ath= p592 D ‘16 50w

  “Mr Davies’s ‘Collected poems’ has the same magical expression as Mr
  de la Mare’s art, but with a firmer background in experience. ... The
  best critical opinion admits that the poems of William H. Davies are
  as likely to live as those of any English poet of his day.” W: S.
  Braithwaite

       + =Bookm= 45:436 Je ‘17 190w

  “The ‘Collected poems’ of William H. Davies will give pleasure to
  lovers of the lyric. Mr Davies, who tramped over most of this country
  and Canada as hungry and thriftless as other tramps, established
  confidential relations with birds and beasts, with flowers and trees
  on ‘the open road.’ Perhaps this is why his lyrics celebrate the
  minute, beautiful things of the ancient out of doors with effervescent
  joy.”

       + =Ind= 89:556 Mr 26 ‘17 150w

       + =Lit D= 54:134 Ja 20 ‘17 400w

  “Some of his little songs catch the charm of Herrick and Lovelace. ...
  His ‘The sleepers,’ ‘The little ones,’ ‘Whom I know,’ and other poems,
  show a deep sympathy with suffering humanity; but the intellectual
  understanding is not here. Davies is a delight; but the stuff is
  slight and echoey.” Clement Wood

     + — =N Y Call= p12 F 4 ‘17 400w

       + =R of Rs= 55:438 Ap ‘17 250w

  “This truly lyrical poet has everywhere a definite utterance. It is
  rarely complex, but it is always beautiful. ... Mr Davies, by the way,
  who is not so well known in this country as he deserves to be, will
  soon have an opportunity to broaden his acquaintance when a
  contemplated trip to America becomes a reality.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 5 ‘17 300w

  “A book of the most companionable poetry that any living man has given
  us. Mr Davies has not the energy, the eloquence, or the passion of Mr
  Masefield; he has not the scholarly workmanship which half adorns and
  half conceals the true imagination of Mr Binyon; he has not that
  magical charm, as of some singularly gifted and beautiful child, which
  is the special secret of Mr de la Mare. But none of these, nor anyone
  else, perhaps, manages to convert so much of ordinary life into poetry
  as Mr Davies. And that is the essence of poetic companionship.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p7 Ja 4 ‘17 1500W

  “Here is one of the most truly lyric voices in the world to-day.
  Lacking the sudden magic or the individuality of either Walter de la
  Mare or Ralph Hodgson, he shares with them an unstudied and always
  singing beauty.” L: Untermeyer

       + =Yale R= n s 7:201 O ‘17 480w


=DAVIESS, MARIA THOMPSON.= Heart’s kingdom. il *$1.35 (1½c) Reilly & B.
17-25432

  Charlotte Powers, a beautiful agnostic with a gift for leadership,
  returned from a winter in New York to her home in Harpeth Valley to
  find that a Methodist minister, Rev. Gregory Goodloe, who “resembled
  one of the big gold-colored lions that lived in the wilds of the
  Harpeth mountains,” had brought her circle of friends under his spell,
  so that they had taken to attending prayer meetings instead of dances,
  and had started to reform her father, for twenty years a drunkard. The
  book gives the story of her attempted marriage to Nickols Powers, his
  death, her conversion, and her conquest by the “Harpeth Jaguar” (as
  she called the Rev. Gregory) with the “jeweled eyes” to whom she “gave
  back a betrothal kiss that was as complete as a great red flower.”

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:340 N ‘17 30w

  “A doubtful mixture of poor theology and insipid romance.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 O 24 ‘17 190w

  “The best thing in the book is the sketch of the youthful Charlotte,
  the heroine’s ‘name-daughter,’ and her child companions.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:373 S 30 ‘17 260w

  Reviewed by Doris Webb

         =Pub W= 92:806 S 15 ‘17 250w


=DAVIESS, MARIA THOMPSON.= Out of a clear sky. il *$1 (3c) Harper
17-13185

  With a beautiful Belgian countess lost in the Tennessee forests, a
  very good looking young Tennessee farmer ready at hand to act as
  rescuer, and a search party, with authority from the Kaiser, in
  pursuit, you have the material for a modern romance. Céleste, countess
  of Berseck and Krymn, had fled to America after the fall of Louvain.
  The young prince, Louis Augustus, whom she had seemed fated to marry,
  was not at all a bad sort, but he was a German, and the marriage had
  been arranged by the hated Kaiser who had robbed her of all she loved.
  So the Countess fled—with a wicked uncle and other enemies following
  after. To evade them she drops off the train into an unknown world,
  which happens to be Tennessee, and there she finds Mr Bob Lawrence,
  his horse and his dog, all equally willing to serve her.

  “A charming little tale, bearing little apparent relation to the
  everyday affairs of reality, but full of tenderness and romance, and
  told with a very pretty naïve quality in its careful foreign English.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:218 Je 3 ‘17 230w

  “A romantic, improbable, modern fairy tale.”

       + =Pratt= p50 O ‘17 6w


=DAVIS, ARTHUR POWELL.= Irrigation works constructed by the United
States government. il *$4.50 Wiley 626.8 17-14071

  “Within less than fifteen years after the date of the first enabling
  legislation, the U.S. reclamation service expended about $100,000,000
  on the construction of numerous irrigation systems scattered over our
  vast western domain. ... Arthur P. Davis, chief engineer of the U.S.
  reclamation service, has described twenty-one of the twenty-five
  projects in the volume under consideration. ... Except for a brief
  introduction and a short final chapter summing up the achievements of
  the Reclamation service in terms of ultimate aim—‘Settlement and
  cultivation’—the entire book is devoted to descriptions of the various
  projects. The plan followed is to give the history and a general
  description of each project in a few sentences, and then to describe
  the works in their natural order, from dam and storage reservoir to
  water delivery to each farm unit. Besides the descriptions of
  structural works, the volume contains information on a variety of
  special topics.”—Engin News-Rec

  “Besides its value as an account of governmental enterprise in the
  reclamation of land, the book is a welcome addition to the literature
  of irrigation, and of dams, canals, pipe lines, and other structures
  common to hydraulic works.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:939 N 15 ‘17 500w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:662 O ‘17 20w


=DAVIS, CALVIN OLIN.= Public secondary education. $1 Rand 379.774
17-11119

  “The correct title of this book is ‘Public secondary education in
  Michigan.’ After devoting three chapters to the colonial Latin school,
  the middle period, and the early Northwest, the author begins his
  discussion with a chapter on early Michigan. Five chapters follow this
  one, the three most significant being one each on the academy
  movement, the union schools, and the high schools. It is in these
  chapters that one finds the explanation of current practices in
  secondary education in Michigan and to a certain extent in the nation
  at large.” (School R) “There is no attempt to bring the story down to
  date, contemporary tendencies being left to another book to be
  published later.” (El School J)

  “The first two chapters contain a short statement largely abstracted
  from Brown’s ‘The making of our middle schools.’ One is impressed with
  the fact that, in order to get a background for the detailed story of
  secondary education in Michigan, Professor Davis has felt obliged to
  condense an already available and almost classic discussion of the
  development of our secondary schools. The hurried reader, however,
  will find in these preliminary chapters a clear, fairly concise, and
  interestingly written background story which will orient him in his
  consideration of the problem of secondary education in Michigan.”

       + =El School J= 17:690 My ‘17 400w

       + =School R= 25:462 Je ‘17 200w


=DAVIS, CHARLES BELMONT.= Her own sort, and others. il *$1.35 (2c)
Scribner 17-7925

  Ten stories reprinted from Scribner’s, Collier’s and other magazines.
  The first is the story of a society girl who, deciding to earn her own
  living, becomes a moving picture actress. She is quite happy in her
  work till chance throws her in with her old associates. The old lure
  of the idle life calls her and she goes back to her own sort. Many of
  the others are stories of society, or at least of city life. Contents:
  Her own sort; The octopus; God’s material; The joy of dying; When
  Johnny came marching home; The professor; The twenty-first reason;
  Side-tracked; The men who would “die” for her; Her man.

  “Mr Davis has the gift of seeing the humorous situations in every day
  life.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 11 ‘17 400w

  “The make-up is always there; the puppets never become quite human. In
  the light of the author’s imagination ‘The octopus’ and ‘The
  professor’ may seem real, but to the rest of us they are stagy and do
  not arrive; they merely grimace and gesticulate.’ Exception may be
  made to ‘The joy of dying.’ It is a pathetic and gruesome little
  tragedy.”

       — =Dial= 62:484 My 31 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 5:73 My ‘17 30w

  “They are human and interesting stories, for all the cynicism in their
  picture of ‘the pleasure world.’”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:93 Mr 18 ‘17 320w

  “Short stories worth reading.”

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 4w


=DAVIS, GEORGE BRECKENRIDGE.= Elements of international law with an
account of its origin, sources, and historical development. 4th ed *$3
Harper 341 16-16751

  The fourth edition of this work has been prepared for publication by
  Gordon E. Sherman, formerly assistant professor of comparative and
  international law at Yale. Changes in the text have been slight. New
  matter added to the book is contained in appendixes. The extradition
  treaty between the United States and the Dominican republic, and the
  text of the Declaration of London are among the documents included. A
  supplementary bibliography is also added.

  “Professor Sherman found it necessary to rewrite important parts of
  the first two chapters. This he has done with discrimination and good
  judgment. In printing the Declaration of London he has added notes,
  referring to the bearing of its dispositions on the present war, as
  wrought out in practice. One could wish that his annotations of this
  nature had been more numerous, if not more extended.”

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:128 O ‘17 650w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:188 Ja ‘17

  “The most valuable additions are those in the appendix.” D. G. M.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:236 My ‘17 200w

       + =Educ R= 52:529 D ‘16 30w

  “The treatise of the late judge advocate general of the United States,
  and its representative abroad upon several occasions, is an
  authoritative and systematic statement of the best international
  practice of nations during both war and peace.”

       + =N Y Times= 21:406 O 8 ‘16 300w


=DAVIS, J. MERLE.= Davis, soldier missionary. il *$1.50 (1½c) Pilgrim
press 16-24706

  Jerome D. Davis, the subject of this biography was a
  lieutenant-colonel of volunteers in the Civil war and for thirty-nine
  years a missionary in Japan. This story of his life is written by his
  son, who is secretary of the International committee of Young men’s
  Christian associations in Tokio. In Japan Dr Davis was one of the
  founders of Doshisha university and the book gives a full account of
  the development and achievements of this institution.

       + =Bib World= 49:187 Mr ‘17 300w

  “Mr Davis has succeeded admirably. His father becomes to the reader a
  living person, the soldier who had the missionary spirit, the
  missionary who never lacked a soldier’s valor, a true man, of heroic
  temper shown in great deeds.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p12 Ap 7 ‘17 480w

  “A substantial volume of 350 pages, well illustrated and of compelling
  interest. ... Incidentally one gets in these chapters a history of the
  famous Doshisha controversy.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 4 ‘17 400w


=DAVIS, JOSEPH STANCLIFFE.= Essays in the earlier history of American
corporations. 2v ea *$2.50 Harvard univ. press 338.8 17-12885

  “This group of studies is presented as a modest contribution to the
  economic and social history of the United States before 1800,
  especially for the last decade or two of the eighteenth century.”
  (Preface) Volume 1 contains three studies: Corporations in the
  American colonies; William Duer, entrepreneur, 1747-99; The “S. U.
  M.”: the first New Jersey business corporation. Volume 2 is devoted to
  Eighteenth century business corporations in the United States. The
  author is instructor in economics in Harvard university and the work
  is published as volume 16 of the Harvard economic studies.

  “The work bears evidence of large and minute investigations of
  original sources. It is not taken for granted that standard authors
  are always accurate in their statements or conclusions. Errors in the
  dates assigned in complications of high authority to some important
  papers are fearlessly corrected.” S. E. Baldwin

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:185 O ‘17 1150w

  “In each volume there are appendices of useful illustrative material,
  and the second volume has an extensive bibliography. The work as a
  whole represents a comprehensive, if not an exhaustive, treatment of
  the topics considered; and should form an authoritative source of
  information.” J. A. F.

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:589 Ag ‘17 420w

  “The author has done his work well. These volumes make a distinct and
  welcome contribution to American economic history.” F. R. J.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:299 N ‘17 150w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 700w

         =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 30w

  “Mr Davis’s treatment of these subjects is such as to merit the
  gratitude of students both of economics and of history. Of the four
  essays of which the work is composed, the second and third, though not
  the most valuable, are certainly the most interesting. In these two
  essays we are brought face to face with many of the leading characters
  of the period. They are as valuable for the sidelights which they cast
  upon the politics of the day as for the economic information which
  they impart.”

       + =Nation= 105:511 N 8 ‘17 1550w

  “Two very interesting volumes which are based on statute books,
  letters, financial records, newspapers, reports, etc. The work is,
  indeed, an important contribution to the industrial and social history
  of the United States before 1800, and it should have a lasting and
  well-deserved reputation. ... There is a complete bibliography at the
  end of the second volume.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 11 ‘17 220w


=DAVIS, KARY CADMUS.= Productive plant husbandry. (Farm life text ser.)
il *$1.75 Lippincott 630 17-19170

  A text-book for high schools into more than 4,600 of whose curricula
  have been introduced courses in agriculture. The first six chapters
  are devoted to plant life and growth, and methods of improving plants;
  the next four, to soils and their improvement and maintenance; the
  body of the text deals with the various farm crops including fruits,
  vegetables, field crops and forestry; then follow three chapters on
  the enemies of crops—weeds, insects and diseases. In conclusion the
  writer discusses the business of farming and the rural community.

         =Pittsburgh= 22:664 O ‘17 30w

  “From the standpoint of its pedagogical merits the book is rather
  superior. ... The illustrations are numerous and clear and really
  illustrate the text. Teachers interested in texts in agriculture
  providing material for a one-year course will do well to examine
  Professor Davis’ book with some care before they select a text for
  their course.”

       + =School R= 25:612 O ‘17 220w


=DAVIS, RICHARD HARDING.= Adventures and letters of Richard Harding
Davis; ed. by C: B. Davis. il *$2.50 Scribner 17-30256

  “Richard Harding Davis was almost a legendary figure from his boyhood,
  and certainly no American has ever known how to extract so much
  adventure from life. As newspaper man, war-correspondent, soldier of
  fortune, and storyteller he had an unfailing knack of being on the
  spot where the greatest possible interest and excitement were going
  forward. But few of his readers, perhaps, knew that he was also an
  inveterate and a capital letter-writer. His brother, Charles Belmont
  Davis, has now collected his correspondence and woven it about the
  personal narrative of the author’s life. The book is copiously
  illustrated with portraits and photographs, many of them taken in
  various parts of the world by Davis himself.”—Lit D

  “They form a very interesting biography.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:127 Ja ‘18

         =Boston Transcript= p10 N 28 ‘17 1700w

         =Lit D= 55:41 D 8 ‘17 130w

  “His letters present an array of delightful, amusing, exciting
  adventures. The book is excellently edited, with a running narrative
  that is altogether readable and informative, and the photographs are
  really vivid illustrations of the matter of the book. We know few
  books more interesting.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:495 N 25 ‘17 1100w

  “Unconventional, lively letters.”

       + =Outlook= 117:614 D 12 ‘17 110w

  “Readers will lay down the book with the feeling that they have become
  personally acquainted with an interesting man. The explanation of this
  feeling of intimacy with the subject of the book is that his letters,
  a large portion of them written to his mother, reveal him as a likable
  man who loved human companionship, who made friends easily and who
  possessed many of the attractive and worth-while qualities which have
  made the heroes of fiction so deservedly popular.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 17 ‘17 1000w


=DAVIS, RICHARD HARDING.= Boy scout, and other stories for boys. il
*$1.25 (2½c) Scribner 17-24696

  Five stories that “go with especial directness to a boy’s heart and
  sympathies” have been chosen for inclusion in this book. They are: The
  boy scout; The boy who cried wolf; Gallegher; Blood will tell; and The
  bar sinister. “Gallegher” is an old favorite. “The bar sinister” has
  also had a number of years of popularity. The other stories are of
  later date.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:135 Ja ‘18

  “They are for readers of any age, boys included.” J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:498 D ‘17 140w

  “One cannot be too enthusiastic in recommending the story-telling
  power of Mr Davis. His dog story, ‘The bar sinister,’ is an ideal tale
  for boys who love a good and spirited account of animal nature.”

       + =Lit D= 55:54 D 8 ‘17 70w

         =Outlook= 117:219 O 10 ‘17 20w


=DAVISON, THOMAS RAFFLES.= Port Sunlight. il *$2 Scribner 710 17-14401

  “Port Sunlight is a model village established in England in 1888. As
  students of sociology are already familiar with its great practical
  and economic success, it is the purpose of this book ‘to emphasize the
  artistic and picturesque qualities of the village.’ To this end the
  book includes a little descriptive matter and a great many
  illustrations, photographs, sketches and plans. These show most
  conclusively the charming old English type of village which has been
  attained, a pleasure to the eye, an uplift to the spirit, without
  decreasing, but rather enhancing the practical value of the
  town.”—Boston Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:48 N ‘17

  “We are extremely sorry that the author limited himself to a record of
  the artistic and pictorial aspect of Port Sunlight, a subject so
  closely associated with the economic aspect of the place as to leave
  the reader unsatisfied if this also is not described.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 18 ‘17 180w

       + =Int Studio= 61:145 My ‘17 200w


=DAVRAY, HENRY D.= Lord Kitchener: his work and his prestige; with a
prefatory letter by Paul Cambon. 2s 6d T. Fisher Unwin, London (Eng ed
17-20979)

  “The well-known French littérateur gives us a graphic and effective
  portrayal of Kitchener’s work—a hastening, in some half dozen pages,
  over his earlier military career, and getting on page 29 to the
  outbreak of the European war and appointment of Kitchener to the war
  office. ... Appendices reproduce speeches by Lord Kitchener, memorial
  speeches in the House of commons, etc.”—Ontario Library Review

  “H. G. Croser’s ‘Lord Kitchener’ contains more biographical facts of
  his earlier career; Harold Begbie’s ‘Kitchener, organizer of victory,’
  is more popular, but, like this, only a sketch.”

       + =Cleveland= p126 N ‘17 60w

       + =Ind= 91:293 Ag 25 ‘17 110w

  “M. Davray followed events in England closely and on the spot; he has
  a keen eye and a gift of making the most of what he sees, and he
  applies these gifts successfully to Kitchener’s achievement in
  organizing the British military force.”

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:115 My ‘17 100w

       + =R of Rs= 57:221 F ‘18 30w

  “It is probable that one object of this life of Kitchener was to
  reassure the people of France in regard to Britain’s part in the war
  and Lord Kitchener’s ability and devotion at a time when the war
  minister was being violently assailed by Lord Northcliffe’s press.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 400w


=DAWSON, ALEC JOHN.=[2] For France (“C’est pour la France”); some
English impressions of the French front. il *$2 (6c) Doran 940.91

  “No other claim is made for the pictures, drawn and written, which are
  presented than that they record a few of the entirely independent and
  unbiased impressions formed by two English officers who were very
  kindly permitted by the French authorities to see something of the
  French army in the field.” (Preface) Captain Bairnsfather’s sketches
  of the “poilu” deal with him “often with a slight touch of caricature
  and always with humor and tenderness.” (N Y Times) The spirit of the
  French army is well brought out as is also the spirit of what Capt.
  Dawson calls “the reserved fighting line that is so finely held by the
  women of France.” One chapter, “The joyous ones” describes a battalion
  “recruited entirely as regards its rank and file, from the ranks of
  convicted criminals.” Some other chapters are: Paul Dupont, grocer;
  Paris; Dogs of war; One trench and another, and Verdun.

       + =Ind= 91:474 S 22 ‘17 150w

       + =Lit D= 55:48 O 13 ‘17 260w

       + =N Y Times= 22:261 Jl 15 ‘17 170w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:680 O ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:385 N ‘17 30w

  “The chapter on the war dogs is capital, as might be expected, since
  the author is an expert in that line. ... Captain Bairnsfather has
  made an effort to restrain his gift for comic types of a special
  English kind, and his best pictures are better, we think, than his
  English caricatures.”

       + =Sat R= 123:504 Je 2 ‘17 330w

  “While in the preface both disclaim any pretension at more than a
  cursory glimpse of a ‘few aspects of France in war time, as seen
  through uninformed English eyes,’ yet the reader will feel that much
  of the real spirit of the land and her people has been caught by these
  sympathetic visitors.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 O 26 ‘17 600w


=DAWSON, CONINGSBY (WILLIAM).= Carry on; letters in war-time; with an
introd. and notes by his father, W. J. Dawson. il *$1 (4c) Lane 940.91
17-15170

  The author is a graduate of Oxford university who, after one year at
  Union theological seminary, New York, decided to be novelist rather
  than a preacher, a decision which resulted in the publication in 1913
  of his “Garden without walls.” But in 1916 after the publication of
  “Slaves of freedom,” he left his home in Taunton, Mass., for the
  trenches, accepting a commission in the Canadian field artillery. The
  letters, which are most intimate and personal, were written to his
  family from dugouts on the Somme battlefront in the intervals of
  artillery fire. Their general point of view is well expressed by the
  Canadian slogan “Carry on” which the novelist’s father, W. J. Dawson,
  has used as the title of the book. “We’ve got to win,” writes
  Lieutenant Dawson, “so that men may never again be tortured by the
  ingenious inquisition of modern warfare.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:18 O ‘17

     + — =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 140w

  “He is particularly effectual in putting himself on paper, and his
  book affords a clear view into the theological soul. The best part of
  it is that his letters are so full of incident that unless you are
  particularly interested, you need not bother with the theological
  interpretation at all.”

     + — =Dial= 64:31 Ja 3 ‘18 650w

       — =New Repub= 11:340 Jl 21 ‘17 600w

  “From a literary point of view these intimate letters, written in
  dugouts by the light of a single candle and without thought of
  publication, are far and away the best work that Mr Dawson has ever
  done.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:257 Jl 8 ‘17 500w

  “They are characterized by vividness of impression, reality,
  sympathetic insight, and literary grace, and breathe the spirit of
  heroism, and are a challenge to heroism in others.”

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:114 My ‘17 40w

       + =Outlook= 116:376 Jl 4 ‘17 40w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:681 O ‘17 30w

         =Pratt= p39 O ‘17 10w

       + =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 40w

       + =St Louis= 15:314 S ‘17 30w

  “His letters are those of a serious, full-hearted young man, devoted
  to his own family, and endowed with a natural gift for writing.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p479 O 4 ‘17 90w


=DAWSON, CONINGSBY (WILLIAM).= Pincher Martin, O. D.; a story of the
inner life of the Royal navy. il *$1.50 Houghton (Eng ed 17-22561)

  “The cryptic—at least, to an American—letters after Pincher Martin’s
  name are English navy slang for ordinary seamen, and this book, by the
  author who prefers to be known as ‘Taffrail,’ is an entertaining
  account of navy life in peace and war, as experienced by an ordinary
  bluejacket. The story opens about a year or two before the outbreak of
  the war, and we meet Martin at the moment when he joins his first
  ship, the predreadnought battleship Belligerent. He remains on her
  until she is torpedoed and sunk, then serves on board a torpedo boat
  destroyer, the Mariner. As one of the Mariner’s crew he takes part in
  the Jutland fight, but before that occurs he has quite a number of
  adventures.”—N Y Times

  “There is, however, more comedy than tragedy in this tale of Pincher
  Martin, and some of it is very amusing.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:166 Ap 29 ‘17 330w

  “The book is a welcome tribute to our navy, and bears everywhere the
  signs of intimate knowledge.”

       + =Sat R= 122:sup6 D 9 ‘16 350w

       + =Spec= 117:809 D 23 ‘16 850w

  “Makes good its claim to be ‘a story of the inner life of the Royal
  navy.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p572 N 30 ‘16 450w


=DAWSON, CONINGSBY (WILLIAM).= Seventh Christmas. il *50c (8c) Holt
17-29180

  This is the story of the seventh birthday of Jesus. His mother Mary
  tells him the story of his birth, and the golden caskets given him by
  the Three wise men of the East are opened.

       — =N Y Call= p18 D 15 ‘17 180w

  “Coningsby Dawson’s ‘The seventh Christmas’ is so sweet a little
  legend that it has a value beyond the celebration of any particular
  feast.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:563 D 16 ‘17 410w

  “The delicate style of Coningsby Dawson, compact of feeling and fancy,
  would seem to have a congenial field in a legend about the boyhood of
  Jesus, but ‘The seventh Christmas,’ while it presents a pathetic
  picture of Joseph’s poverty-stricken home, does not rise to that
  imaginative ‘saturation’ essential to the undertaking.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 140w


=DAWSON, WILLIAM HARBUTT=, ed. After-war problems. *$2.50 Macmillan 304
17-24513

  “The four main sections of this important volume—‘Empire and
  citizenship,’ ‘National efficiency,’ ‘Social reform,’ and ‘National
  finance and taxation’—are headed, respectively, by chapters on
  ‘Imperial federation,’ by the late Lord Cromer; ‘National education,’
  by Lord Haldane; ‘The rehabilitation of rural life,’ by the Bishop of
  Exeter; and ‘National taxation after the war,’ by Prof. Alfred
  Marshall. The remaining fifteen chapters, which deal with a variety of
  topics, are by recognized authorities on the several subjects. Thus
  the two chapters treating of the relations between capital and labour
  are contributed by Mr G. H. Roberts, who writes from the standpoint of
  labour, and by Sir Benjamin C. Browne, who states the capitalist’s
  view; Mrs Fawcett writes on the position of women in economic life,
  Miss Margaret McMillan on the care of child life, Lord Meath on the
  cultivation of patriotism, Mr W. Joynson-Hicks on the land question;
  and so on. The introduction is contributed by the editor.”—Ath

  “The general impression left on the mind is that the essayists are
  satisfied with the ‘status quo ante’ in its main outlines, but seek
  for improvements in it. There is no deep analysis of the social and
  industrial system, and no questioning of its fundamentals. The book
  is, however, much more comprehensive in its scope than any that has
  previously appeared, and many of its chapters are worth careful
  reading.”

     – + =Ath= p341 Jl ‘17 1400w

  “These essays are weighty pronouncements, and the volume in its
  entirety demands careful study.”

       + =Ath= p355 Jl ‘17 180w

  “One receives from the reading of these candid, revelatory documents a
  feeling of pride in England’s willingness to learn, to adopt new
  methods, to look to the future with undaunted courage.” S. A.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 27 ‘17 500w

  “While the book presents a constructive national policy for England,
  it seems addressed to Englishmen not vitally interested in securing a
  vision of the needs of the British empire as a whole, or really
  concerned with international welfare. The spirit is, a world safe for
  England. But one raises the question, if each nation at the conclusion
  of war deliberately embarks upon a policy of national efficiency
  prompted solely by the desire to acquire foreign markets and to attain
  self-sufficiency at home, what will become of the fruits of the war to
  end wars, and will such a world be safe for anybody?” V. T. Thayer

     – + =Dial= 63:391 O 25 ‘17 1800w

  “Of particular interest is the study of imperial federation by the
  late Earl of Cromer, altho it comes to no particular conclusion.”

     + — =Ind= 92:58 O 6 ‘17 130w

  “We can do no more than commend the book to all who would understand
  the momentous social changes with which England is confronted, and
  what is being thought and planned regarding them. A survey on similar
  lines of our own after-the-war problems would be a task well worth
  undertaking.”

       + =Nation= 106:67 Ja 17 ‘18 750w

  “A certain lack of definiteness can be charged against some of the
  contributors; indeed, the book as a whole does not attain high
  importance. But changes are coming, and those who will be responsible
  for these changes will profit by the spirit of some chapters of the
  book, even if they are not always illuminated by the proposals. ...
  Among the most valuable chapters in the book because the most concrete
  is that of Viscount Haldane, whose subject is ‘National education.’”

 *   + – =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 16 ‘17 1550w

  “All of them are full of suggestions, most of them directed towards
  immediate practical ends. Perhaps that is regrettable; for it gives to
  the program as a whole too conservative a tone. National progress may
  be sustained for a time by various elements in the nation uniting upon
  the eradication of old and obvious evils; but a more sweeping flight
  of the imagination is required, a more prophetic vision of the future,
  if the magnificent mutual loyalty of the people shown during the war
  is to be translated into deeds for lasting human betterment. Margaret
  McMillan, for so many years ridiculed as a dreamer, until she proved
  by her work that vision and practical achievement go together, alone
  ‘unveils new horizons.’” Bruno Lasker

     + — =Survey= 39:255 D 1 ‘17 720w

  “Of the many publications dealing with after-war problems this volume
  is the fullest and most comprehensive that has yet appeared. Its scope
  is, of course, limited. ... The most serious omission is the absence
  of any reference to the development and utilization of the resources
  of the Empire. ... In the first group Lord Cromer’s examination of the
  relations between the United Kingdom and the other component parts of
  the Empire has the most actual value and interest. No man was better
  qualified to form a sound judgment on the subject.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p266 Je 7 ‘17 1850w


=DAWSON, WILLIAM JAMES.= Robert Shenstone. *$1.50 (1c) Lane 17-24210

  “In the midst of horrors, I have written this tale of joyous and
  adventurous youth.” The author is the father of Coningsby Dawson, now
  at the front, who wrote “Carry on.” Robert Shenstone, son of a country
  school-master, destined by his father for a clergyman, but preferring
  to be a poet, tells his own story. At sixteen, he is master in a boy’s
  school on the outskirts of London; later, he becomes secretary to a Mr
  Heron, an eccentric and a recluse, with a fine taste in literature and
  art. Shenstone perseveres with his own writing and finally has a play
  accepted by Henry Irving. Other characters are Robert’s father, who
  never realizes his own ambitions; his mother, who believes that “the
  life that gives is so much more than the life that gets”; his widowed
  aunt, Mrs Tabitha Shanley, to whom “the great thing in life is never
  to lose the spirit of adventure”; the other masters in the school;
  Edith Hopper, “lineal descendant of Lilith and Cleopatra,” who tries
  her wiles on them all; and Lucille Overberg, the beautiful girl, who
  tempted to renounce life thru fear, because of her mother’s expiation
  of a crime, finally decides “to accept thankfully the joy of the
  common day.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:94 D ‘17

  “‘Robert Shenstone’ is good. It is good—item one—as the pleasant and
  leisurely tale of a man’s young life. And it is good—item two—because,
  in addition to that, it is a mystery story of unusual plot.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:412 O 21 ‘17 1250w


=DAY, HOLMAN FRANCIS.= Where your treasure is; being the personal
narrative of Ross Sidney, diver. il *$1.50 (2c) Harper 17-17284

  A story of adventure by land and sea. It opens in the small eastern
  village where Ross Sidney spends his boyhood. He is a poor boy with
  little prospect in life, and he gives all his youthful adoration to
  Celene Kingsley, the daughter of the one wealthy man of the community.
  Circumstances drive him from home and he joins a wrecking crew along
  the Atlantic coast. When he returns to his home town it is to find
  Judge Kingsley in a difficulty from which he helps to extricate him. A
  misunderstanding with Celene, which her father might have explained
  away, again sends him on his wanderings. This time he goes to the
  Pacific coast where he ships as a deep sea diver. Here he meets
  another girl, who proves to be his real treasure, and he sees that his
  feeling for Celene was only a boyish fancy.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 11 ‘17 380w

       + =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 50w

  “The masculine sort of nonsense, the ‘rattling’ sort. As usual, Mr Day
  makes spirited work with his men, and tame and perfunctory work with
  his women. It is a long yarn, somewhat too long to rattle freely from
  start to finish. ... What one has to complain of is that so much of
  the fantastic tale is set ashore; for Mr Day’s illusion, his glamour
  at least, is soaked in salt water.”

       + =Nation= 105:149 Ag 9 ‘17 200w

  “It is a full-blooded, hot-headed story, told with all the naïve zest
  of youth, filled with the slang and the expletives and the picturesque
  similes of many kinds of hustling life, both honest and dishonest.
  There are graphic accounts of the diver’s work.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:245 Jl 1 ‘17 570w

  “The vigorous language of his sea faring folk is always amusing and in
  depicting their pursuits, whether ashore or afloat, he is faithfully
  realistic.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 420w


=DEAN, RUTH.= Livable house—its garden. (Livable house ser.) il *$2.50
Moffat 716 17-16081

  “A companion work to Aymar Embury’s ‘Livable house’ is provided by
  Ruth Dean in ‘The livable house, its garden.’ In sympathy with the
  spirit of efficiency, the author aims to combat indifference or
  ignorance in the development of grounds about the home. A secondary
  purpose is to aid the amateur landscape architect in avoiding the
  mistakes into which his ignorance of plant life and values are
  likely to lead him. ... One hundred photogravures effectively
  illustrate the results for which the author gives the fullest
  directions. The book is divided into five sections: The garden as a
  whole; General planting; The flower garden; Times and seasons, and
  Garden architecture.”—Springf’d Republican

       + =Cleveland= p113 S ‘17 20w

  “Miss Dean is a landscape architect of experience, and her suggestions
  are invariably practical.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:331 S 9 ‘17 270w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:651 O ‘17 20w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 500w


=DEANE, RICHARD BURTON.= Mounted police life in Canada. il *$1.50 Funk
971.2 17-1608

  “From an experience of thirty-one years in the mounted police service,
  the author gives an account of pioneer days in the great Canadian
  Northwest and of the feats of daring which invested the force with the
  glamor of romance.” (A L A Bkl) “A long account is given of the trial
  of Louis Riel for treason.” (Ath)

  “A vigorous, manly style makes the book very readable.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:394 Je ‘17

       + =Ath= p483 O ‘16 20w

         =Pratt= p44 O ‘17 30w

       + =Spec= 117:480 O 21 ‘16 160w

  “A document which will be invaluable to the historian that is to come
  of the Last West. It is full of episodes and thronged with
  personalities, introduced in a soldier style with an occasional touch
  of the parade rasp, which would help a modern variant of Francis
  Parkman to many a stirring, significant passage.”

       + =The Times= [London] Lit Sup p463 S 28 ‘16 600w


=DEEPING, WARWICK.= Martin Valliant. *$1.40 (1½c) McBride 17-10202

  A historical romance of the time of Richard III. Martin Valliant is a
  monk. The son of a notorious old fighter, young and full of life and
  strong of arm, Martin spends his days in a priory, telling his beads
  and mortifying the flesh to save the soul. His monkish companions,
  holy men in name only, have laid a plot to try Martin’s virtue. He
  puts temptation away from him. Then Mellis Dale comes his way. She is
  a girl, tho a brave one, and alone and beset by enemies, and in taking
  her part, Martin comes out of his cell and throws off his monk’s robe
  to become a man.

  “Lovers of realism and of nothing but realism will not be pleased with
  this story. It is not for them. But to those who have the zest of
  adventure in their souls, to those who believe in the brave old school
  of fiction that leads man and woman onward through the old world of
  imminent dangers, it will make an intimate appeal. It is a story
  without a problem and with no mission but to entertain. And what
  better mission could it have?” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 28 ‘17 1100w

  “With ‘Unrest’ labelled for America ‘Bridge of desire,’ Mr Warwick
  Deeping recently made a not very happy attempt to pin us down to our
  own world. There he deliberately threw over the romantic code to
  which, in his tales of old time, he had dutifully clung. ... He has
  returned to his machine. ... But the whole thing is a contrivance,
  rather cynically rigged up by an expert.”

       — =Nation= 104:459 Ap 19 ‘17 400w

  “Never, unless memory be at fault, has he given us a romance in which,
  with no abating of swift movement or of the number of thrilling
  episodes, the characters were at once so human and so likable as are
  the hero and heroine in this tale.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:94 Mr 18 ‘17 500w


Defenders of democracy; ed. by the Gift book committee of the Militia of
mercy.[2] President’s ed il *$2.50 Lane 940.91 17-27863

  This anthology of miscellaneous contributions has commendatory
  forewords by Woodrow Wilson, Lord Northcliffe, Theodore Roosevelt and
  others. Many countries besides our own are represented in the table of
  contents, among them Belgium, China, France, Great Britain, Greece,
  Italy, Japan, and Latin America. Among the American contributors are
  Charles W. Eliot, Mary Austin, Robert W. Chambers, Louis Untermeyer,
  Fannie Hurst, Amy Lowell, Myron T. Herrick and Amélie Rives. A
  frontispiece in color by Childe Hassam is one of the pictorial
  features. The proceeds from the sale of the book go to the aid of
  needy families of the men of the naval militia.

  “Contains much of valuable information, many a stirring paragraph of
  description, appreciation, or narrative, and, not least surely, more
  than one challenge to thought.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:540 D 9 ‘17 950w

  “There is something here to entertain every one, even if he opens the
  book with a prejudice against such collections.”

       + =Outlook= 118:32 Ja 2 ‘18 60w


=DE GROOT, CORNELIA.= When I was a girl in Holland. (Children of other
lands books) il *75c (2½c) Lothrop 914.92 17-24724

  The author of this book for American boys and girls was born in
  Deersum, a village in the province of Friesland, and there are a
  number of photographic illustrations showing scenes from this
  childhood home. She writes of; Our house; How we dressed; Our village
  school; Some of our games; Our holidays; Farm life; The kermis; Our
  canal-boats; On skates, etc. When she was twenty-one the author came
  to America and she now makes her home in California.

  “A matter-of-fact account. It is none the less interesting and will
  give children about eleven or twelve some idea of actualities beyond
  picturesque wooden shoes and windmills.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:136 Ja ‘18

  “The book bears the mark of genuine experience and faithful
  observation.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 30w

  “Altogether delightful. The illustrations from photographs are well
  chosen.”

       + =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 40w

  “Her chapters descriptive of Holland are full of color and
  information, and her literary style is simple and direct.”

       + =Lit D= 55:54 D 8 ‘17 90w

         =N Y Times= 22:389 O 7 ‘17 50w

  “What a child saw and heard in Holland makes a particularly
  interesting narrative, and the book will be read by children and older
  people alike with pleasure.”

       + =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 50w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 1 ‘17 110w


=DEJEANS, ELIZABETH (JANES) (MRS SIDNEY BUDGETT).= Tiger’s coat. il
*$1.50 (1½c) Bobbs 17-7810

  A Nebraska city gives this story its setting but the woman of mystery
  who is its central character has a background that includes Mexico,
  Paris and Belgium in the early days of the war. Driven out of the
  war-ridden countries she comes to Laclasse, presenting herself to
  Alexander MacAllister as his kinswoman and showing letters that
  support her story. But one doesn’t know how much of the story is to be
  believed, and one doesn’t know whether to like or dislike Marie. This
  is the interest that holds the story together, but it has other points
  deserving of notice, one of them its excellent character portrayal,
  another the author’s fairness in her attitude toward the
  German-Americans of the Middle West.

  “A rather lifeless affair of good promise and of weak fulfilment. ...
  The story may be described as a series of anticlimaxes.”

       — =Dial= 62:403 My 3 ‘17 110w

         =N Y Times= 22:258 Jl 8 ‘17 180w

  “The romance is well built up, and, on the whole, well written, though
  a trifle feverish in parts.”

     + — =Outlook= 115:668 Ap 11 ‘17 50w

  “While the plot is of the stuff from which melodramas are made, the
  generally good character drawing gives the book substantiality.” R. D.
  Moore

         =Pub W= 91:584 F 17 ‘17 400w

  “The story, though not without vigor, is more romantic and less
  restrained than this author’s previous novel.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 1 ‘17 400w


=DE KOVEN, ANNA (FARWELL) (MRS REGINALD DE KOVEN).= Counts of Gruyère.
il *$2 (6c) Duffield 949.4 17-93

  The author has written the history of Gruyère, a town in the canton of
  Fribourg, Switzerland. In a prologue the “little castled city” is
  described. Then come the following chapters: Origin of the people;
  Influence of the church; Sovereignty of the House of Savoy; Foreign
  wars; The Burgundian wars (Count François I); The Burgundian wars
  (Count Louis); Struggle for succession; Religious reform; The fall of
  the House of Gruyère; Gruyère without its counts. There is a
  bibliography of three pages. The book is beautifully illustrated, with
  a frontispiece in color.

  “Mrs de Koven has the instinct for historical narrative, together with
  a comprehension of the human side of the matter. She shows us how
  character and historical fact inter-act; she helps us to live in the
  times of which she writes.” R. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 F 10 ‘17 450w

       + =Ind= 89:273 F 12 ‘17 60w

       + =Lit D= 54:770 Mr 17 ‘17 140w

  “Mrs de Koven, who, in addition to her other literary work,
  established herself a few years ago as a biographical authority upon
  the life of John Paul Jones, gives fresh proof in this charming volume
  of her marked gifts as a historian.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:6 Ja 7 ‘17 450w

  “The story of the long reign of the Counts of Gruyère is most
  picturesque. In no other way do we get so clear a picture of feudalism
  in Switzerland or so graphic an interpretation of its spirit.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:217 F ‘17 110w


=DELAFIELD, E. M.= Zella sees herself. *$1.50 (2c) Knopf (Eng ed
17-24709)

  Zella de Kervoyou, child of a French father and English mother,
  educated in a convent school, “from the time she is seven years
  old ... is constantly shifting her standards to conform to those of
  the particular environment in which she happens to find herself. The
  book is practically the story of the lies, the evasions, the
  hypocrisies, the heartaches which spring from Zella’s desire to be
  always charming, agreeable, superior.” (N Y Times)

  “It has none of that shallow brilliancy, that self-conscious
  cleverness, that clap-trap humour, which marks in every age the work
  of the tribe of gentlemen (and ladies) who write with ease. It turns a
  clear, warm, smiling gaze on life and interprets it to us in the very
  act of making us, too, smile at it. That was Jane Austen’s white
  magic.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:489 D ‘17 550w

  “It is a comedy of youth, in the sense in which Jane Austen’s stories
  may be so called. It has a certain analogy to what was probably also
  Miss Austen’s first effort, ‘Northanger abbey,’ and in its quiet
  precision of characterization and dialogue as well as in its well-nigh
  unerring satirical touch, it measurably suggests the great mistress of
  British fiction.”

       + =Nation= 105:515 N 8 ‘17 360w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 105:601 N 29 ‘17 90w

  “This unusual and complex study of character is told with a lightness
  and mastery of touch and a delightful, pervasive humor not often met
  in the ordinary run of novels.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:380 O 7 ‘17 550w

  “Miss Delafield has drawn her heroine with sympathetic understanding.”

       + =Sat R= 123:sup4 My 19 ‘17 230w


=DE LA MARE, WALTER JOHN.= Peacock pie. il *$2 Holt 821 (Eng ed
16-21123)

  A book of rhymes for children, with illustrations by W. Heath
  Robinson. There are nonsense verses, romantic tales, and lovely
  lyrics. Up and down, Boys and girls, Three queer tales, Places and
  people, Beasts, Witches and fairies, Earth and air, and Songs, are the
  divisions of the book.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:439 Jl ‘17

       + =Ath= p54 Ja ‘17 40w

  “Yet even in his poems for children he is more than a poet for
  children. Each year-laden reader who can look through the magic
  casement of Mr de la Mare’s verses will see among the shadowy figures
  that flit about the moon-silvered lanes a tiny ghost that was once
  himself.” M. M. Frank

       + =Bookm= 46:89 S ‘17 950w

  “Mr de la Mare is not an innovator, and his scope is not great; but
  within his scope he has no superior.” Conrad Aiken

       + =Dial= 63:150 Ag 30 ‘17 160w

  “Mostly they are nothing more than the pleasing little fancies which
  Mr de la Mare can so well conjure out of faery, fashioned with that
  lyric felicity which is not the least notable attribute of all the
  Georgians whose names are worth recounting and of Mr de la Mare in
  special.” J. T. W.

       + =New Repub= 12:279 O 6 ‘17 450w

  “Peacock pie was once a royal dish; this book is a royal dish.”
  Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p14 Je 24 ‘17 200w

  “One might exhaust lists of adjectives and yet fail to bring the
  reader the flavor, the awe, the delight, the haunting terror of this
  collection of verse, ‘Peacock pie.’”

       + =R of Rs= 56:217 Ag ‘17 220w

  “From cover to cover, the most captious critic may hardly find a poem
  that is not a joy to meet and to keep.”

       + =Sat R= 123:232 Mr 10 ‘17 950w

  “In the years that have passed since Stevenson brought out his
  ‘Child’s garden of verses’ we have not seen a prettier book of rhymes
  for children than this. ... The poet, in this new edition, is
  fortunate in his sympathetic illustrator, Mr W. Heath Robinson, whose
  charming designs reflect by turns the gaiety and sentiment of the
  verses.”

       + =Spec= 118:21 Ja 6 ‘17 200w

  “The poetry in these two little volumes is, perhaps, the purest poetry
  for children that has ever been made; Blake and Stevenson not
  forgotten.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p604 D 14 ‘16 850w


=DELAND, LORIN FULLER.= At the sign of the dollar, and other essays.
*$1.25 (3c) Harper 304 17-8762

  The title essay, a discussion of advertising and an appeal for more
  attention to human nature on the part of those engaged in business, is
  reprinted from Harper’s Magazine for March, 1917. Some of the other
  papers have appeared in the Atlantic Monthly. The complete table of
  contents reads: At the sign of the dollar; Football at Harvard and at
  Yale as seen in 1910; Some have greatness thrust upon them; A plea for
  the theatrical manager; The Lawrence strike; a study; Concerning X107.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:14 O ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:183 Je ‘17

  “Mr Deland’s study of the Harvard-Yale football situation is one of
  the most interesting things he has to offer, but it must have been
  written before Harvard’s string of successes in the last five years.
  Mr Deland makes it plain that he considers Walter Camp the genius of
  American football.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 25 ‘17 420w


=DELANO, MRS EDITH (BARNARD).= Tomorrow morning. il *$1.35 (2½c)
Houghton 17-25434

  This, “a chronicle of the new Eve and the same old Adam,” is the story
  of the married life of a young couple in the thirties, which, in spite
  of complications that threaten to make trouble between them, ends
  happily. Martha, the “new Eve,” devoted both to her children and to
  social work, discovers that although it is already in the affairs of
  men and women “tomorrow morning,” “the millennium is a long way off,”
  and so to keep the love of the “same old Adam,” she models her conduct
  for a time upon that of the “old Eve.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:130 Ja ‘18

  “Martha is an attractive heroine, and little Cecily, whose passion for
  telling the truth made her a most disconcerting person to have about,
  a real and amusing child. The life of the little western city in which
  the action takes place is well portrayed, and the busy life of the
  modern woman neatly and sanely sketched.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:469 N 11 ‘17 370w

  “A domestic comedy written with charm and humor.”

       + =Outlook= 117:510 N 28 ‘17 8w

  “Quite aside from the message that it carries, Mrs Delano’s book is
  interesting for the skill with which she has managed her characters.
  The study of Bob Ramsey with his blundering, masculine ways, is
  particularly well done, Martha Ramsey, with her brilliant intellect,
  her self-control and her uncanny shrewdness, is a little overdrawn.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 340w


=DELL, ETHEL MAY.= Hundredth chance. il *$1.50 (1c) Putnam 17-10669

  The hero of Miss Dell’s latest story is a horse trainer and accustomed
  to work to win even if he sees only the “hundredth chance” of success.
  This is all that is his when he loves Maud Brian, the beautiful but
  penniless daughter of Sir Bernard Brian. But the marriage of her
  mother to a scoundrel and the dependence of her lame brother cause the
  girl to accept marriage with him on terms of her own choosing. An
  added obstacle to the trainer’s hopes is the appearance of Lord
  Saltash, his employer and the former fiancé of his wife. In spite of
  the heavy odds against him, his patience and devotion at last break
  down social differences and win him the deep affection of his wife.

  “Readers of popular fiction will no doubt revel in the rough-diamond
  hero and the plausible villain, the atmosphere of the racing stable,
  etc.; but the whole has been much better done many times already, and
  if this sort of book did not continue to appear, classics might
  receive more attention.”

       — =Ath= p311 Je ‘17 100w

  “Once the major premise of her story is accepted there is nothing
  forced or unnatural in the situations themselves.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 26 ‘17 330w

  “Her method proves that Victorianism is by no means played out, may
  indeed be rendered freshly effective by a slight tincture of modern
  ‘frankness’ in the treatment of sex. Her present heroine is the chill,
  snobbish little prude whom our fathers admired—at least in fiction.”

       — =Nation= 105:16 Jl 5 ‘17 250w

  “The chief criticism of the book lies, not in its conventional
  situation and artificial character treatment—for neither of these
  detract seriously from the simple enjoyment of it as an entertaining
  story—but in the undeniable and glaring fact that none of its people
  seem to know the most fundamental standards of behavior or of speech.
  They irritate and alienate where they should hold the novel reader’s
  sympathy.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:202 My 20 ‘17 280w

  “A strong and interesting story, developed with skill and good taste,
  and is by all odds the best the author has ever written.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 400w

  “It is all a wonderfully exciting length of distressing
  misunderstandings, but we are up-borne throughout by the confident
  anticipation that Miss Dell will never balk us of a happy ending. ...
  There is equal certainty, too, that though often dealing with the most
  delicate and difficult situations Miss Dell will skim over the thin
  places without ever offending our taste.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p236 My 17 ‘17 400w


=DELL, ETHEL MAY.= Safety curtain, and other stories. il *$1.50 (1½c)
Putnam 17-29862

  The title story of the five in this volume introduces as the
  principals a man and woman quite out of the ordinary. He is a major in
  the Indian army—home on leave. She is an elf-like dancer. The
  safety-curtain that dropped behind her at a moment when the stage is
  aflame is symbolized by the act of the man whose rescuing of her marks
  the beginning of a new sensation—that of protection. How, in India
  whither she goes as a bride, her odd little nature expands in the
  warmth of the new influence; how ghosts of the past try to rob her of
  her happiness; and how the strength of the man overcame them is all
  told in spirited fashion. The other stories are: The experiment; Those
  who wait; The eleventh hour; The place of honour.

       + =Ath= p679 D ‘17 80w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p542 N 8 ‘17 150w


=DELLENBAUGH, FREDERICK SAMUEL.= George Armstrong Custer. (True stories
of great Americans) il *50c (1c) Macmillan 17-1602

  Elizabeth B. Custer, herself the author of one of the best known
  accounts of her husband’s campaigns, has written a preface to this
  book, commending it for its accuracy and fairness. The story of
  General Custer’s boyhood is told briefly and this is followed by a
  very full account of his services in the Civil war and on the plains.

  “Written chiefly for young people by a man who knew the West of
  Custer’s day and was an early explorer of the Grand Canyon.”

       + =Cleveland= p83 Je ‘17 40w

       + =Cleveland= p127 N ‘17 30w

       + =N Y Times= 22:181 My 6 ‘17 60w

       + =R of Rs= 55:442 Ap ‘17 140w

  “Gen. Custer’s biographer is a man who knew the West in Custer’s day
  and who had even less sympathy than honest Custer for the abuses of
  the Indian agencies where Indians and government were alike robbed by
  the most flagrant of grafters. ... It is a chapter of national
  dishonor that Mr Dellenbaugh relates. But the picture of Custer is
  always that of a hero.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 6 ‘17 300w


=DEL MAR, ALGERNON.= Tube milling; a treatise on the practical
application of the tube mill to metallurgical problems. il *$2 McGraw
622.7 17-13102

  “The author states that in the preparation of ores for concentration,
  cyanidation, and flotation, intermediate grinding by conical and
  cylindrical tube mills will eventually supersede the work now largely
  done by stamps, rolls, and chilian mills. General principles are
  discussed and the construction and operation of the different types
  explained. Chapter 5 deals with the adaptability of wrought iron and
  alloy steels as materials of construction.”—N Y P L New Tech Bks

         =Cleveland= p110 S ‘17 20w

  “Mr Del Mar’s book is worth placing in every mill-man’s library, where
  it will serve as a ready reference for the tube-mill operator.”

       + =Engineering and Mining Journal= 103:1083 Je 16 ‘17 100w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p18 Jl ‘17 70w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:662 O ‘17 10w


=DENCH, ERNEST ALFRED.= Advertising by motion pictures. *$1.50 Standard
pub. co. 659 16-25184

  “The use of motion pictures as an advertising medium is not confined
  to any one business or profession. It is adapted to wholesale as
  well as to retail business. Moreover, it possesses unique
  ‘business-pulling’ properties. It has, however, like all methods,
  limitations. These as well as its far greater number of advantages,
  Mr Dench sets forth with admirable brevity and candor.”—Boston
  Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 13:295 Ap ‘17

  “Extremely up-to-date book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 31 ‘17 250w

  “Despite a curious belief in the value of slang as a medium for
  imparting information and ideas, the subject is comprehensively and
  authoritatively treated.”

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17


Deportation of women and girls from Lille. *50c Doran 940.91 A17-371

  A volume containing a translation of “the note addressed by the French
  government to the governments of neutral powers on the conduct of the
  German authorities toward the population of the French departments in
  the occupation of the enemy,” together with “extracts from other
  documents, annexed to the note, relating to German breaches of
  international law during 1914, 1915, 1916.” (Title-page) Both French
  and German documents are presented; also private letters. The title is
  inexact since the deportations included men and boys as well as women
  and girls.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:395 Je ‘17

  “The chief value of this collection lies in the fact that it presents
  original data with little or no comment. Unlike the many books which
  have been published on this phase of the war, it is not sensational
  but aims to be a plain statement of fact.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:363 My ‘17 150w

         =Cleveland= p58 Ap ‘17 40w

  “In the letters it is more than once stated that German officers and
  soldiers refused to carry out the deportation order and were confined
  for disobedience within the fortress of Lille.”

         =Ind= 90:298 My 12 ‘17 50w

  “The entire compilation comprises one of the most striking
  illustrations of the horrors of war that has yet been published.” J.
  W.

         =N Y Call= p14 Mr 11 ‘17 330w


=DE SÉLINCOURT, HUGH.= Soldier of life. *$1.50 (1½c) Macmillan 17-2025

  Outwardly this is a pathological study of a crippled soldier’s mental
  state, but, more deeply, it cuts down into human nature to reveal the
  eternal conflict between the great constructive force, love, and the
  destructive forces that find their final and supreme expression in
  war. This revelation comes to James Wood thru Corinna Combe, and it
  comes only after he has struggled against the menace of depression and
  threatened insanity, after he has failed to find consolation in a
  common-sense view of life, which urged marriage with a cheerful,
  trivial, common-sense sort of girl, or comfort in religion. War has
  been to him a horror and a desecration, and his sanity is saved only
  when, thru Corinna, he comes to understand its basic origin.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:402 Je ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 45:96 Mr ‘17 400w

  “It can scarcely hope to find a universal appeal, but will undoubtedly
  be of interest to those who enjoy the abnormal.” R. W.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 F 24 ‘17 300w

       + =Ind= 90:257 My 5 ‘17 70w

  “Whatever weakness the book may have as a story, however, it throws
  raw light, in its picture of the moral and spiritual disintegration
  which war may bring to the unhappy warrior, upon a common horror which
  the belligerent world, waving its flags and chorusing its mottoes,
  chooses to leave in darkness.”

     + — =Nation= 104:369 Mr 29 ‘17 350w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Nation= 104:404 Ap 5 ‘17 140w

  “It will not be strange if Mr de Sélincourt’s book turns out to have
  been one of the most significant of all that come out of the war. ...
  It is the quintessence of war literature. ... It traces the delicate
  spiritual effects as no other book has yet succeeded in doing. ... You
  have only to compare it with Mr Britling to get the contrast of its
  fineness with Wells’s blowsiness of spirit, that utterly pedestrian
  and easy way in which the re-discoverer of God dresses up again the
  rumpled soul of middle-class Britain and sets her decently on parade
  again. ... Mr de Sélincourt, perhaps unconsciously, has done in the
  novel what Bertrand Russell is saying impersonally.” Randolph Bourne

       + =New Repub= 11:85 My 19 ‘17 1200w

  “One cannot read it without being stirred to deeper thought and higher
  feeling.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:33 F 4 ‘17 500w

  “From the very first, its dramatic and analytical power hold the
  reader’s attention and carry him thru the hero’s struggles with an
  interest seldom roused by such a subject. It is more plain human than
  abnormal. ... This is as deeply thoughtful a book as any the war has
  inspired, and one, besides, of beautiful texture and style.” E. P.
  Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 91:587 F 17 ‘17 350w

  “‘A soldier of life’ is a thoughtful—almost spiritual—study of the
  effect of war, and affords food for thought.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Mr 25 ‘17 460w

  “Perhaps its differentia and its most notable merit are its success in
  expressing high and difficult matters in terms of a mere man and his
  human affairs, linked by a carefully forged chain of thought and
  incident to the complete ‘normality’ of the opening chapters.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p560 N 23 ‘16 560w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:127 Ap ‘17 90w


=DESSON, GEORGES.=[2] Hostage in Germany; auth. tr. by Lee Holt. il
*$1.50 Dutton 940.91 (Eng ed War17-84)

  “A graphic account, by a distinguished French engineer, of his
  detention as a hostage in Germany for eleven months, with a number of
  his compatriots. The hardships and sufferings endured by the party
  were exceedingly severe. The pretext for the imprisonment was that
  some German subjects were alleged to have been ill-treated in Morocco.
  The illustrations show some of the places of confinement.”—Ath

  “He records the suffering and misery of his experiences with the
  relieving brightness and humor that characterized him and his nine
  companions in their otherwise unendurable imprisonment.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:88 D ‘17

       + =Ath= p258 My ‘17 80w

         =Outlook= 117:144 S 26 ‘17 40w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:761 N ‘17 60w


=DESTRÉE, JULES.= Britain in arms (French title, L’effort britannique).
*$1.50 (3c) Lane 940.91 17-25445

  “M. Destrée—a Belgian writer who, during a stay of some months in
  Italy, came to the conclusion that England’s efforts in the war were
  not sufficiently realized by our Italian allies, and was thus led to
  lay the facts before them—has written a French version of ‘Cio che
  hanno fatto gli Inglesi.’ The translation, by Mr J. Lewis May, is now
  before us. How England, though anxious for peace, found herself
  involved in the war; her naval, military, financial, and industrial
  efforts; the union of kingdom and empire; and the reasons why our
  Allies should have confidence in England, are some of the topics to
  which M. Destrée addresses himself.” (Ath) The preface is by Georges
  Clemenceau.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:88 D ‘17

       + =Ath= p475 S ‘17 100w

  “If an Englishman had written this book we would regard it as a piece
  of self-satisfied laudation. Coming from a Frenchman, who has given
  the widespread patrol work of the British fleet and the astonishing
  development of the British army careful investigation, the book falls
  short of overpraise, but is singularly just.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 27 ‘17 280w

  “The book, by the author’s confession, was hurriedly written; it is
  propagandist; but its laudable object is to fortify international
  confidence as ‘a preparation for the better days to come’; and it
  makes inspiring reading.”

       + =Dial= 63:594 D 6 ‘17 420w

         =R of Rs= 56:549 N ‘17 30w

  “M. Jules Destrée discovered a suspicion in Italy that England was not
  ‘pulling her weight’ in the war. It is a suspicion at which we have no
  right to be angry, for very similar suspicions of Italian slackness
  have sometimes been entertained in ill-informed circles in England;
  and this suspicion, in both cases, has been due to misapprehensions
  arising out of an excusable ignorance. ... He could have got a preface
  from no more appropriate author than M. Clemenceau, who has frequently
  insisted, in L’Homme Enchainé, that an estimate of our contribution to
  the war must take cognizance of work done in the factories as well as
  in the field.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p302 Je 28 ‘17 750w


=DEWEY, JOHN, and others.= Creative intelligence. *$2 (1½c) Holt 104
17-6640

  Eight modern thinkers contribute papers to this volume. The subtitle
  “Essays in the pragmatic attitude,” indicates that the unity of the
  work is one of attitude rather than of conclusions. The first essay,
  by John Dewey, on The need for a recovery of philosophy, serves to
  introduce those that follow. It is a statement of the pragmatic
  purpose, to emancipate philosophy from its attachment to traditional
  problems. “What serious-minded men not engaged in the professional
  business of philosophy most want to know,” Professor Dewey says, “is
  what modifications and abandonments of intellectual inheritance are
  required by the newer industrial, political, and scientific
  movements.” The remaining essays are concerned with some of the
  specific applications of philosophy to present-day problems. They are:
  Reformation of logic, by Addison W. Moore; Intelligence and
  mathematics, by Harold Chapman Brown; Scientific method and individual
  thinker, by George H. Mead; Consciousness and psychology, by Boyd H.
  Bode; The phases of the economic interest, by Henry Waldgrave Stuart;
  The moral life and the construction of values and standards, by James
  Hayden Tufts; Value and existence in philosophy, art, and religion, by
  Horace M. Kallen.

  “Some of the essays have appeared in the various philosophical
  journals.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:423 Jl ‘17

  “To the general reader, perhaps the papers on ethics, by Professor
  Tufts, and economics, by Professor Stuart, will make the widest
  appeal, though all will enjoy the concluding paper by Dr Kallen.” R.
  C. Lodge

     + — =Bellman= 22:300 Mr 17 ‘17 470w

  “The book is specially noteworthy for its importance as a contribution
  to American philosophic thought.” F. F. Kelly

     + — =Bookm= 45:181 Ap ‘17 580w

       — =Cath World= 105:393 Je ‘17 480w

         =Cleveland= p75 Je ‘17 40w

  Reviewed by M. C. Otto

 *       =Dial= 62:348 Ap 19 ‘17 2450w

  Reviewed by R. B. Perry

 *       =Int J Ethics= 28:115 O ‘17 3400w

         =N Y Times= 22:141 Ap 15 ‘17 450w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:328 Ap ‘17

         =Pratt= p6 O ‘17 20w

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 F 3 ‘17 30w

  “There is not an abundance of good philosophy or good writing in this
  volume. The contributions of Profs. Dewey and Moore are not without
  interest as statements of method.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 200w

  “‘Creative intelligence,’ in spite of its attractive title, is not a
  treatise for beginners in humanistic philosophy. Yet there are some
  who like to begin, as it were, at the top of the pyramid and work
  down—who like the intellectual tussle of difficult beginnings. To
  these, and to anyone familiar with the concepts of humanism, ‘Creative
  intelligence’ is to be recommended. ... In spite of these appreciative
  remarks, one cannot help sighing for that exposition at once vivid as
  lightning and picturesque as romance, which William James was always
  able to provide for anything he had to say.” J: Collier

     + — =Survey= 39:326 D 15 ‘17 600w


=DE WINDT, HARRY.= Russia as I know it. il *$3 Lippincott 914.7 18-1412

  “The author was previously employed by the Russian government to
  investigate (for the benefit of English-speaking people) the Siberian
  exile system and reported not unfavorably on it. His findings caused
  controversy in the London press. His book deals mainly with European
  Russia, although there are separate and interesting chapters on
  Siberia, Darker Siberia, Frozen Asia, the Crimea, Finland, and last
  but not least, the Russian army. Mr De Windt also describes the
  characteristics and life of the Russian people.”—Springf’d Republican

  “If Mr De Windt had made the most of his opportunities what splendid
  material he had ready to his hand! Instead, we are given a superficial
  account of men and manners, well flavoured with anecdotes of social
  life and morals, and strongly redolent of the countless excellent
  restaurants and menus the author was lucky enough to meet with.”

     – + =Ath= p342 Jl ‘17 800w

       + =Ath= p364 Jl ‘17 50w

  “Interesting as it is, the material shows every evidence of having
  been collated with less thought of homogeneity than of producing a
  book that would sell.”

     – + =Dial= 63:526 N 22 ‘17 500w

       + =N Y Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 150w

  “In telling what he has learned of the Russian character by
  long-continued observation Mr De Windt helps his readers to a clearer
  understanding of the problems and perplexities which the new Russia is
  facing at this moment.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:552 N ‘17 80w

  “His book is no globe-trotter’s journal, but a considered view of the
  various facets of Russian life.”

       + =Sat R= 124:250 S 29 ‘17 320w

  “We could wish that there had been less about Russia as a playground
  and more about her political, artistic, and intellectual qualities,
  but only one who knows Russia as a man of the world could have written
  this book, and it can therefore be safely recommended as valuable of
  its kind.”

     + — =Spec= 119:12 Jl 7 ‘17 1500w

  “Although the author may be congratulated on having produced a
  readable work, one questions whether it has its permanent historical
  value.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 230w

  “He can tell as readable a story as anybody could wish to read.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p266 Je 7 ‘17 400w


=DIBBLEE, GEORGE BINNEY.= Germany’s economic position and England’s
commercial and industrial policy after the war. *1s Heinemann, London

  “This is one of the publications of the Central committee for national
  patriotic organizations. ... His analysis (to which the first four
  chapters are devoted) in headed paragraphs, of German industrial
  expansion, of the influence of the German government and character on
  industry, and the dangers of German aggression, is impartial and
  instructive. Mr Dibblee deals with our economic policy after the war
  in a cautious spirit. He foresees a tariff, but a strictly moderate
  one, and a moderate duty on corn. ... Among ‘internal measures of
  defence’ he urges the establishment of a foreign trade office and a
  system of licenses for employment, transfer of land, company
  promotion, export of raw material, &c.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “This very shrewd and able little book deserves attention.”

       + =Spec= 118:209 F 17 ‘17 380w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p638 D 28 ‘16 160w


=DICK, JOHN HARRISON=, ed. Garden guide; the amateur gardener’s
handbook. il 75c; pa 50c De La Mare 710 17-11482

  The publishers claim for this book a larger aim than that indicated by
  the title. They hope “through its medium to win thousands from crowded
  city homes to the free air of the open country.” Among the
  contributors are F. F. Rockwell, A. J. Loveless, and Charles
  Livingston Bull. The subjects taken up include: Planning the home
  grounds; Lawns and grass plots; Hedges and fences; Trees and shrubs;
  The rose garden; Among the hardy flowers; Annuals and biennials;
  Garden furniture; Fruit for the small garden; Vegetable garden;
  Pruning, etc. There are numerous illustrations, diagrams and tables.

  “Its twenty-four chapters deal in a way easily understood with the
  many perplexing problems which confront the beginner and often the
  professional as well. A calendar of operations contains much useful
  information, while the chapters on garden furniture and accessories
  will be eagerly absorbed by the reader who is mechanically inclined.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 140w


=DICKINSON, ASA DON, and DICKINSON, HELEN WINSLOW=, eds. Children’s book
of patriotic stories; the spirit of ‘76. il *$1.25 (3c) Doubleday
17-25380

  Among the stories selected for this volume are: Jabez Rockwell’s
  powderhorn, by Ralph D. Paine; Old Esther Dudley, by Nathaniel
  Hawthorne; The battle of Bunker’s Hill, by Washington Irving; The
  little fifer, by Helen M. Winslow; Paul Revere’s ride, by Henry
  Wadsworth Longfellow; A venture in 1777, by S. Weir Mitchell; The
  little minute-man, by H. G. Paine; Washington and the spy, by James
  Fenimore Cooper. For each story there is a brief introductory note and
  the table of contents indicates the stories suitable for older and for
  younger children.

  “Good reference material for any children’s library.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:172 F ‘18

  “A book confessedly more patriotic than historical, since the seeker
  of sober truth does not interpret the year ‘76 quite in the spirit of
  ‘76.” J: Walcott

       — =Bookm= 46:496 D ‘17 60w

  “These are good stories for the children of 1917 to read, both because
  they are good stories and because, later, the spirit of ‘76 and the
  spirit of ‘17 will have much in common.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 30w

  “The work of selection has been well done, and the book may be
  recommended for juvenile libraries, public or private.”

       + =Cath World= 106:551 Ja ‘18 100w


=DICKINSON, GOLDSWORTHY LOWES.= Choice before us. *$2 Dodd (*6s Allen &
Unwin, London) 172.4 17-29207

  “The author’s purpose is to describe briefly the prospect before the
  world if the armed international anarchy is to continue, and to be
  extended and exasperated, after the war. The origin of the war, and
  our participation in it, are not discussed; though the author is of
  opinion that we could do ‘no other.’ He seeks to analyse and discuss
  the presuppositions which underlie militarism, and arguing both that
  international war as it will be conducted in the future implies the
  ruin of civilisation, and that it is not ‘inevitable,’ he sketches the
  kind of reorganization that is both possible and essential if war is
  not to destroy mankind.” (Ath) “Mr Dickinson nurses the belief, not
  very strongly it seems to us, that wars may be prevented by a system
  of international leagues and international councils of
  conciliation. ... He is quite clear that internationalism can effect
  nothing unless all the great powers are members of the league. He says
  plainly that if Germany and Austria are to be left out of this league
  the thing is hopeless, and there is a vista of wars before us. He also
  argues with much force that if the Entente powers persist in waging an
  economic war against the Central European powers, then the economic
  must be followed by a military war.” (Sat R)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:111 Ja ‘18

         =Ath= p355 Jl ‘17 110w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:286 N ‘17 150w

       + =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 60w

  “With regard to militarism in England, Mr Lowes Dickinson lays undue
  stress on an entirely uninfluential and forgotten book by Captain Ross
  in his attempt to find evidences of militarism in countries other than
  Germany. The value of the book lies in its appeal to realities; its
  criticism of unreal standards and ideals.” M. J.

     + — =Int J Ethics= 28:287 Ja ‘18 330w

  “On the whole, Mr Dickinson presents a strong case against the
  militarists. A valuable service performed by the author is his
  collection of scattered statements made by prominent representatives
  of the allied nations into a formidable body of militaristic doctrine.
  It is a dangerous plant in whatever soil it may be rooted.”

       + =Nation= 106:19 Ja 3 ‘18 520w

  “All who respect clear thinking, large-hearted zeal, and generous
  common sense must respect his expression of his views.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 1200w

  “Every thinking man and woman should read Mr Dickinson’s book, which
  is a series of powerful arguments, written by a most accomplished
  disputant, in favour of a combined endeavour by the civilised world to
  put an end to war. There is, however, one indispensable condition to
  the success of Mr Dickinson’s ideas—international leagues must be in
  the hands of responsible statesmen, and not under the control of the
  secret societies or led by cosmopolitan anarchists.”

         =Sat R= 124:129 Ag 18 ‘17 1050w

  “We find these books exceedingly exasperating. ... Their theory of
  joint responsibility, with Germany as the worst sinner because the
  most completely militarized, ignores the whole history of Prussia as a
  predatory Power. ... Books like these should be read—for even in the
  worst of them there is much good sense—though their tone and the
  attitude of the writers towards the mass of their countrymen make the
  reading rather repulsive.”

         =Spec= 119:189 Ag 25 ‘17 1200w

  “The case against militarism—obvious militarism, and the militarism
  which stalks under the guise of imperialistic policy—has seldom been
  thought out with keener analysis and closer logic.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 25 ‘17 1150w

  “His purpose is so manifestly good, his temper is so reasonable, he is
  so desirous to see things as they are that even those who differ from
  some of his conclusions, and the many others who miss in his volume a
  sense of true proportion, will listen attentively to his argument and
  agree with much of it. There are many pages in this volume which
  express admirably the opinions of calm, clear-thinking men as to the
  outlook and our duties as a nation. ... But the reader who lays down
  the volume with the sense that he has learned much from it, and who
  agrees that ‘there are in all countries traditions, interests,
  prejudices, and illusions making for war,’ may very likely think that
  there is a want of perspective in the treatment of the subject, and
  that certain facts, fit to be noted in season, are pushed into undue
  prominence.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p303 Je 28 ‘17 1800w


=DICKINSON, THOMAS HERBERT.= Contemporary drama of England.
(Contemporary drama ser.) *$1.25 (2c) Little 822 17-7563

  Beginning with a chapter on The early Victorian theatre, the author
  covers the whole field from the beginning of the second quarter of the
  nineteenth century to the present. The chapters following the first
  are: The decline of the romantic tradition; Adaptation and experiment;
  Toward a new English theatre; Dramatists of transition; Henry Arthur
  Jones; Arthur Wing Pinero; The busy nineties; New organization; George
  Bernard Shaw; Dramatists of the free theatre; The challenge of the
  future. There is a bibliographical appendix. The author is professor
  of English in the University of Wisconsin and author of “The case of
  American drama.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:14 O ‘17

  “A book of quite extraordinary merit.” Clayton Hamilton

 *     + =Bookm= 45:538 Jl ‘17 470w

  “In a comprehensive bibliographical appendix is given an index of
  English plays of the past eighty years, arranged alphabetically by
  authors, and a list of books and magazine articles on the drama.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 F 17 ‘17 750w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:312 Ap ‘17

  “The eleventh chapter, on the ‘Free theater,’ and the twelfth, which
  estimates the dramatic labors of Galsworthy, Hankin, Barrie, Craig,
  and Barker, will assist both the average theater-patron and the
  dramatic student in discerning the trend of modern plays and give them
  a better idea of the aims of modern stage producers.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:662 Je ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:182 Je ‘17

  “Its historical information is interestingly presented, and it is much
  more meaty and detailed than many works of the kind. There are a few
  surprising mistakes. ... In interpretation and criticism Mr Dickinson,
  while sometimes shrewd and apt, is less satisfactory. He is frequently
  too abstract, and finespun in his characterizations. ... This is Mr
  Dickinson at his vaguest, and it would be unfair to judge the book by
  such instances of strained and pointless criticism. Yet one fears that
  these sentences are typical of the instruction which Drama league
  audiences and literary clubs are getting in this country.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 26 ‘17 400w


=DICKINSON, THOMAS HERBERT.= Insurgent theatre. *$1.25 (2½c) Huebsch 792
17-30696

  A concise, comprehensive discussion of the artistic and practical
  sides of the non-commercial theatre. At the outset the point of
  agreement taken for granted is the conviction on the part of workers
  that the things of the old theatre must be destroyed and a new theatre
  be built up in its stead. Without censure against the older order, the
  writer confines himself to the struggle for the new theatre,—the
  purposes of those who have started out in revolt; its problems of
  financial support including experiments in subsidy; the responsibility
  of audiences to support a theatre intelligently; early experiments
  showing that the machinery was not ready to carry out the new
  enterprises; the little theatre; laws that affect management of
  theatres, for instance, laws against Sunday performances and
  child-labor; dramatic laboratories; the children’s theatre; some of
  the pioneers of the insurgent theatre, and a closing chapter on the
  “Art and outlook of the insurgent theatre.”

  Reviewed by Algernon Tassin

         =Bookm= 46:347 N ‘17 250w

  “It is interesting to compare the attitudes of Professor Dickinson and
  Cheney. The two volumes make an admirable combination for the
  theaterlover. ... The question of subsidy, direct and through
  subscription audiences, is ably handled by Professor Dickinson, as is
  the relationship of the college to dramatics in the matter of
  experimentation.” L: Gardy

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ja 12 ‘18 250w

  “The book is, perhaps, the most comprehensive exposition that has yet
  been made of what is generally known as the ‘modern movement.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:578 D 30 ‘17 160w

       + =R of Rs= 57:108 Ja ‘18 110w

  “Mr Dickinson is so familiar not only with the subject of the
  community theater, but also with the ordinary commercial enterprise
  and the lore and philosophy of the drama, that he has a background for
  understanding what he is talking about. No wild beliefs in the
  efficacy of new amateur theaters to build up a new social stratum in
  America tinge his views.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 6 ‘17 950w

  “But this is more than a chronicle of the pioneers and their ventures;
  it is a clear, balanced and broadminded critique, helpful alike to the
  play-lover, the actor, the playwright and the producer. The
  responsibility of the audience is well-defined, the artistic devotion
  of those who are working out little theaters in town and country is
  keenly appreciated, and an encouraging outlook for the future is
  entertained.” M. H. B. Mussey

       + =Survey= 39:447 Ja 19 ‘18 310w


=DICKSON, HARRIS.= Unpopular history of the United States by Uncle Sam
himself; as recorded in Uncle Sam’s own words. il *75c (3c) Stokes 355
17-25097

  The manuscript of Upton’s “Military policy of the United States,”
  based on Civil war experience, lay filed and forgotten amongst
  millions of documents in the archives of the War department for
  twenty-five years. Then it saw the light. It was published by Mr
  Dickson. He says, “Every word that I have spoken here you will find in
  there; it has my official endorsement, printed on my presses, franked
  thru my mails, and sent free to my people. It’s true gospel, but folks
  say it doesn’t taste good.” Uncle Sam does the talking and he spares
  no forcible language to take the brag and bluster out of Americans who
  complaisantly think our war system is equal to the emergency of today.
  It is an arraignment of the volunteer service idea underlying military
  policy and a plea for universal, compulsory military service for both
  war and peace.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:75 D ‘17

         =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 30w

  “It is poorly written; the writer, making Uncle Sam the speaker, rips
  out regular gosh-ding stuff. But the facts are interesting. For one
  who thrills at military victories, and is ashamed of military defeats,
  this book is a bit of a tonic. But for one whose interest is in the
  welfare of the people of the nation, rather than their Prussian
  prowess, this work is but an interesting sidelight into national
  psychology.” W: M. Feigenbaum

     + — =N Y Call= p14 O 14 ‘17 500w

  “The general effect of having these facts known to the people should
  be wholesome and in every way stimulating to patriotism and
  efficiency.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:104 Ja ‘18 70w


=DIDEROT, DENIS.= Early philosophical works; tr. and ed. by Margaret
Jourdain. (Open court ser. of classics of science and philosophy) il
*$1.25 (2½c) Open ct. 194

  This little volume includes the “Philosophic thoughts,” the “Letter on
  the blind,” together with its “Addition,” and the “Letter on the deaf
  and dumb,” published with notes and an appendix. In the “Philosophic
  thoughts” Diderot “still figures as a deist.” The “Letter on the
  blind” treats both of the theory of vision and of the argument from
  design, while the “Letter on the deaf and dumb” deals largely with
  esthetics. The introduction of twenty-five pages is by the translator
  and editor.

  “Diderot’s range is extraordinary, as within this small volume he
  breaks ground in ethics and aesthetics, in the criticism of religion
  and of art. ... The ‘Letter on the deaf and dumb’ is full of
  interesting speculations upon aesthetics, which Lessing afterwards
  turned to account, and the ‘Philosophic thoughts,’ burnt by the
  Parliament of Paris in 1746, has still its interest as a breviary of
  philosophic scepticism.”

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:538 Jl ‘17 220w

  “The main philosophical point treated in the volume is the relation
  between mental development and sensuous endowment, a point on which
  some diversity of opinion is still maintained. His conclusion is that
  ‘the state of our organs and our senses has a great influence upon our
  metaphysics and our morality.’ ... To most modern psychologists
  Diderot’s principle will seem so manifestly true as scarcely to admit
  of discussion. Nevertheless, the principle has been called into
  question recently by the new realists, who argue that the human mind
  is in immediate contact with objective truth. For the confutation of
  such views Diderot’s acute observations upon a blind man and a
  deaf-mute of his acquaintance are not without value at the present
  time.”

         =Nature= 99:343 Je 28 ‘17 230w

  “This collection of Diderot’s ‘Early works’ is worthy to be studied in
  connection with Morley’s book on ‘Diderot and the Encyclopedists,’ but
  it will be found interesting for its religious and esthetic
  speculations by all readers of intellectual tastes.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 23 ‘17 170w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p136 Mr 22 ‘17 1250w


=DILNOT, FRANK.= Lloyd George: the man and his story. il *$1 (2c) Harper
17-10671

  The author has written of the career of the man who now rules England
  “with an absoluteness granted to no man, king or statesman, since the
  British became a nation,” as he himself has watched it. Among the
  chapters are: The village cobbler who helped the British empire; How
  Lloyd George became famous at twenty-five; Fighting the lone hand; The
  daredevil statesman; The first great task; How Lloyd George broke the
  House of lords; At home and in Downing Street; A champion of war; The
  alliance with Northcliffe; At high pressure; His inconsistencies; How
  he became prime minister; The future of Lloyd George. Lloyd George’s
  Lincoln day message is reprinted in an appendix.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:23 O ‘17

  “The book will well repay perusal.”

       + =Ath= p473 S ‘17 50w

  “Mr Dilnot has given us, not a critical estimate of the great English
  leader, for that is, at a time when men feel rather than think,
  impossible, but a clear, journalistic, if you will, and sympathetic
  account of the man as he appears to a newspaper writer who has had an
  unusual opportunity for following his career and a capacity for its
  interpretation. He is frankly an enthusiastic believer in the man and
  his policies.” J. T. Gerould

         =Bellman= 22:438 Ap 21 ‘17 700w

  “Our thanks are due to Mr Dilnot for the most plausible picture yet
  given us of the most extraordinary man of the epoch.” G. I. Colbron

       + =Bookm= 45:415 Je ‘17 1900w

  “Mr Dilnot has had first-hand acquaintance with British politics and
  political leaders for two or three decades, and he has written a
  substantial book on the dramatic contest over the Lloyd George budget
  of 1909. The present biography is a simple chronicle, highly
  laudatory, yet hardly more than the subject seems to demand.”

       + =Dial= 62:529 Je 14 ‘17 300w

  “The Prime minister of the British empire has had a career so meteoric
  and possesses a personality so unusual that biographers are likely to
  swarm about his story for many a day. Mr Dilnot’s, which is one of the
  best thus far, is brief, less than 200 pages, but graphic, and aims
  less to give a conventional account of his life than to present a
  picture of him that will make understandable his character and
  career.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:140 Ap 15 ‘17 1100w

  “Lloyd George will be chiefly known, we believe, as the friend of the
  poor, and this is the thread which runs through the volume, especially
  accentuated as to labor influence.”

       + =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 220w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:526 Je ‘17 50w

       + =R of Rs= 55:666 Je ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:186 Je ‘17

  “He writes as a candid friend, and devotes a whole chapter to Mr Lloyd
  George’s ‘inconsistencies,’ but for all that he contrives to suggest
  that the history of England for the last ten years has centred in his
  hero. The future historian will, we think, take a different view.”

     – + =Spec= 119:192 Ag 25 ‘17 120w

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 550w


=DITCHFIELD, PETER HAMPSON.= England of Shakespeare. il *$2 Dutton (*6s
Methuen & co., London) 822.3 (Eng ed 17-17653)

  “Mr Ditchfield has provided here a series of pen-sketches depicting in
  a popular and readable way the England that was Shakespeare’s, its
  religion, the court, the capital, the poet’s home, travelling, the
  great country-houses, the navy and army, agriculture and trade, dress,
  literature, and the drama, the people’s games and sports, the
  prevalent roguery, vagabondage, and punishments, and the current
  superstitions, such as beliefs in necromancy, astrology, and
  witchcraft. The book includes twelve illustrations.”—Ath

         =Ath= p201 Ap ‘17 80w

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 7 ‘17 550w

  “Every student of Shakespeare, and, indeed, every student of
  Elizabethan literature, should read this book. It contains much rare
  and curious information helpful for the interpretation of the
  literature of the time. We hope that the author, in a second edition,
  will expurge the offensive expression ‘papists’ which constantly
  disfigures the pages of his book, and substitute the true appellation
  ‘Catholic’ instead.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:396 D ‘17 410w

  “The kindly country clergyman shows his real quality when he describes
  what he calls the country of ‘leafy Warwickshire,’ as typical of the
  rest of rural England in Shakespeare’s time. ‘The England of
  Shakespeare’ is a book that no lover of Shakespeare can afford not to
  read.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:318 Ag 26 ‘17 550w

  “Making all due allowances for the exigencies of war time, we must
  still consider Mr Ditchfield curiously careless in small details. Any
  Latin scholar could make obvious emendations in the lines on p. 200,
  and there are several misquotations of passages and names that should
  be familiar as household words. His selections from representative
  views of the period are the strong point of his book.”

     + — =Sat R= 123:257 Mr 17 ‘17 1250w

  “All the main facts are well known already. But Mr Ditchfield retells
  them with such enthusiasm and in a setting of such pleasant anecdote
  and quotation that they must make an appeal of freshness even to the
  mind saturated in seventeenth-century history.”

       + =Spec= 118:415 Ap 7 ‘17 1900w

  “Especially graphic are the pen pictures which the author gives of the
  famous queen herself.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 250w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p83 F 15 ‘17 100w


=DIVER, MRS KATHERINE HELEN MAUD (MARSHALL).= Unconquered; a romance. il
*$1.50 (1½c) Putnam 17-23756

  Mrs Diver has written in “Unconquered” a war novel of conventional
  type. It tells the story of Sir Mark Forsyth’s infatuation for Bel
  Alison, a selfish young beauty, his return from the war with an
  injured spine, the exit of the beauty from the scene and the entrance
  of Sheila Melrose, the sweet young girl who has always loved Sir Mark
  and who is his mother’s choice for him.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:130 Ja ‘18

  “As a love-story the book, despite its wordiness, should prove of
  interest to those who like their war literature flavoured with
  romance. As an indictment of democratic government it has too much the
  air of being wise after the event.”

     – + =Ath= p596 N ‘17 90w

  “Mrs Diver has done this part of her story especially well, for it
  requires skill to make so vivid and yet so restrained a drawing of
  those early war days.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 16 ‘18 1450w

         =Nation= 106:95 Ja 24 ‘18 170w

  “The novel is too long, and the latter part of its drags more than a
  little, but it is written with sincerity.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:468 N 11 ‘17 500w

  “In spite of the thin motif, the book has merits. ... Moreover, in an
  age overgiven to revolt against anything which makes for a standard or
  for discipline, it is refreshing to find an advocate of ‘the brave old
  wisdom of acceptance’ as a philosophy of life.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:311 O 20 ‘17 280w

  “As we read the book we live through once again those summer and
  autumn months of 1914. It is a true picture of the early phases of
  public opinion in regard to the war, as well as a good love-story.”

       + =Spec= 119:451 O 27 ‘17 750w

  “The only touch of individuality anywhere is Bel’s pacifism. The other
  characters are just puppets trained to make a continual call upon the
  admiration of the reader. What is still more unfortunate is that Mrs
  Diver has bespattered her pages with serious discussion in the manner
  of the most commonplace leading articles of three years ago. ... We
  are treated by these solemn talkers to all the old truths which have
  now become truisms, and the old clichés which have become banalities.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p494 O 11 ‘17 250w


=DIXON, ROYAL.= Human side of birds. il *$1.60 (3½c) Stokes 598.2
17-29555

  An original study of birds which characterizes them according to their
  activities. Some are artists, cliff-dwellers and mound-builders,
  policemen, dancers, athletes and musicians; while others are
  scavengers and street cleaners, aviators, fishermen, mimics,
  ventriloquists and actors. The bird court of justice and the bird
  beauty parlor also come in for a share of novel treatment. Mr Dixon
  says, “It should be remembered that birds have a life, a point of
  view, and a destiny of their own, and that our failure to comprehend
  them in no way justifies us in concluding that they are in every sense
  below us in the scale of existence. ... There are birds of as many
  shades of character and disposition as there are types of people.
  There are the gay, the sad; the sociable, the reserved; the trustful,
  the shy; the frank, the deceitful; the honest, the dishonest; the
  gentle, the violent; the peaceful, the quarrelsome; and so on.
  However, it should be emphasized that the prevailing note of birddom
  is one of happiness and good cheer.”

  “Mr Dixon has a fertile imagination, but he also has a wide knowledge
  of nature and he is very enthusiastic.” N. H. D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p3 D 15 ‘17 950w

  “It contains much curious information, scientific and historic, and
  some that is neither, in a strict sense, but is none the less
  readable.”

       + =Dial= 63:537 N 22 ‘17 180w

  “Colored plates and many photographs add to the attractiveness of the
  pleasantly chatty and at times quaintly imaginative papers.”

       + =Ind= 91:189 Ag 4 ‘17 30w

  “It is a very interesting book and one which ought to open the eyes
  and sharpen the perceptions of most people to whom a tree is just a
  tree. The last chapter, on ‘Trees and civilization,’ is full of facts,
  eloquently presented, to show how great is the necessity that the
  human world and the tree world should co-operate for the good of
  civilization.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:289 Ag 5 ‘17 450w

  “The book has a unique interest. The pictures are excellent.”

       + =Outlook= 117:577 D 5 ‘17 50w

       + =Pratt= p19 O ‘17 20w


=DIXON, ROYAL, and FITCH, FRANKLYN EVERETT.= Human side of trees;
wonders of the tree world. il *$1.60 (4c) Stokes 582 17-10453

  “Man is the highest form of animal life and the trees are the highest
  form of vegetable life. They have much in common,” say the authors of
  this book. It is a companion volume to “The human side of plants” and
  its purpose is “to present the trees as living, lovable
  personalities—working and playing in a world quite as real and vital
  as our own; and possessing many habits and attributes which we often
  imagine are exclusively human.” Among the chapters are: Trees that
  build cities; Trees with a personality; Tree physiology; Trees that
  are fashionable; Trees with a college education; Trees and their
  business methods. There are over thirty illustrations, some of them in
  color.

  “The illustrations are good and facts are authentic, but scientists
  may take exception to the method of presentation.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:381 Je ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 3 ‘17 380w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 5:76 My ‘17

       + =Outlook= 115:761 Ap 25 ‘17 30w

       + =R of Rs= 55:665 Je ‘17 230w

  “The book is, of course, rather entertaining than scientific, but the
  devices which it employs are legitimate apart from their object in
  interesting the student in a further pursuit of the science of
  dendrology.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 4 ‘17 130w


=DIXON, WILLIAM MACNEILE.= British navy at war. il *75c (3c) Houghton
940.91 18-1524

  The professor of English language and literature in the University of
  Glasgow has given a graphic account of the work of the British navy
  during the war. He considers The war at sea—New problems—German
  tactics; tells of The ocean battles—Coronel and the Falkland Isles; of
  the North sea battles—the Dogger Bank and Jutland; of the work of the
  Submarines; of Blockade and bombardment; pays a tribute to the Grand
  fleet and ends with a summary of What the British navy has done for
  the world. The author acknowledges his indebtedness to the
  correspondence columns of the Times and to the Cornhill and other
  magazines for a number of descriptive quotations.

  “Before the United States entered the great war we heard now and then
  that question of unpardonable ignorance: ‘What is the British fleet
  doing?’ ... The author has with remarkable brevity and brilliancy told
  the real story of the British navy in the recent war. It thrills the
  reader, and it is as authentic as it is inspiring.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 15 ‘17 700w

  “Every word of it makes interesting reading; and not a small part of
  the pleasure the book imparts, is due to the author’s clear and
  flowing style.”

       + =Cath World= 106:265 N ‘17 250w

       + =Ind= 92:301 N 10 ‘17 70w

  “As a chronology of events it is of considerable value.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 S 9 ‘17 170w

         =N Y Call= p14 S 16 ‘17 300w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:681 O ‘17 20w

         =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 40w

  “This is a handy little book for the general reader who finds it hard
  to keep in mind a connected account of British naval operations simply
  from reading the papers. But if one is looking for a critical analysis
  of these operations, one must turn elsewhere. As history it is simply
  a hymn of praise.” W: O. Stevens

     – + =Yale R= n s 7:418 Ja ‘18 950w


=DOBBS, ELLA VICTORIA.= Illustrative handwork for elementary school
subjects. il *$1.10 Macmillan 371.3 17-13974

  This desk manual discusses “the use of sand tables, pictures, and
  construction work in developing a clear understanding of history,
  geography and literature.” (Ind) “There are about twenty selected
  projects in detail besides lists of projects carried out by fifth,
  sixth and seventh grades.” (School Arts Magazine)

       + =Ind= 91:294 Ag 25 ‘17 70w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:103 Jl ‘17

  “Every classroom teacher should have this manual on her desk.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 17:44 S ‘17 120w


=DODGE, HENRY IRVING.= Skinner’s baby. *$1.25 (3c) Houghton 17-25433

  The Skinners had distinctly “arrived” since the first dress-suit was
  bought but husband and wife are still dividing “fifty-fifty.” How
  would it be over the baby? Would he be Skinner’s or Honey’s? He was to
  be a “regular boy.” So much was agreed. And a “regular boy” must have
  “a clean mind, a stout heart, and a strong body.” Could they make him
  one by working together or must each do a separate part? It took some
  adjusting but in the end it was “fifty-fifty” still. For his mother
  taught him to pray while his father showed him the way to the old
  swimming-pool and to the use of the boxing-gloves. And together
  husband and wife solved the puzzles that will fall to the share of, if
  not every reader, at least to every reader’s neighbor.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:131 Ja ‘18

  “The little tale is amusing, and the account of Skinner’s dreams
  before the baby came at once funny and pathetic. Baby Skinner himself
  is no supernaturally virtuous cherub, but a sturdy youngster,
  energetic, inquisitive, and possessed of that appalling logic which
  some children wield, to the utter dismay of those who endeavor to cope
  with them.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:500 N 25 ‘17 210w


=DODGE, LOUIS.= Children of the desert. *$1.35 (2½c) Scribner 17-7927

  This is the story of Harboro and Sylvia. Harboro was forty when he met
  Sylvia. He had led the adventurous life of a railroad man in the
  Southwest and in Mexico. He was solid and substantial, a very rock of
  firmness and integrity. Sylvia was—there is no other word for her—a
  light woman. Harboro married her, knowing nothing of her past, and the
  men who did know and the woman who suspected kept silent out of
  respect for Harboro. Out of such a situation tragedy must inevitably
  come. The amazing thing about the story is the appealing sweetness of
  Sylvia. As the author draws her character, it is impossible wholly to
  condemn her. The action is played out in two towns that face one
  another across the Rio Grande.

  “Mr Dodge makes both the woman and the man wholly plausible, and it is
  obvious that he seeks to present them as the victims of an inexorable
  fate.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 21 ‘17 350w

  “A work of intense concentration and elimination. ... The author has
  shown in this latest novel an underlying strength and determination
  that ought to carry him a long way, and that should also lead him to
  overcome the looseness of writing that is such a blot upon his careful
  structure.”

     + — =Dial= 62:402 My 3 ‘17 330w

  “The author of ‘Bonnie May’ has written another book. And a greater
  difference can scarcely be imagined than that which exists between
  Louis Dodge’s first published novel and this second book which has
  just appeared. ‘Children of the desert’ is a study of character and of
  a problem which has been studied before and which will probably be
  studied for many a long year to come; it is set in the crudity and the
  wildness of Mexican border life; it is profoundly simple; and it is
  sheer tragedy.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:83 Mr 11 ‘17 700w

  “While it is remarkably restrained in tone, free from gunfire and all
  traces of flashiness, some of its vital features belong to melodrama,
  and its dénouement, tho tragic in Hardy’s second best manner, is
  brought about by a potently melodramatic device. On the one hand the
  book inspires serious comparisons; and on the other it makes one
  wonder whether it is justified beyond the furnishing of an evening’s
  excitement.” Joseph Mosher

         =Pub W= 91:972 Mr 17 ‘17 500w

  “Louis Dodge’s purpose in portraying the type of woman whose behavior
  is the central thread of ‘Children of the desert’ is not clear. Her
  portrayal proves nothing more valuable than it is possible for a human
  being to be without moral sense. Mr Dodge handles his theme with
  considerable skill, but his instinct to drown the novelist in the
  essayist will not down.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 220w


Domestic service, by an old servant; with a preface by Mrs George
Wemyss. il *$1 (4½c) Houghton 647 17-24417

  “This is not a manual of domestic service, but recollections,
  reflections, and advice to young servants by an old servant who has
  been in nineteen situations—nine in Scotland, and ten in
  England—covering a period of fifty-two years.” (Ath) “It gives a
  realistic picture of life as it is lived and thought about by the
  typical well-behaved, well-treated servant of the old school, rather
  prosily contented in the lot whereto God has called her, happy to be
  remembered in the blessings of a considerate master or mistress.”
  (Springf’d Republican)

  “The ‘old servant’s’ account, which is carefully edited, is a pleasing
  record of good feeling on the side both of employers and employed.”

         =Ath= p411 Ag ‘17 60w

  “It is a delight to read this simple, moving record. There is emphasis
  in each chapter on the enduring value of loyalty in every walk of
  life.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:555 N ‘17 40w

  “With all proper respect for the virtue of contentment there is
  genuine pathos in the sheeplike quality of the nameless author’s
  devotion to duty. The editor of the book has shown doubtful wisdom or
  kindness in leaving the author’s English at its original loose ends.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 160w


=DOMINIAN, LEON.= Frontiers of language and nationality in Europe. il
*$3 Holt 940 17-15963

  “This book is submitted as a study in applied geography. Its
  preparation grew out of a desire to trace the connection existing
  between linguistic areas in Europe and the subdivision of the
  continent into nations. The endeavor has been made to show that
  language exerts a strong formative influence on nationality because
  words express thoughts and ideals. But underlying the currents of
  national feeling, or of speech, is found the persistent action of the
  land, or geography. ... Upon these foundations, linguistic frontiers
  deserve recognition as the symbol of the divide between distinct sets
  of economic and social conditions.” (Preface) The author is a graduate
  of Robert college, Constantinople, and he has given particular
  attention to the Turkish situation because of its importance in the
  whole European entanglement. The book is an outgrowth of a series of
  articles written for the Bulletin of the American Geographical
  Society. The several colored maps of the book have been prepared under
  the direction of the American geographical society, and Dr Madison
  Grant, its president, has written the introduction.

  “Seems qualified to become a standard source of information on the
  topics in the field it covers.” C. D.

       + =Am Econ R= 7:841 D ‘17 60w

  “A full linguistic atlas of Europe is a desideratum, and the author
  has come so near to supplying it that one regrets he did not go
  further and include many more of the available but scattered
  linguistic maps of different sections. In matters touching the
  character, history, and relationship of languages, there are not a few
  remarks which savor of uncritical popular philology, some merely naïve
  in expression, some positively erroneous. But these do not seriously
  affect the main purpose and value of the book.” C. D. Buck

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:171 O ‘17 900w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:19 O ‘17

  “When the author leaves the task of analysis to outline the
  application of what racial and linguistic conditions he considers the
  proper bases for boundary-making and their application to present-day
  political problems, his discussion becomes less convincing.” C. L.
  Jones

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 73:238 S ‘17 450w

  Reviewed by Albert Schinz

       + =Bookm= 46:293 N ‘17 550w

  “Excellent maps, showing in colors the distribution of peoples, and
  also showing-languages having political significance, greatly aid in
  presenting the results of the author’s study. ... In size, type,
  illustrations and mechanical work the book is excellent.” H. S. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 6 ‘17 450w

       + =Cleveland= p115 S ‘17 30w

  “The author is decidedly at his best in treating of the racial
  situation in Turkey.”

       + =Ind= 91:265 Ag 18 ‘17 120w

  “The material here gathered is of great value to the student of
  history, diplomacy, and language, and this service does not depend
  upon the author’s theories and solutions.”

       + =Lit D= 55:43 O 13 ‘17 370w

  “Mr Dominian is well-fitted to perform his task because of his
  familiarity with European languages, geography, and politics; and his
  work is a valuable contribution to that large mass of data, literary
  and otherwise, which undoubtedly will play an important part in the
  readjustment of national boundaries in Europe at the termination of
  the war.”

       + =Nation= 105:637 D 6 ‘17 850w

  “Supplies a pressing need. In any circumstances the appearance of this
  book would have been an event of importance to scholars since it is by
  far the most competent work on the subject available in English. Just
  now its practical value is so great that it ought not to become a
  scholar’s monopoly.” A. J.

       + =New Repub= 11:337 Jl 21 ‘17 1050w

  “The author deserves a special word of commendation for the impartial
  attitude of mind with which he has faced his facts and endeavored to
  give to each one its full significance.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:256 Jl 8 ‘17 430w

       + =Outlook= 116:451 Jl 18 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:760 N ‘17 50w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 700w

  “Anyone who thinks it will be quite easy to adjust boundaries after
  this war so as to insure stable equilibrium through any simple formula
  like ‘respect for the rights of small nationalities’ should read this
  careful and scholarly study.” K. H. Claghorn

       + =Survey= 38:553 S 22 ‘17 500w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p599 D 6 ‘17 130w

  “The book is full of learning interestingly expressed, cleverly
  arranged, and adequately illustrated with typical photographs and
  careful maps, in one of which he is at pains to leave uncoloured the
  uninhabited areas, a lesson in accuracy to be learned by many
  ethnographical cartographers. East of the Aegean, however, Mr
  Dominian’s work is more open to criticism than when he deals with
  Europe.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p611 D 13 ‘17 2000w


=DONHAM, S. AGNES.= Marketing and housework manual. il *$1.50 Little 640
17-31012

  Here is offered the benefit of twenty years of study and experiment in
  scientific household management. The instruction covers the following
  phases of home activity: General rules for marketing; Marketing
  charts; Menu making; Menu and order sheets; How to select foods—what
  the body needs; Food inventory; The cellar and laundry; The kitchen
  and kitchen pantry; The dining room, pantry and dish washing; The
  dining room and table service; The living room; The chambers and bed
  making; The bathroom and storage closets; General cleaning—sweeping,
  dusting; To open and close a house; House inspections; Small repairs,
  plumbing troubles; The reading of gas and electric meters; Program of
  work; Household pests.


=DORLAND, WILLIAM ALEXANDER NEWMAN.=[2] Sum of feminine achievement.
*$1.50 Stratford co. 396 17-24822

  A critical and analytical study of woman’s contribution to the
  intellectual progress of the world. This is “the century of the
  women,” the writer avers, “The course of development of the education
  of women has been by cycles, and at the present time there appears to
  have been reached an unusual wave, sweeping on the movement with
  unusual force and energy.” The chapter headings suggest the scope of
  the volume: Genius and femininity; A galaxy of talent; The mentality
  of famous men and women compared; The achievements of women in youth
  and old age; The sum of feminine achievement; Woman’s contribution to
  science; The feminine side of art; Woman in literature; The
  intellectual correlation of the sexes. An alphabetical table is
  appended of the famous women of modern times.

         =Pittsburgh= 22:765 N ‘17 80w


=DORR, MRS RHETA (CHILDE).=[2] Inside the Russian revolution. il *$1.50
(2c) Macmillan 947 17-31172

  A clearly written, popular, first hand account of the dramatic
  happenings in Russia, during the past few months of revolution and
  upheaval. Liberal, democratic inclinations furnish the writer
  standards of measurement and criticism. She points out the underlying
  aims of the Bolsheviki or Maximalists and comments upon their
  unfitness for leadership. Among the events which she reviews are the
  July revolution, the striking activities of Mareea Botchkareva, the
  modern Joan d’Arc who commanded the Battalion of death, the treachery
  of Rasputin and his tragic death, the part that Anna Virubova played
  in the revolutionary drama, the passing of the Romanoffs and the
  leadership of Kerensky. The closing chapters consider Russia’s
  greatest needs—leadership, education, wholesome popular amusements,
  soda fountains—and venture a conjecture or two concerning what could
  happen in Russia next. At the moment when the Bolsheviki are
  attracting favorable notice many of Mrs Dorr’s statements and
  prophecies seem obsolete.

  “Does not reflect the changed conditions.”

     – + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 26 ‘17 240w

  “An important book of the Russian situation and events leading to it.”

       + =Ind= 93:151 Ja 26 ‘18 30w

  “It furnishes most excellent reading for the host of half-baked
  reformers who imagine that the world can be created anew overnight,
  and deserves a wide circulation both among these and among readers who
  take a saner point of view.”

       + =Outlook= 118:68 Ja 9 ‘18 100w

         =R of Rs= 57:214 F ‘18 100w

  “Vivid and most instructive narrative. Mrs Dorr’s book is an excellent
  piece of reporting.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 4 ‘18 730w


=DORSEY, GEORGE AMOS.= Young Low. *$1.50 (1c) Doran 17-18356

  It is for the most part the life of an average young American under
  average conditions that the author describes. Young Low spends his
  boyhood and youth in a small town in Ohio. His home is the
  commonplace, middle-class home, his parents are not without
  understanding of boy nature, and his childhood is on the whole happy.
  Yet in two matters, religion and sex, the handicap of his early
  training remains with him for many years, if not for life. Much of the
  latter half of the story has to do with the agencies that were helpful
  in overcoming the effects of his narrow training in religion and his
  utter lack of training in regard to sex. The person who helped clarify
  his ideas on this question was Alexandra Lanflere. This woman, who
  stood in a relation to him that his early standards would have
  condemned, is represented as the best and finest influence that had
  come into his life.

  “The publishers announce that ‘you have never read a book like this.
  You have never read so frank a revelation of a young man’s life—a
  boyhood and youth intensely American, both in ancestry and
  surroundings.’ This exaggerates matters a little, since we may recall
  a number of stories of recent years which approach this one in realism
  of setting and ‘frankness,’ not to say grossness, of detail. Part 1 of
  this book gives an uncommonly vivid picture of certain aspects of
  childhood and boyhood in a small Ohio community. We have already had
  such a picture, frank without grossness, in Mr Howells’s ‘A boy’s
  town,’ and the two pictures might well be compared as illustrating the
  difference between protestant and catholic methods of literary art.”
  H. W. Boynton

       — =Bookm= 45:646 Ag ‘17 450w

  “There is nothing more remarkable in the story than the way in which
  the author gets under the mental attitude of Young Low and makes us
  see its naturalness and its inevitability.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 22 ‘17 850w

  “It is unfortunate that the really excellent presentation of matter
  should be marred by a vast amount of modern Freudian dogma, which has
  not yet worked down to reasonable proportions.”

     + — =Dial= 63:163 Ag 30 ‘17 200w

  “Here, for a recent American example, is the ‘Young Low’ of a ‘new’
  writer who essays to be extremely American in the continental
  manner—or, it is more just to say, in the continental mood. It
  refreshingly lacks the Russo-Gallic accent which our bold young
  ‘realists’ so frequently affect. It has an excellent autobiographical
  style, free from bookishness on the one hand and from the
  conventionalized vernacular of the magazines on the other.”

     – + =Nation= 105:177 Ag 16 ‘17 600w

  “The story has the faults that are inherent in its method. ...
  Nevertheless, it is an interesting tale, written with vigor and
  sincerity and a wide and varied knowledge of American life. ... The
  author’s sense of character is stronger than his ability in its
  portrayal. ... He writes with plainness of language upon the sexual
  impulses, inhibitions, experiences, and knowledge of the boy, the
  adolescent, and the young man, but there is in all his pages no taint
  of the lascivious. ... Artistically the finest feature of the book is
  the sense of the urge of dynamic forces in American life, in both
  society in general and in the individual.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:230 Je 17 ‘17 750w


=DOSTOEVSKII, FEDOR MIKHAILOVICH.= Eternal husband, and other stories.
(Novels of Fyodor Dostoevsky, v. 8) *$1.50 (1c) Macmillan 17-17080

  Three stories newly translated from the Russian by Constance Garnett
  are included in this volume: The eternal husband; The double; A gentle
  spirit. In the first story a woman is characterized as “one of those
  women who are born to be unfaithful wives.” The woman herself is dead
  at the opening of the story, which thereafter has to do chiefly with a
  man who had once been her lover and his relations with her husband.
  The husband is he who is characterized in the title, a man who all his
  life is a husband and nothing more. He is the complementary type to
  the woman referred to.

  “Confused, occasionally incoherent in style.”

       — =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 30w

  “All of Dostoevsky’s qualities are in this latest volume, ‘The eternal
  husband.’ But so concentrated are they that the Dostoevsky novice
  would better begin with that poignant, but less extravagant, story,
  ‘The insulted and injured,’ or that epic of frustrated aspiration,
  ‘The brothers Karamazov.’ ... Such stories as in ‘The eternal
  husband’, however fantastic the problems of the soul, get deeply into
  us. We cannot ignore them, we cannot take them irresponsibly. We
  cannot read them for amusement, or even in detachment, as we can our
  classics. We forget our categories, our standards, our notions of
  human nature. All we feel is that we are tracing the current of life
  itself. ... If we are strong enough to hear him, this is the decisive
  force we need on our American creative outlook.” Randolph Bourne

       + =Dial= 63:24 Je 28 ‘17 1500w

  “‘The eternal husband’ and ‘The double’ are over long, and loosely
  constructed. They are both excellent studies of the abnormal, as is
  usual Dostoevsky; but they possess one quality which is not at all
  usual with him, or indeed with any other Russian novelist—the quality
  of humor. An ironic and rather sneering humor, to be sure, but still
  undoubtedly humor.”

     + — =Ind= 93:150 Ja 26 ‘18 150w

       + =R of Rs= 56:102 Jl ‘17 150w

  “The three long short-stories that make up this volume hardly rank
  with the best of Dostoevsky’s work—although they belong to the
  greatest period of his genius—but they are interesting as illustrating
  his methods. ... ‘The eternal husband’ is a powerful psychological
  study of a man of unpleasant type. ... The second story in the volume.
  ‘The double,’ is the least successful, but the last, ‘The gentle
  spirit,’ which deals with a man’s sensations after his wife’s death,
  is unforgettable.”

       + =Sat R= 123:343 Ap 14 ‘17 600w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p91 F 22 ‘17 1750w

  “‘The double,’ was published the same year as ‘Poor folk,’ but not
  even Mrs Garnett and Dostoievski together can make it worth reading.
  ‘The eternal husband’ is a later work, and the exceedingly powerful
  close atones for much indifferent matter in the course of the story.”
  W: L. Phelps

     – + =Yale R= n s 7:188 O ‘17 190w


=DOSTOEVSKII, FEDOR MIKHAILOVICH.= Gambler, and other stories; from the
Russian by Constance Garnett. *$1.50 (lc) Macmillan

  The ninth volume of Mrs Garnett’s translation of the works of
  Dostoevsky. It contains three stories, “The gambler,” “Poor people,”
  and “The landlady.” The title story follows the fortunes of a poor
  Russian tutor at a German resort where the roulette table furnished
  the main diversion—nay more, obsession. The best of him is his love of
  Polina. Under his eye she debases herself. Disillusionment leaves him
  easy prey for the fitful caprice of the roulette board. He is drawn
  into the vortex when the reader leaves him. “Poor people” portrays the
  struggles of folk of humble life. The story is told in a series of
  letters between an elderly clerk and a young girl who turns from him
  to marry a prosperous tradesman. The third tale, “The landlady,” tells
  the symbolic story of a luckless student who was baffled in liberating
  the girl he loved from the prison house that bound her.

       + =Ind= 93:151 Ja 26 ‘18 220w

  “Had Dostoevsky never written anything else these stories would
  suffice to give him rank among the great writers. They are not
  ‘pleasant’ tales, they are tales of the kind described by the
  quotation which heads ‘Poor people,’ tales that ‘unearth all sorts of
  unpleasant things,’ and therefore the lovers of sugary fiction will do
  well to avoid them. But those who care for human nature and for the
  art of writing will find them distinctly fascinating.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:516 D 2 ‘17 1300w

  “The first story in particular seems to us to have a sharpness and
  clearness of outline which is sometimes lacking in the author’s more
  elaborate works.”

       + =Outlook= 117:614 D 12 ‘17 80w

  “Mrs Garnett is one of the two best translators from the Russian that
  live to-day, but even she cannot make ‘The gambler, and other stories’
  anything but dull. It is at least pleasant to have in our hands a
  trustworthy and complete translation of the tales.”

     – + =Sat R= 124:311 O 20 ‘17 70w

  “‘The gambler’ is evidently based on a French model, and the humor is
  forced and metallic, as if the author were not really interested in
  his theme. The best story in the book is Dostoevsky’s first work,
  ‘Poor people.’”

     – + =Spec= 119:359 O 6 ‘17 920w

  “‘The gambler’ will throw a good deal of light upon the processes of
  the mind whose powers seem almost beyond analysis in such works as
  ‘The idiot’ and ‘The brothers Karamazov.’ If we call it second rate
  compared with these, we mean chiefly that it impresses us as a sketch
  flung off at tremendous and almost inarticulate speed by a writer of
  such abundant power that even into this trifle, this scribbled and
  dashed-off fragment, the fire of genius has been breathed.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p489 O 11 ‘17 1100w


=DOSTOEVSKII, FEDOR MIKHAILOVICH.= Pages from the journal of an author;
tr. by S. Koteliansky and J. Middleton Murry. (Modern Russian library)
*$1.25 (5c) Luce, J: W. 891.7 (Eng ed 17-20968)

  This book contains two selections. Of the first, “The dream of a queer
  fellow,” Mr Murry in his introduction says, “It is an epitome of the
  problems which tormented him.” With this dream allegory is included
  the speech on Pushkin, delivered on June 8, 1880 at the meeting of the
  Society of lovers of Russian literature, with additional notes.

         =Cleveland= p64 My ‘17 70w

  “The little story or essay of sombre intensity is a key to
  Dostoevsky’s works.” Nellie Poorman

         =Dial= 62:481 My 31 ‘17 800w

  “In the beatific vision described with such felicitous simplicity in
  ‘The dream of a queer fellow,’ the quintessence of Dostoevsky’s
  questionings, desolation, strivings and mental sufferings is revealed.
  One gets the strange feeling that he is telling truths beyond which
  there are no others.” D: Rosenstein

       + =N Y Call= p14 Jl 29 ‘17 2300w


=DOTY, ALVAH HUNT.= Good health; how to get it and how to keep it. il
*$1.50 (2c) Appleton 613 17-19827

  This book by the former health officer of the port of New York tells
  the layman, in simple terms, how to get well and how to keep well. “It
  has been the aim of the author to include in this book the essential
  and salient points in the construction of the body and function of its
  various parts; also to discuss public health problems, the maintenance
  of individual physical well-being, the means by which infectious
  diseases are transmitted and how they may be prevented, the importance
  of pure air, good water and nourishing food, as well as other matters
  connected with the subject of hygiene.” (Preface) The last chapter
  deals with “Prompt aid to the injured.”

  “No better or more authoritative book of this sort has appeared. It is
  thorough in its treatment of the subject, accurate in its statements
  and considers with much detail every phase of the question. Dr Doty
  takes nothing for granted as to how much his readers may know
  already.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:541 D 9 ‘17 470w

         =R of Rs= 56:555 N ‘17 50w


=DOTY, MADELEINE ZABRISKIE.= Short rations: an American woman in
Germany, 1915-1916. il *$1.50 (3c) Century 940.91 17-8352

  An account of two visits to the warring countries. “It is the story of
  what happens at home when men go to war,” says the author. She adds a
  significant paragraph in explanation of her title: “While the men at
  the front slaughter one another, at home the mothers and children, the
  sick, the aged, the prisoners, are starved spiritually,
  intellectually, and physically. Life becomes a fight for existence, a
  struggle for one’s self and not for humanity.” The first visit was
  made at the time of the Woman’s peace conference at The Hague. The
  second was made in 1916. Of particular interest is the account of the
  second visit to Germany.

  “A popular and moving appeal for a speedy cessation of war.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:345 My ‘17

         =Ath= p368 Jl ‘17 200w

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 4 ‘17 550w

  “An emotional book, obviously overdrawn, but moving in the extreme.”

         =Cleveland= p82 Je ‘17 70w

  “By means of a very feminine degree of intuition, a journalistic sense
  of observation, a telegraphic style, and a purely American sense of
  humor, Miss Doty has achieved one of the most suggestive reports of
  conditions inside the German empire that it has been our fortune to
  see.”

       + =Dial= 62:484 My 31 ‘17 370w

  “If Miss Doty had entered Germany less prejudiced against the
  government and the people and with some knowledge of the German
  language—she was entirely dependent upon interpreters—her book would
  have gained much in authority. At the same time her experiences are
  interesting, often exciting, and they are told with eagerness and
  zest.”

     + — =Nation= 105:129 Ag 2 ‘17 200w

  “In spite of the false vividness and fore-shortening of reality that
  is at a premium in American newspaper offices, in spite of occasional
  ‘worked up’ sentimentalism and a rather cheap-jewelry style, in spite
  of trivialities fused with basic interpretations in a common amalgam,
  ‘Short rations’ is a moving book. Miss Doty has a real passion for
  life, the woman’s horror at wasted flesh and broken bodies.”

   + – — =New Repub= 10:sup3 Ap 21 ‘17 400w

  “It is, so far as we know, the best account yet written by any woman
  on the subjects dealt with.” Joshua Wanhope

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ap 15 ‘17 350w

       + =N Y Times= 22:98 Mr 18 ‘17 380w

     – + =Spec= 119:390 O 13 ‘17 80w

  “Her views are not official. Therein lies their value. But the danger
  is that, moving largely among the people who have suffered most
  acutely from the war, she has given a one-sided picture. ... Miss
  Doty’s treatment of details is so incisive and vivid that the reader
  seems to share her experiences. Possibly in the long run her tone may
  strike one as slightly high-pitched.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 27 ‘17 1000w

  “The present volume belongs to that category of books whose chief
  raison d’etre is the reluctance of many educated persons to throw away
  notes made during travel and copies of letters written home. ... Not
  knowing the German language well, Miss Doty got a good many false
  impressions, and hands on some hearsay of doubtful authenticity.” B.
  L.

       — =Survey= 38:174 My 19 ‘17 280w

  “She writes vivaciously, and observes shrewdly where minor matters are
  concerned; but her vision of the larger issues is sadly blurred by
  sentimental tears.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p308 Je 28 ‘17 670w


=DOUBLEDAY, NELTJE BLANCHAN (DE GRAFF) (MRS FRANK NELSON DOUBLEDAY)
(NELTJE BLANCHAN, pseud.).= Birds worth knowing. (Little nature lib.;
Worth knowing ser.) il *$1.60 (2½c) Doubleday 598.2 17-13205

  The author has made selections from four of her previous books, “Bird
  neighbors,” “Birds that hunt and are hunted,” “How to attract the
  birds,” and “Birds every child should know.” Her aim has been to
  include in this single volume the “birds most worth knowing.” There
  are forty-eight illustrations in color, provided by the National
  association of Audubon societies.

  “The descriptive tables make the book more useful for bird study than
  ‘Birds every child should know,’ although, because the birds are
  grouped under families rather than colors, it has more worth as
  general interesting information than as an aid to identification.
  Illustrations are colored but are not as good as those of the other
  books. Color key and index.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:457 Jl ‘17

       + =Ind= 91:109 Jl 21 ‘17 60w

  “There is a very interesting and informing introductory chapter on
  ‘What birds do for us,’ that tells concisely their many activities in
  insect destruction and their consequent commercial value to man.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:254 Jl 8 ‘17 140w

  “Compact, but not skeletonized, condensation of a book that has
  already won its place.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 8 ‘17 110w


=DOUBLEDAY, NELTJE BLANCHAN (DE GRAFF) (MRS FRANK NELSON DOUBLEDAY)
(NELTJE BLANCHAN, pseud.).= Wild flowers worth knowing. (Little nature
lib.; Worth knowing ser.) il *$1.60 (2½c) Doubleday 580 17-13204

  This volume of the Little nature library has been adapted from the
  author’s “Nature’s garden” by Asa Don Dickinson. The flowers are
  arranged in families, the nomenclature and classification of Gray’s
  “New manual of botany” as revised by Professors Robinson and Fernald,
  being used. There are over forty illustrations in color.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:457 Jl ‘17

  “Well printed, well illustrated, and admirably adapted for home and
  school use.”

       + =Outlook= 116:116 My 16 ‘17 30w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 8 ‘17 110w


=DOUBLEDAY, ROMAN.= Green Tree mystery, il *$1.40 Appleton 17-24164

  “Upon the body of a man found dead by the roadside is a notebook in
  which is written a confession that he has killed the deservedly
  unpopular rich man of the village. The search for an adequate motive
  opens up so many possibilities that the daughter of the murdered man
  employs a detective to discover the truth. The solution will come as a
  surprise to most readers.”—Cleveland

  “The interest is well sustained.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:94 D ‘17

  “A conventional detective story, following its tangled clues with
  indifference to anything but the pursuit in hand, and making a very
  pretty chase of it.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:342 N ‘17 30w

       + =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 70w

  “Its interest is largely due to the skill with which the author keeps
  the reader guessing as to the outcome.”

       + =Dial= 64:78 Ja 17 ‘18 30w

  “The little tale is entertaining and sufficiently baffling.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:413 O 21 ‘17 250w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 160w


=DOVER, ALFRED T.= Electric traction; a treatise on the application of
electric power to tramways and railways. il *$5.50 Macmillan 621.3
17-19497

  “The author of this book is a lecturer on electric traction at the
  Battersea Polytechnic, London, and the text is about what one would
  expect to find in a comprehensive course of lectures on electric
  traction. The style is appropriate to such a lecture course. In
  preparing the material for a wider audience Mr Dover had in mind that
  the book would be useful to engineers as well as to advanced students.
  A considerable number of illustrations of present practice are
  naturally drawn from that of Great Britain and the Continent, but
  American railways have by no means been neglected. The fundamental
  principles are, of course, applicable everywhere. The author has
  treated the main subject with the following topics as subdivisions:
  Mechanics of train movement; motors; control; auxiliary apparatus;
  rolling stock; detailed study of train movement; track and overhead
  construction, and distributing systems and substations. He has not
  tried to cover generating stations and transmission lines. ... The
  book is profusely illustrated with pictures and diagrams, covers
  direct-current and alternating-current railways, contains a great deal
  of comment as well as descriptive matter, and should prove a valuable
  reference work.”—Elec World

  “Noteworthy are the line drawings especially those showing the details
  of electric locomotives.”

         =Bul N Y Pub Library= 21:483 Jl ‘17 80w

         =Cleveland= p93 Jl ‘17 60w

       + =Elec World= 70:216 Ag 4 ‘17 480w

  “We congratulate the author on having succeeded in writing a treatise
  which engineers and advanced students will find most useful. He is
  evidently well read in the literature of the subject, most of which is
  published in the Proceedings of various engineering societies and
  technical journals, both in this country and abroad, and is therefore
  inaccessible to many. ... We have satisfactorily checked some of the
  calculations, and the book is laudably free from misprints. ... The
  numerous references form a useful feature of the book.” A. Russell

       + =Nature= 99:341 Je 28 ‘17 1200w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:105 Jl ‘17

  “Noteworthy are the line drawings, especially those showing the
  details of electric locomotives.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p9 Ap ‘17 100w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:658 O ‘17 20w


=DOWD, EMMA C.= Polly and the princess. il [2] *$1.35 (1½c) Houghton
17-29865

  The June Holiday home is a sort of glorified old ladies’ home. Little
  Polly is a young philanthropist who, because she is Dr Dudley’s
  daughter, is a privileged visitor at the home. She interests herself
  in the group of women, singling out for special attention, Juanita
  Sterling, a sweet, neurotic woman of forty-one, whose youth and charm
  were still with her in spite of the loveless loneliness that had tried
  to rob her of both. Polly must have been born with the reformer’s
  spirit and more than average tact. She was too young to have developed
  them. She puts to shame many an institution manager and makes a
  substantial contribution to desirable constructive methods on the
  human side of institution management. And what of her Miss Nita? Polly
  caps the program of happiness which she puts into action in the home
  by a real romance. She sees a prince overcome the dragon
  superintendent of the home and carry off the princess. What better
  ending could her lively imagination picture?


=DOWDEN, EDWARD; GARNETT, RICHARD, and ROSSETTI, WILLIAM MICHAEL.=
Letters about Shelley; interchanged by three friends; ed., with an
introd., by R. S. Garnett. *$2 (3c) Doran (Eng ed 17-30909)

  “The three friends were brought together by their common interest in
  Shelley, an interest not merely in his poetry, but in every detail of
  his life. Mr Rossetti and Professor Dowden both wrote lives of
  Shelley. Dr Garnett meant to write one, and was always collecting
  materials for it; but he was too busy in the British museum ever to do
  so. Still, to the other two he was the great authority on Shelley,
  always ready to help them with his knowledge.” (The Times [London] Lit
  Sup) The letters, the first of which is dated 1869 and the last 1906,
  have been brought together by the cooperation of Mr W. M. Rossetti,
  Mrs Dowden, and the editor, the eldest son of third correspondent. The
  introduction, by R. S. and M. Garnett, gives brief biographies of the
  three letter-writers.

  “Although in recent years we have had many books about Shelley, it is
  doubtful if we have had any at all comparable to the compilation of
  letters made from the correspondence of these three Shelley workers
  and enthusiasts. ... In its way, their book is a revelation of the art
  of biography making.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 17 ‘17 1500w

         =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 70w

  “It comprises the greater part of the correspondence of three notable
  authorities on the poet, and reflects the broad-minded interest of
  each in literature and life in general. The most important general
  fact to be elicited from them is that of Dowden’s independence of the
  poet’s family. These letters show clearly that he followed his own
  opinion in essentials.”

       + =Dial= 63:645 D 20 ‘17 400w

  “The letters interchanged by Dowden, Garnett and Rossetti communicate
  something that a biography can hardly communicate; they tell something
  of the spirit in which such work ought to be done; they make the
  reader collaborate in imagination with the biographer—make him an
  apprentice to a master.”

       + =No Am= 206:956 D ‘17 670w

  “They contain some interesting matter in regard to Shelley, as well as
  speculations on the meaning of Shakespeare’s ‘Sonnets’ and other
  literary problems.”

       + =Spec= 119:145 Ag 11 ‘17 90w

  “An interest which produces relations so charming must be good in
  itself; and the record of it puts one in love with human nature, even
  though it may sometimes set one smiling at the minute labours of the
  scholar and his mysterious, incorporeal passions.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p331 Jl 12 ‘17 980w


=DOWNER, EARL BISHOP.= Highway of death. il *$1.50 Davis 940.91 16-21959

  “When the last battle of the war is fought and the casualties are
  figured up it is not likely that the doctors, nurses and hospital
  assistants who have sacrificed their lives will be forgotten. ... Dr
  Downer gives many enlightening facts about them. Among other things he
  describes the makeshift accommodations where, with inadequate help,
  the doctors have been forced to undertake almost impossible tasks. ...
  Dr Downer had unusual facilities of studying this momentous conflict.
  During a nine-months’ stay in Belgrade he saw the varied changes of
  occupation of that embattled city.”—Springf’d Republican

         =Cleveland= p159 D ‘16 40w

         =St Louis= 15:3 Ja ‘17

  “The book, which is unusually interesting as a record of real
  experiences, is illustrated with many photographs taken by the author
  himself.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 25 ‘17 200w


=DOYLE, SIR ARTHUR CONAN.= His last bow; a reminiscence of Sherlock
Holmes. *$1.35 (2c) Doran 17-28603

  The inventor of Mr Sherlock Holmes and of Dr Watson has again given us
  a series of sketches relating their detective experiences. Seven of
  the eight sketches have, however, as Dr Watson states in his preface,
  lain long in his portfolio. The incidents narrated date back to 1892.
  The last adventure, from which the book takes its title, occurred on
  August 2, 1914. In it Sherlock Holmes has placed his genius at the
  service of his country for the undoing of the agents of the Kaiser.
  Contents: The adventure of Wisteria Lodge; The adventure of the
  cardboard box; The adventure of the red circle; The adventure of the
  Bruce-Partington plans; The adventure of the dying detective; The
  disappearance of Lady Frances Carfax; The adventure of the devil’s
  foot; His last bow.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:95 D ‘17

  “Every story is told with the author’s admirable mastery of the
  narrative art; but it cannot be said that all the riddles worked out
  by the great detective are, intellectually, worthy of his immense
  reputation.”

     + — =Ath= p680 D ‘17 180w

  “‘The disappearance of Lady Frances Carfax’ and ‘The adventure of the
  devil’s foot’ reveal Sir Arthur at his best, although this cannot be
  said of the opening stories in the collection. But the detective story
  writer must have his ups and downs, and the creator of Sherlock Holmes
  can easily stand ahead of any of his rivals or imitators.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 O 27 ‘17 1550w

         =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 30w

       + =Dial= 64:78 Ja 17 ‘18 70w

       + =Ind= 92:385 N 24 ‘17 100w

  “It is a good curtain for our hero, and we are not sure that Sir Conan
  would not be wise to leave him ‘at that.’”

       + =Nation= 105:694 D 20 ‘17 200w

  “These new stories are written with as much vigor and spontaneity as
  if they had been composed in the first flush of the author’s delight
  in his creation of that notable character. The formula in accordance
  with which the tales are written, of course, varies little, but the
  tales themselves are as interesting, as full of ingenuity and
  unexpected developments, as were the earliest of the adventures in
  which Dr Watson assisted Mr Sherlock Holmes.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:433 O 28 ‘17 1050w

  “The story of the European war that gives the volume its title is
  quite the weakest and most obviously forced of the whole lot. ... The
  sheer horror and yet convincing explanation of the apparently
  inexplicable in ‘The adventure of the devil’s foot’ has not been
  matched by Doyle since ‘The adventure of the speckled band.’” Fremont
  Rider

       + =Pub W= 92:2026 D 8 ‘17 270w

  “As for the stories, their impressiveness is somewhat impaired by the
  frequency with which they end in a confession. The best of them, to
  our way of thinking, is the tale of the abstraction and recovery of
  some important documents from the admiralty.”

     + — =Spec= 119:718 D 15 ‘17 600w

  “Notwithstanding that the episodes comprising the volume have
  something of a common atmosphere and a predetermined course of
  development, the situations are sufficiently diverse to give a keen
  edge to the reader’s anticipation. The author shows wisdom in not
  placing the action in the present and giving Holmes a hand in
  ferreting out war plots.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 260w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p516 O 25 ‘17 500w


=DOYLE, SIR ARTHUR CONAN.= History of the great war. v 2 *$2 (3c) Doran
940.91 17-21928

  =v 2= The British campaign in France and Flanders, 1915.

  “This second volume of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s history of the war
  relates exclusively to the campaign of 1915. The author roughly
  divides the three years of war into ‘the year of defence, the year of
  equilibrium, and the year of attack’; and the events of the second
  were naturally less dramatic than those which more nearly followed the
  outbreak of war. Nevertheless the present volume comprises narratives
  of the engagements at Neuve Chapelle and Hill 60; the second battle of
  Ypres; the conflicts at Richebourg, Festubert, and in the trenches of
  Hooge; and the long-drawn-out fighting at Loos. The occasions are
  described when the Germans first used poison gas and the flame of
  burning petrol, and there is incidental reference to the torpedoing of
  the Lusitania. From beginning to end the volume is an unadorned but
  impressive record of gallantry and ‘grit’ on the part of the troops
  engaged.”—Ath

         =A L A Bkl= 14:53 N ‘17

       + =Ath= p420 Ag ‘17 150w

  “This is an important book. It bears evidence of much research and has
  an authoritative tone. So far as is possible at this stage, it is real
  history. Such a work will be read with more interest in England than
  in America. The evolutions of the Durham light infantry and the First
  royal Irish will naturally appeal more to those who know them than to
  us who do not. But the book as a whole leaves a powerful impression
  hardly to be obtained from any other work thus far published.”

       + =Dial= 63:592 D 6 ‘17 300w

         =Ind= 92:60 O 6 ‘17 150w

  “While the events of the year 1915, in view of all that has happened
  since, seem nowadays rather like ancient history, it is only by the
  careful reading in cold blood of such painstakingly written accounts
  of what actually took place that we can arrive at a correct estimate
  of the great struggle in its earlier stages.”

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 29 ‘17 370w

  “It is somewhat of a pity that more illuminating maps have not been
  provided for an otherwise important and notable historical volume.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:sup18 N 17 ‘17 180w

       + =R of Rs= 57:214 F ‘18 50w

  “In his first volume the author described the doings of the British
  Army in France and Flanders during 1914, and he is able to say in the
  preface to his second volume which is before us that no serious
  correction has been made of any of the facts in the first volume. That
  is a proud statement for any writer to be able to make in the
  circumstances. We can premise that Sir A. Conan Doyle will be able to
  say the same thing of his second volume, and be able to say it in an
  even higher degree, because when an author has established his
  reputation for correctness, and for a safe and just handling of his
  material, information flows into him. That is his proper reward. We
  imagine that Sir A. Conan Doyle has been freely given official
  information, and certainly we have read nothing about the second
  battle of Ypres and Loos which can compare for completeness with the
  narratives in the second volume.”

       + =Spec= 118:88 Jl 28 ‘17 1350w

  “The narrative reduces itself to a catalogue of the doings of
  battalions, of the names of the individuals who principally
  distinguished themselves, and of the casualties of different units.
  Probably Sir Arthur, knowing the limitations of his material,
  attempted no more than this; and we may say at once that he has been
  successful in weaving his scanty matter into a lively and spirited
  story.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p338 Jl 19 ‘17 1600w


=DRESSER, HORATIO WILLIS.= Handbook of the new thought. *$1.25 (3c)
Putnam 131 17-13214

  In his exposition of new thought, which forms the first chapter, the
  author differentiates it from Christian science, the Emmanuel
  movement, etc. The author says, “The ‘old’ thought against which the
  ‘new’ reacts is any form of authority, whether medical or
  ecclesiastical, in so far as physicians and churches keep people in
  subjection to creeds.” The second chapter gives a historical sketch of
  the movement. This is followed by chapters on: The silent method;
  Estimate; The mental theory of disease; Reconstruction; Practical
  suggestions.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:423 Jl ‘17

  “Will, no doubt, be helpful to many readers but it is a baffling
  attempt to show that theories do not matter, so long as one has the
  right ‘point of view.’ Its logic is distressingly confusing to one who
  has been contaminated by materialist science; but there must be
  something in it, since Mr Dresser’s books—more than a dozen of
  them—are widely read by all sorts and conditions of men and women.”

     – + =Ind= 91:512 S 29 ‘17 80w

  “Is to be especially commended to those who desire a brief but
  comprehensive view of the nature, history, and aims of the movement.
  No one is better qualified than Dr Dresser to present an authoritative
  account of the new thought, both because of his long association with
  it and also because of his very reasonable and even empirical way of
  looking at the whole subject.”

       + =Nation= 105:698 D 20 ‘17 400w

  “Does away with misunderstanding.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:106 Jl ‘17 100w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p432 S 6 ‘17 80w


=DRESSER, HORATIO WILLIS=, ed. Spirit of the new thought. *$1.25 (2½c)
Crowell 131 17-14165

  Twenty-two messages from original leaders of new thought. The editor
  contributes an introduction which traces the movement from its
  beginning, showing that the term was first used in 1895 as the name of
  a little periodical issued in Melrose, Mass., and later by the
  adherents who practiced mental healing. The influence of Quinby upon
  the movement is traced and the essential difference between new
  thought and Christian science is pointed out. Some of the essays are:
  The gospel of healing; Can disease be entirely destroyed? The disease
  of apprehensiveness; Concentration; Is mental science enough?
  Criticisms of the new thought; The metaphysical movement; The new
  thought today; The laws of divine healing.

         =Nation= 105:698 D 20 ‘17 230w

  “This greatly needed volume should dispel a widely prevalent
  misunderstanding and neglect of the revival of primitive Christianity
  now advancing under the banner of new thought.”

       + =Outlook= 117:144 S 26 ‘17 150w

  “Nearly all of the essays have a bearing on the life of everyday and
  are vivified by a spirit of helpfulness and optimism.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:106 Jl ‘17 60w


=DRESSER, HORATIO WILLIS.= Victorious faith; moral ideals in war time.
*$1 (2c) Harper 172.4 17-24116

  A helpful analysis of the modification of duties which the changing
  order of the things in the world today makes imperative. Some old
  philosophies must be scrapped according to the Shavian method and
  created new; while others must be readjusted to meet new conditions.
  We need a new method of thought to face new conditions with efficient
  hope. The mind must be alert to seek amidst present confusion new
  signs of the eternal values. The discussion offers constructive
  suggestions for meeting the new problems of the day which demand poise
  as a basis for service and an inner life that will be efficient.
  Contents: The sources of faith; Tendencies of the age; The psychology
  of war; The higher resistance; The moral values; The new idea of God;
  Christianity in war-time; The pathway of faith; Spiritual democracy.

  “The author offers a constructive faith which may help the world work
  its way to a final spiritual democracy.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:73 D ‘17

         =Bookm= 46:290 N ‘17 20w

  “The viewpoints of the essays are finely optimistic. Strength-giving
  to those whose faith in Christianity needs strengthening. Splendidly
  vivifying to those Americans who ‘creditably or discreditably’ felt
  they had no share in the world war, before April, 1917.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 3 ‘17 340w

       + =Outlook= 117:184 O 3 ‘17 150w


=DROWN, EDWARD STAPLES.= Apostles’ creed to-day. (Church principles for
lay people) *$1 (4c) Macmillan 238 17-3743

  In his first chapter the author asks the question: Is a creed a
  restraint on religious liberty? His consideration of the nature of
  freedom leads him to the conclusion that “Freedom exists in proportion
  as the community has come to a true realisation of itself, and has
  expressed itself in true laws. Freedom consists in fight relation to
  law.” He finds the Apostles’ creed a true expression of man’s relation
  to God and therefore a guarantee to religious freedom. The five
  chapters of the book are: Creeds and liberty; The origin and character
  of the Apostles’ creed; The creed and the Bible; The interpretation of
  the Apostles’ creed to-day; The value and use of the creed to-day.

  “The author summarizes Dr McGiffert’s theory of the origin of the
  creed; and then seeks to reinterpret its clauses in terms of modern
  thought.”

         =Ind= 90:474 Je 9 ‘17 50w

  “The book is an earnest contribution from the Episcopal church to
  conservative theological thought.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 16 ‘17 520w


=DRUMMOND, HAMILTON.= Greater than the greatest. *$1.50 Dutton A17-1641

  “A tale of the thirteenth century struggle between emperor and pope.
  It is not a story of men and women whose lives merely touched the
  great events of the time, but of those great events themselves and of
  the people who actually played the leading parts therein. Across the
  stage of Mr Drummond’s book go pope and emperor, cardinal and warrior
  of mediaeval Rome. ... The heroine of the novel is Bianca Pandone, a
  beautiful girl of the Marches, whose uncle, risen to eminence as a
  cardinal, forgets her and her poverty until he needs a tool for his
  ambitious schemes.”—N Y Times

       + =Boston Transcript= p12 Ap 7 ‘17 200w

  “A harmless romance. ... It lacks imaginative power, and so makes no
  deep impression.”

         =Ind= 90:594 Je 30 ‘17 50w

       + =Nation= 104:460 Ap 19 ‘17 200w

  “The story has the prime characteristic of a good historical novel; it
  presents an atmosphere. And it has a quality, besides, that is not
  always found in stories of adventures—its characters are exceedingly
  well-drawn.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:178 My 6 ‘17 350w

  “A workmanlike historical tale.”

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 10w


=DRYDEN, JAMES.= Poultry breeding and management, il *$1.60 (1½c) Judd
636.5 16-23156

  The author teaches poultry husbandry in the Oregon agricultural
  college. The book is planned for the student and for the practical
  poultry farmer. Contents: Historical aspect; Evolution of modern fowl;
  Modern development of industry; Classification of breeds; Origin and
  description of breeds; Principles of poultry breeding; Problem of
  higher fecundity; Systems of poultry farming; Housing of poultry; Kind
  of house to build; Fundamentals of feeding; Common poultry foods;
  Methods of feeding; Methods of hatching chickens; Artificial brooding;
  Marketing eggs and poultry; Diseases and parasites of fowls. The book
  is fully illustrated.

  “A reliable, popular yet scientific treatment.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:295 Ap ‘17


=DUBNOV, SEMEN MARKOVICH.= History of the Jews in Russia and Poland,
from the earliest times until the present day; tr. from the Russian by
I. Friedlaender. 2v v 1 $1.50 (1c) Jewish pub. 296 (16-16352)

  =v 1= This is the first of two volumes covering the history of the
  Jews in Russia and Poland. The Russian work of which it is a
  translation was prepared, Mr Friedlaender says, especially for the
  Jewish publication society of America. The author had treated the
  subject earlier in a general history of the Jewish people in three
  volumes, and that work has been drawn on in preparing the present
  work. Volume one carries the history down to the death of Alexander I
  in 1825 with chapters on: The Jewish Diaspora in eastern Europe; The
  Jewish colonies in Poland and Lithuania; The autonomous center in
  Poland at its zenith (1501-1648); The inner life of Polish Jewry at
  its zenith; The autonomous center in Poland during its decline
  (1648-1772); The inner life of Polish Jewry during the period of
  decline; The Russian quarantine against the Jews (till 1772); Polish
  Jewry during the period of the partitions; The beginnings of the
  Russian regime; The “enlightened absolutism” of Alexander I; The inner
  life of Russian Jewry during the period of ‘enlightened absolutism’;
  The last years of Alexander I.

  “It is surprising and disappointing that in a work of this kind there
  is no attempt made to discuss in an impartial and in an intelligent
  manner the Jewish problem, which is neither simple nor one-sided. ...
  Although authorities are not always quoted there is no reason to
  question the author’s accuracy and honesty and one may accept his
  statements of fact. The work is valuable so far as it goes; but the
  reader cannot help wishing that the author had gone deeper and had
  given something more than mere information. The translator seems to
  have done his work well, and it is probably not his fault that the
  book does not read more easily.”

     + — =Am Hist R= 22:626 Ap ‘17 500w

  “A full account, by the best authority on the subject, of the
  political conditions under which the Jews have lived. ... It is much
  more detailed than Friedlaender’s ‘Jews of Russia and Poland’ and is
  valuable to anyone interested in the subject.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:329 My ‘17

       + =Ind= 90:517 Je 16 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:167 N ‘16

         =Pittsburgh= 21:516 N ‘16

       + =R of Rs= 54:458 O ‘16 100w


=DUBOIS, JAMES T., AND MATHEWS, GERTRUDE SINGLETON.= Galusha A. Grow,
father of the homestead law. il *$1.75 Houghton 17-11003

  “Galusha A. Grow, while never occupying a place in the front rank of
  American statesmen, was yet a prominent man during the Civil war—he
  was speaker of the national House of representatives in 1861 and
  1862—and the years immediately preceding it. ... Before the passage of
  Mr Grow’s ‘Homestead act,’ the public lands had been sold by the
  government to speculators, who disposed of them, sometimes at
  extortionate profits, to the needy settlers. ... After years of
  setbacks and disappointments, Mr Grow’s measure finally passed in
  1861. Before that time, however, it had become inextricably mixed up
  with the Kansas-Nebraska and slavery questions. In the opinion of
  President Lincoln, the ‘Homestead’ act was the most beneficent
  legislation ever passed by a law-making body.”—Springf’d Republican

  “As a life of Grow this book will hardly justify itself, for its basis
  is too slight; but as a sketch of a portion of the history of the
  public domain it will have a use.” F: L. Paxson

     – + =Am Hist R= 23:221 O ‘17 500w

       + =Lit D= 54:1423 My 12 ‘17 700w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:525 Je ‘17 40w

  “An important contribution to American biography, and a highly
  readable book as well. ... Not the least interesting part of this
  readable volume is that relating to the services of Mr Grow as speaker
  in Congress during the troublous days of the Civil war.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 21 ‘17 400w


=DUFF, JAMES DUFF=, ed. Russian realities and problems. *$1.50 (3c)
Putnam 914.7 (Eng ed 17-13746)

  “This very able and illuminating little book contains six lectures
  delivered at the last Cambridge summer meeting by Paul Milyoukov, New
  Russia’s foreign minister; Peter Struve, the economist; Roman Dmowski,
  the Polish leader; Lappo-Danilevsky, the historian; and Dr Harold
  Williams, the Daily Chronicle’s correspondent, whose knowledge of
  Russian languages and manners is unsurpassed by any native. ... Mr
  Struve’s parallel between Russia and America as two vast and but
  partly developed countries in the colonial stage is extremely
  suggestive.”—Spec

  “We have never read anything half so good, on ‘The nationalities of
  Russia,’ as Dr Williams’s clear and impartial statement of a
  stupendous problem, of which the Finnish and Polish questions are but
  fragments. ... Every one who wants to understand Russia should make a
  point of reading this remarkable book.”

       + =Spec= 118:493 Ap 28 ‘17 320w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p171 Ap 12 ‘17 1000w


=DUFFERIN AND AVA, HARIOT GEORGINA (HAMILTON) HAMILTON-TEMPLE-BLACKWOOD,
dowager marchioness of.= My Russian and Turkish journals. il *$3.75
Scribner (*10s 6d Murray, London) 17-2676

  “The author’s letters to her mother, written in the years 1879-84, are
  the material of which this book is composed. The late Lord Dufferin
  during the period in question was at first ambassador to Russia, and
  later at Constantinople; but the letters relate only to the social
  life in the embassies and to the writer’s personal experiences in the
  countries visited. Germany was one of these; and accounts are given of
  visits to the Emperor William I and the late Prince Bismarck. Lord and
  Lady Dufferin were in Petrograd at the time of the assassination of
  the Emperor Alexander II, whose funeral obsequies are described.”—Ath

  “Lady Dufferin would feel either amused or horrified to think that
  these journals were to be submitted to critical review; or that they
  were to be estimated for anything other than what they really are: a
  casual record of the trivial commonplaces of an ambassador’s
  household. ... We are quite disposed to take this book in the spirit
  in which it is offered, as a somewhat unusual memento for a war
  subscription.” C. E. Fryer

         =Am Hist R= 22:901 Jl ‘17 330w

  “The letters are quite pleasant reading, and many celebrities figure
  in the volume: among them, Sir Richard Francis (then Mr) Burton,
  George Augustus Sala, Sir Archibald Alison, Baker Pasha, and Madame
  Schliemann, wife of the archæologist and explorer.”

       + =Ath= p49 Ja ‘17 220w

  “The portions of the journals visualizing Turkish life give a
  succession of pictures seldom presented; visits to various harems,
  Turkish dinner parties, weddings, etc. which few foreigners see.” F.
  B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 My 9 ‘17 800w

  “Pleasant accounts of personal experiences and social life.”

       + =Cleveland= p116 S ‘17 40w

  “It is difficult to convey an adequate idea of the delicately archaic
  flavor of these letters from a period presenting such a sharp contrast
  to the present one in Russia and Turkey. Their chief interest,
  however, is in the brightly reflected personality of a gracious lady.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:378 O 7 ‘17 570w

  “Particularly valuable for its detailed but interesting information
  concerning the customs and ceremonies of ‘high life’ in these
  countries.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:670 O ‘17 30w

         =Pratt= p46 O ‘17 20w

       + =Spec= 118:241 F 24 ‘17 130w

  “Lady Dufferin has deliberately confined herself to the externals of
  ambassadorial life.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p570 N 30 ‘16 1600w

  “Her journals, though entirely without intellectual distinction, are
  filled with agreeable gossip, and portraits of world-figures; her
  detailed account of dining with Bismarck is well worth reading.” W: L.
  Phelps

       + =Yale R= n s 7:187 O ‘17 120w


=DUGARD, HENRY.= Battle of Verdun; tr. by F. Appleby Holt. il *$1.50
(3c) Dodd 940.91 (Eng ed 17-8208)

  The time covered in this account of the battle of Verdun is from
  February 21 to May 7. As an introduction to the battle proper there
  are two brief chapters on Verdun and its past and Verdun during the
  war. These are followed by The Crown prince’s battle; The choice of
  ground; The battlefield; The French positions; The assaulting army;
  Before the battle; The first shock; etc. The closing chapter, The
  German attitude, gives a poll of the German press. There is a folding
  map as frontispiece.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:53 N ‘17

  “A complete and on the whole dispassionate history of the battle.”

       + =Cleveland= p86 Jl ‘17 40w

       + =N Y Times= 22:323 S 2 ‘17 140w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:681 O ‘17 10w

         =St Louis= 15:314 S ‘17 10w

       + =Spec= 118:105 Ja 27 ‘17 50w


=DUNBAR, CHARLES FRANKLIN.=[2] Theory and history of banking *$1.50 (2c)
Putnam 332 17-31428

  A third edition, revised and enlarged by Oliver M. W. Sprague. It
  contains three new chapters, those on Foreign exchange, Central banks
  and The Federal reserve banking system. Two chapters of the former
  edition have been dropped, the one on Combined reserves and that on
  the Bank of Amsterdam. The chapter on Daily redemption has been merged
  with the chapter on Bank-notes. The writer states that emphasis on the
  interdependence of all the banks of a country in the regular conduct
  of business of banking is the most fundamental difference between this
  and the earlier editions.


=DUNCAN, FRANCES (MRS JOHN LEROY MANNING).= Joyous art of gardening. il
*$1.75 (3½c) Scribner 716 17-12144

  “This little book is designed to serve as first aid to the beginning
  gardener. It is arranged to be of use especially to the owner of the
  small place who plans and makes his own garden, and whose means and
  time are not unlimited. ... Therefore, only those plants which are
  surest to grow are properly within the compass of this book.”
  (Preface) Parts of the book are reprinted from the Century Magazine,
  Ladies’ Home Journal, Country Life in America, and other periodicals.
  Among the chapters are: In praise of gardening; Suburban gardening;
  Fitting the garden to the house; The garden in town; The back-yard
  fence; The use and abuse of the pergola; Why gardens go wrong; The
  old-fashioned garden. The author is a member of the council of the
  Woman’s national farm and garden association.

  “It will be particularly useful to the owner of a small place whose
  means and time are not unlimited.”

       + =Agricultural Digest= 2:505 Je ‘17 200w

  “Besides good advice on operation and cultivation, it gives
  information on pergolas, lattices, and trellises, cold frames, hotbeds
  and garden seats and their arrangement.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:48 N ‘17

  “Clear and reliable working directions for the beginning amateur whose
  ground, means, and time are alike limited.”

       + =Cleveland= p113 S ‘17 50w

       + =Dial= 63:68 Jl 19 ‘17 300w

  “The feature of the book is its treatment of details often overlooked
  or mistreated, and its emphasis on the unpretentious, restful
  qualities that lie within the compass of any plot, be it small or
  large.”

       + =Ind= 90:554 Je 23 ‘17 130w

  “Frankly a handbook. ... It is practical, it does not presuppose a
  great amount of knowledge on the part of the gardener; it assumes only
  the love of plants and the desire for them. It is detailed; it gives
  actual concrete directions, outlines a garden calendar, takes up the
  fine points of many a specific inquiry. It is admirably inclusive. ...
  It is a most excellent book.”

     + + =N Y Times= 22:187 My 13 ‘17 350w

         =Pratt= p29 O ‘17 10w

  “It has a literary quality that puts it rather outside the class of
  ordinary gardening manuals or handbooks. Miss Duncan has adopted a
  certain informality of treatment that makes her book doubly
  interesting to the amateur for whom it was written.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:664 Je ‘17 130w

         =St Louis= 15:176 Je ‘17

  “A book of first-aid to the amateur. ... While it is but one of many
  such volumes it is sure to be one of the most popular.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 250w


=DUNCAN-JONES, ARTHUR STUART.= Ordered liberty; or, An Englishman’s
belief in his church. *$1.25 (4c) Longmans 283 A17-1509

  Based upon the Hulsean lectures delivered before the University of
  Cambridge, 1916-1917. It is a forward looking justification of the
  church and Christianity in which the writer reviews the true character
  of the Anglican communion. He considers the question under various
  aspects: as sharing in the Divine foundation and continuous life of
  the people of God; as part of that great priesthood of humanity which
  is the Catholic church; as emerging from the Roman government of
  western Christendom and making a bold national experiment in the way
  of religion; as adhering to its ideals of faith; and as developing, in
  the face of difficulties, out of the origins of the past, a permanent
  stronghold of truth and righteousness for the union and triumph of the
  people of God. A very modern note is struck in the author’s linking
  socialism in its broadly spiritual aspect with Christianity as the two
  great “driving powers which can turn the ideal for which the world
  longs into faith.”

  “A timely little book. It is interesting, clear and thoughtful. The
  temperate tone and the evident desire to understand differences and
  contribute a constructive program give it a message that many will
  read with profit.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 16 ‘17 550w


=DUNHAM, MELBOURNE KEITH.= Automobile welding with the oxy-acetylene
flame. il $1 (3c) Henley 682 16-22111

  “A practical treatise, covering the repairing of automobiles by
  welding, with a non-technical explanation of the principles to be
  guided by in the successful welding of the various metals.”
  (Title-page) The preface says further, “The workman who can
  successfully weld all automobile parts is capable of welding anything,
  since in the construction of the automobile practically every
  commercial metal is used. The principles of automobile welding are
  applicable to all kinds of welding.” Contents: Apparatus knowledge;
  Shop equipment and initial procedure; Cast iron; Aluminum; Steel;
  Malleable iron, copper, brass, bronze; Carbon burning and other uses
  of oxygen and acetylene; How to figure cost of welding.

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p11 Jl ‘17 50w

  “Practical, simply written work, of wider application than to
  automobile welding.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:321 Ap ‘17 30w


=DUNN, BYRON ARCHIBALD.= Boy scouts of the Shenandoah. (Young Virginians
ser.) il *$1.10 McClurg 16-20109

  “‘The Boy scouts of the Shenandoah’ is the first of a new series of
  Civil war stories for boys. ... The volume follows the adventures of
  Robert Hunter, who represents the Virginian aristocracy and Jim
  Kidder, a young mountaineer. The two boys are independent scouts
  with the Union army, and their adventures are many and
  thrilling.”—Springf’d Republican

  “This is the type of book that contains much information, and
  evidently the author’s desire has been to verify his historical
  statements, for there are many foot-notes throughout the book.”

       + =Lit D= 53:1561 D 9 ‘16 110w

         =R of Rs= 55:108 Ja ‘17 20w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 11 ‘17 80w


=DUNN, WALDO HILARY.= English biography. (Channels of English
literature) *$1.50 Dutton 920 17-4579

  “Prof. Dunn considers his subject both chronologically and
  analytically. His conclusion regarding ‘true biography’ is that its
  aims ‘include a record of facts combined with some portrayal of
  character.’ Biography, he says, ‘may be said to develop in proportion
  to the degree of accuracy attained in the presentation of mere facts;
  the measure of its detachment from panegyric, or other didactic
  intention, and the extent to which it recognizes truth of character
  portrayal as its first duty.’ ... Prof. Dunn wisely takes a broad view
  of his subject matter, even if he is somewhat rigid in his
  definitions. He notes that the diaries of Pepys and Evelyn must be
  reckoned as biographical, as, of course, must the journals of Wesley,
  Fox and Scott. Fiction’s debt to biography is considered.”—Springf’d
  Republican

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:399 Je ‘17

  “In general, Professor Dunn’s survey of the entire course of English
  biography is thorough and unprejudiced.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 24 ‘17 630w

  “The treatment is not only historical, but includes some valuable
  definitions of the function and place of biography in letters, and its
  relation to other subjects, notably fiction and also some excellent
  critical material on specific biographies. The unattractive make-up
  and fine print of the book will affect its popularity.”

     + — =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 100w

  “It does for English biography what another pioneer work of a few
  years ago did for autobiography; we mean Mrs Burr’s treatise on that
  theme. ... In its appended matter and its index the book maintains the
  scholarly system with which it begins. It is a useful manual.”

       + =Dial= 62:532 Je 14 ‘17 200w

  “It is no mere chronicle of names, but rather a thoughtful and
  interesting analysis of the true function of biography as a literary
  art. ... It is a book which has much matter for reflection both for
  the critic and for the composer of biography, fiction, and history.”

       + =Nation= 104:554 My 3 ‘17 100w

  “Professor Dunn is to be congratulated for his able work, done with no
  previously written volumes to serve as standards. Indeed, with his
  skillful scholarship, interesting writing, and careful organization of
  his material, he may well be said to have established such a standard.
  ‘English biography’ stands the test of comparison with the best
  scholarly work yet done by American or foreign writers.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:191 My 13 ‘17 550w

  “Prof. Dunn’s book affords proof of the richness and large extent of
  English biographical works, and should encourage the public to enlarge
  its reading in an entertaining and highly profitable department of
  letters.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 1 ‘17 780w


=DUNSANY, EDWARD JOHN MORETON DRAX PLUNKETT, 18th baron.= Plays of gods
and men. *$1.50 Luce, J: W. 822 17-13749

  Four of Lord Dunsany’s plays are included in this volume: The tents of
  the Arabs; The laughter of the gods; The queen’s enemies; and A night
  at an inn. The first of these, Edward Bierstadt in his recent study of
  Lord Dunsany says, is the only one of his plays that contains anything
  nearly approaching a love story. It appeared in the Smart Set for
  March, 1915 and was produced at the Arts and crafts theater in Detroit
  in 1916. “A night at an inn” was published by The Sun-Wise Turn, inc.,
  in 1916 and has been played, as has “The queen’s enemies,” by the
  Neighborhood Players of New York city.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:49 N ‘17

  “‘A night at an inn’ is the only one that does not seem too poetical
  to be in prose. The ideality which is the basis demands, at least in
  part, a metrical form for the others. Prose belongs to realism.”

     + — =Ath= p412 Ag ‘17 250w

  “‘A night at an inn’ is the climax of terror in the collection, but
  for sheer beauty there is none of these plays to compare with the
  poetic charm of ‘The tents of the Arabs,’ which is one of the most
  beautiful things which Lord Dunsany has ever written.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 1250w

  “Reading these plays, one marvels at the simplicity of their action
  and wonders if Lord Dunsany will be able much longer to follow the
  vein that has proved so golden, with results so large and, it may be
  said, so monotonous.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:286 Ag 5 ‘17 160w

  “‘The laughter of the gods’ is written with the delicate satire
  characteristic of the author, and the subtle horror in ‘A night at an
  inn’ will, we think, make it difficult for the reader to put it aside
  until the last word has been read.”

       + =Spec= 119:222 S 1 ‘17 80w

  “We do not know that ‘A night at an inn’ has ever been acted in
  England, and we hardly like to say that we wish it could be, because
  to see it would inevitably mean a sleepless night to follow. Nothing
  since ‘The ghost stories of an antiquary’ has frightened us quite so
  uncannily. ‘The queen’s enemies’ is not among his best plays. The
  scene might be effective on the stage: in the book all seems too
  carefully arranged.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p343 Jl 19 ‘17 1450w


=DU PLESSIS, JOHANNES.= Thrice through the Dark continent. il *$4.50
(3c) Longmans 916 17-27663

  The author is a professor in the theological seminary of the Dutch
  Reformed church in Stellenbosch, South Africa. This “record of
  journeyings across Africa during the years 1913-1916” is largely an
  account of his travels between mission stations and of the work among
  the natives carried on by the various societies and institutions. Two
  journeys across Central Africa form the basis of the narrative. Among
  the chapters are: Kumasi and its heroes; Along the Gold coast; Ten
  days in South Kamerun; Travels in the two Nigerias; In the French
  sphere of influence; From the Shari to the Ubangi; In north Congoland;
  The Nile and its reservoirs; Through British East Africa; To the
  Mountains of the Moon. The book is fully illustrated and there is a
  folding map.

  “The author says little of politics or the war, but describes the
  country and the natives in a fresh and interesting way.”

       + =Spec= 119:529 N 10 ‘17 200w

  “He has, indeed, gathered into one volume a mass of information about
  very many missions which cannot be got elsewhere. He may be credited
  with a fair degree of impartiality, quite as much as any man of strong
  theological convictions can be expected to exercise. ... For the rest,
  he presents many details of African travel in wild regions which, if
  the type is not novel, are always full of variety and incident. In
  spite of a stilted pomposity of style which he is never able to
  abandon, Mr du Plessis reveals himself most engagingly in his pages as
  a ‘voortrekker’ of the real old sturdy Dutch stock.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p449 S 20 ‘17 1500w


=DURAND, WILLIAM FREDERICK.= Practical marine engineering for marine
engineers and students; with aids for applicants for marine engineers’
licenses; 4th ed., rev. and enl., by C: W. Dyson. il $6 Van Nostrand;
for sale by Marine engineering, 461 8th av., N.Y. 621.12

  “The first edition of this book was written by Prof. W. F. Durand. ...
  A second and then a third part were subsequently added. In the present
  edition Captain Dyson has combined the three independent parts into a
  consecutive whole, besides adding new material. The book is devoted
  mostly to marine engines and their many auxiliaries for driving ships
  and making them habitable. There are also chapters on engineering
  materials, fuels and computations for engineers.”—Engin News-Rec

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:153 Ap 19 ‘17 90w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:106 Jl ‘17

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:450 My ‘17 40w (Reprinted from International
         Marine Engineering p190 Ap ‘17)

  “Excellent book for the engineer or novice who may be preparing for
  examination for a marine engineer’s license. The treatment is as plain
  and non-mathematical as possible. The greatly increased interest in
  marine engineering renders this new edition of the best American
  practical book on the subject particularly timely.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ja ‘18 70w


=DURANT, WILLIAM JAMES.= Philosophy and the social problem. *$1.50 (2½c)
Macmillan 301 17-24304

  The author is an instructor in philosophy connected with Columbia
  university. “The purpose of this essay is to show: first, that the
  social problem has been the basic concern of many of the greater
  philosophers; second, that an approach to the social problem through
  philosophy is the first condition of even a moderately successful
  treatment of this problem; and third, that an approach to philosophy
  through the social problem is indispensable to the revitalization of
  philosophy. By ‘philosophy’ we shall understand a study of experience
  as a whole, or of a portion of experience in relation to the whole. By
  the ‘social problem’ we shall understand, simply and very broadly, the
  problem of reducing human misery by modifying social institutions.”
  (Introd.) In Part 1, “Historical approach,” Mr Durant considers
  Socrates, Plato, Bacon, Spinoza and Nietzsche in order to see what
  there is in their views on the social problem “that can help us to
  understand our own situation today.” Part 2 is entitled “Suggestions,”
  but the author states that he is “proposing no solutions.”

  Reviewed by C. E. Ayres

         =Am J Soc= 23:544 Ja ‘18 470w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:112 Ja ‘18

  “Accurate, concise and very disappointing book. The author writes with
  a crisp, effective style; he seems to possess a gift for summary. ...
  In this somewhat futile Socratic discussion the pros too accurately
  balance the cons; there is little left to go on with.” Archibald
  Henderson

     – + =Bookm= 46:277 N ‘17 230w

  “The author says things that need repeating, and he says them
  eloquently and earnestly. ... I fear, however, that his plan of
  campaign, if followed, would only get philosophy the reputation of
  being a gadding busy-body, meddling in everybody’s business, having
  none of her own.” M. C. Otto

     – + =Dial= 63:449 N 8 ‘17 1800w

  “Dr Durant has an earnestness of manner, a flowing vigor of expression
  and a skill in summary which makes his book readable even for the man
  who has never turned his attention to problems of philosophy.”

       + =Ind= 92:262 N 3 ‘17 100w

  “Dr Will Durant, though an instructor in philosophy, holds philosophy
  in very low esteem indeed—this being, in fact, one of the amusing
  phenomena that have sprung from the Deweyesque brand of pragmatism.”

       — =Nation= 105:490 N 1 ‘17 500w

  “Part 1 of Dr Durant’s volume is so well done that there cannot be but
  regret for its brevity. For a little space he has shown these masterly
  thinkers as kin to us, and, had he pursued this part of the work
  farther, he would have given us a most significant volume.”

       + =N Y Call= p14 N 11 ‘17 450w

  “The chief value of the book lies in its call to rescue philosophy
  from the calm death of social ineffectiveness. It is to be feared,
  however, that in order to make out his case, Mr Durant has in some
  instances made his philosophers a bit too modern. It is rather a
  strained interpretation, for example, to read into the Socratic
  ‘virtue of wisdom’ an endorsement of psychoanalysis.” H: Neumann

     + — =Survey= 39:445 Ja 19 ‘18 300w


=DURELL, A. J. V.= Principles and practice of the system of control over
parliamentary grants. *21s John Hogg, London 351.72

  “This work, by the chief paymaster at the War office, with a foreword
  by Sir Charles Harris, assistant financial secretary, War office,
  deals authoritatively with the important subject of the control of
  public expenditure. The main divisions of the book are concerned with
  the House of commons, the parliamentary standing committees, the
  comptroller and auditor-general, the treasury, and the accounting
  department. ... There are copious references throughout the book to
  parliamentary papers containing reports of the public accounts
  committee and estimates committee, and to authorities dealing with
  public finance and kindred matters.”—Ath

  “The author has presented the facts in such a manner that the volume
  is likely to become a standard work of reference upon the expenditure
  of public money.”

       + =Ath= p464 S ‘17 120w

  “The book opens with its only weak section—a sketch of the
  constitutional aspect of the financial system, derived from secondary
  authorities that are somewhat out of date. When Colonel Durell turns
  to review the present financial system he is clearly in his own
  element. With the detailed analysis in the last two chapters of the
  control exercised by the treasury and the function of the accounting
  department, nothing comparable has yet appeared publicly in print.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:209 S 15 ‘17 1500w

  “Colonel Durell sets out in detail the steps taken during the
  nineteenth century to secure effective machinery for parliamentary
  control.”

 *     + =Spec= 119:219 S 1 ‘17 930w


=DURET, THEODORE.= Whistler. il *$3.75 Lippincott 17-12506

  “Theodore Duret’s book on Whistler, which appeared a number of years
  ago in the original French edition, has been translated by Frank
  Rutter, and makes a welcome addition to the mass of literature that
  has been forming for the last thirty years about the salient figure of
  the American master. Duret knew Whistler well, and adds to his natural
  carefulness in statement the lively note of personal adventure. ...
  Duret brought to his task, however, more than the mere data of a
  conscientious reporter or the pleasant gossip of an acquaintance; he
  is initiated in the craftsmanship of which he writes, and is an
  appreciative critic of the painter’s achievement.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 13:436 Jl ‘17

  “The great merit of this biographical study is its terse and orderly
  presentation of the essentials and the omission of all those
  superfluities which so often obscure the really important features of
  a biography. ... The translation is accompanied by [32] capital
  reproductions of many of Whistler’s most important works.”

       + =Int Studio= 61:99 Ap ‘17 150w

       + =N Y Times= 22:95 Mr 18 ‘17 230w

  “Naturally M. Duret writes somewhat in the vein of a second at a duel.
  Whistler’s career was so much a progress of deliberate pugnacity that
  any record of it is inevitably one of blows, given and courted. As
  these encounters so often centred upon the artist’s work there is a
  certain piquancy in the opportunity of refreshing our individual
  judgments upon this, furnished by the many and wholly admirable
  reproductions with which the volume is illustrated.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:366 My ‘17 170w (Reprinted from English Review
         ‘17)

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:512 Je ‘17 50w

  “M. Duret, who was a lifelong friend, steers a mid-course between
  those who, like Mr Menpes, record with gusto every incident of
  mud-slinging and vanity, and the large and detailed volumes of Mr
  Pennell, in which everything is recorded and the hero can do no
  wrong.”

         =Spec= 118:391 Mr 31 ‘17 400w

  “As a sketch of Whistler’s chequered history, with its struggles,
  attacks, financial hardships, and final success, this book is fairly
  adequate, and certainly makes interesting reading. ... But those who
  wish to follow and understand Whistler’s technique in painting and
  etching, and to realize the amount of hard honest labour that underlay
  those performances of his that seem so slight and easy, will do well,
  when they read M. Duret, to turn back to the more precise volume of Mr
  and Mrs Pennell.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p77 F 15 ‘17 700w


=DURHAM, HARRY WILLIAM.= Saws: their care and treatment. il *$2.50 (4c)
Van Nostrand 621.93 A17-1554

  The object of this work is “to provide a reliable book of reference
  for those who are learning the art of saw fitting, or who may be
  interested in the proper methods of sharpening and keeping saws in
  order.” (Preface) The author states that he has found no modern work
  in English treating of the subject with the exception of certain trade
  publications. He has attempted to select the best methods from among
  the many he has observed in practice, but has been careful not to lay
  down hard and fast rules. Among the topics covered are: Particulars of
  reciprocating saws; Particulars of circular saws; Sharpening saws by
  hand filing; Saw-sharpening machines; Setting the teeth of saws; The
  saw-sharpening room.


=DWIGHT, HARRY GRISWOLD.= Persian miniatures. il *$3 (3c) Doubleday
915.5 17-26877

  A travel book by the author of “Stamboul nights” which touches lightly
  and whimsically the things of Persia that draw the traveler
  thither,—its cities, its structures, its scenery, its peoples and its
  indefinable oriental magic. “About rug books” is an interesting and
  encouraging chapter for those who think despairingly that the Persian
  rug is passing. The writer believes that there is no more danger of
  the Persian rug becoming a thing of the past than the oil painting. He
  says that under mud roofs, not available for the department store
  buyer, there are being woven carpets quite as good as came from the
  looms of Abbas the Great. “Social life in Hamadan, descriptions of
  home apparatus, humorous appreciation of personality, of every
  kindred, every tribe, sly Pepys-like analysis of high local and
  imported dignitaries, merry, human, homey stories of everyday life of
  foreigners in Persia, incidents of adventure and misadventure, make up
  most of this volume.” (Boston Transcript)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:91 D ‘17

  “An amazingly modern book of travel. No roses and nightingales, no
  bulbuls nor tropical scents and sounds, no humbug of any kind does Mr
  Dwight deceive us with in his descriptions of Iran. He does impart the
  beauty of the treeless land, he does make real and recognizable even
  for an unimaginative reader, the joy to be found in strange
  appearances of life, and in the different and admirable in
  architecture. The quality of the book cries in the market place to be
  imparted, to be shared, to be read aloud with a mutual enjoyer, even
  its last learned chapter on Avicenna.” M. C. S.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 14 ‘17 720w

  “The present volume has all the atmosphere of charm and oriental
  coloring that its title would lead one to expect. The intimate
  description of the author’s sojourn in a Persian town will go far
  toward making us familiar with an ancient and engaging people.”

       + =Lit D= 55:41 D 8 ‘17 130w

  “It would be a grave belittling, however, of a book that has in it
  much of valuable information, the fruit of careful research, to
  emphasize only its charm of style and its vividness of
  description. ... The author is blest with the ability to offer a great
  deal of information, nay more, to correct mistakes in less
  well-informed writings, without a trace of pedantry.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:20 Ja 20 ‘18 850w

  “Mr Dwight brings to his new work the ability to be graphic,
  whimsical, and always readable.”

       + =Outlook= 117:519 N 28 ‘17 40w


=DYER, WALTER ALDEN.= Creators of decorative styles. il *$3 (8½c)
Doubleday 749 17-28460

  A survey of the decorative periods in England from 1600 to 1800. It is
  the plan of the writer to consider the lives and personalities of the
  leaders of artistic thought in England, tracing, at the same time, the
  contemporary development of styles in the cognate arts. These leaders
  are: Inigo Jones; Daniel Marot; Sir Christopher Wren; Grinling
  Gibbons; Jean Tijou; Thomas Chippendale; Sir William Chambers; Robert
  Adam; Josiah Wedgwood; George Hepplewhite; and Thomas Sheraton.
  Illustrations reproduce many original pieces of furniture to be found
  in the Metropolitan museum of art.

  “The trouble with the book before us, so far as trouble exists, is
  that Mr Dyer has not succeeded altogether in a vital synthesis of his
  critical and biographical material. It is only fair to say that the
  data available on the personal side seems prevailingly very scant.
  Especially worth while are the chapters on Tijou, the little-known
  French master of ironwork, a domesticated English worker, and
  Wedgwood, the famed creator of designs in pottery.” R: Burton

     + — =Bookm= 46:479 D ‘17 320w

  “Mr Dyer, who has of late made a specialty of writing upon this
  attractive subject and who has undoubtedly done much in the formation
  of a revived taste for the beautiful has produced here a work of
  superior excellence. A large number of well executed illustrations
  adds to the value of the work.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 21 ‘17 500w

  “A thoro knowledge of just such facts as this book presents will go a
  long way towards giving to your house that ‘indefinable air’ of charm
  and culture and a still more desirable quality—restfulness.” Ruth
  Stanley-Brown

       + =Pub W= 92:1389 O 20 ‘17 330w


=DYER, WALTER ALDEN.= Five Babbitts at Bonnyacres. il *$1.30 (2c) Holt
17-25085

  A very up-to-date country-life story in which Farmers’ bulletins play
  an important part. It is written for young folks, but older people who
  are interested in farming and in rural problems will also enjoy it.
  The Babbitts are a city family who go back-to-the-land. The story
  carries them thru two years of their experiment on a Massachusetts
  farm, and leaves them satisfied and happy, and well started on the
  road to success. There are four Babbitts to begin with; the fifth
  member, who is added to the family later, is a young boy who comes to
  them as a state ward. His development under a more fortunate
  environment than he has before known is an interesting study.

  “The Babbitts never accomplish superhuman deeds on the soil; their
  crops are not abnormal. The story goes through two seasons, and there
  is a steady increase in results, due to the pluck and splendid spirit
  of the family.”

       + =Lit D= 55:54 D 8 ‘17 160w

  “Mr Dyer evidently means his story to be a practical handbook of how
  such a farm should be treated in order to make it a moderately paying
  investment. ... The fictional interest with which he has invested it
  by means of the Babbitt family makes it an entertaining yarn, for Mr
  Dyer writes always with charm and humor and sanity.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:401 O 14 ‘17 250w


=DYSON, G.= Grenade fighting. il *50c Doran 355 17-29564

  A small manual on the training and tactics of grenadiers. The author
  is late brigade grenadier officer of the British expeditionary force.
  Part 1 of the book gives Preliminary notes; Part 2, Notes on training
  and organisation. There are seven diagrams by way of illustration.




                                   E


=EARLE, RALPH.= Life at the U.S. naval academy; the making of the
American naval officer. il *$2 (4c) Putnam 355.07 17-10208

  The purpose of this book is “to explain the methods adopted at the
  United States naval academy at Annapolis, Maryland, to give the
  midshipmen of our navy a thorough theoretical and practical grounding
  in the knowledge of the many subjects that the naval profession
  demands.” (Preface) Contents: Historical sketch; The candidate; The
  new midshipman; Organization; Academic work; Examinations; Practical
  instruction and drills; Religion, discipline, morale; Physical
  training and medical care; Athletics; Recreation; The practice
  cruises; The postgraduate; Grounds and buildings; The ensign. Courses
  of study, etc. are outlined in appendixes. The author is head of the
  Department of ordnance and gunnery in the Naval academy, and the book
  has an introduction by Franklin D. Roosevelt, assistant secretary of
  the navy.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:375 Je ‘17

  “An interesting, graphic, and well-illustrated account.”

       + =Ath= p464 S ‘17 100w

  “Clear and accurate, but not calculated to arouse in boys an
  enthusiasm for this arm of the service.”

     + — =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 30w

  “The parent or guardian will be particularly impressed by Chapter 8,
  Religion—discipline—morals.”

       + =Nation= 105:294 S 13 ‘17 950w

       + =New Repub= 10:385 Ap 28 ‘17 150w

  “The prospective candidate for admission to the academy will find the
  volume of especial value.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:668 Je ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:139 My ‘17

  “The book describes the midshipman’s training in all its aspects and
  its value is heightened by appendices of special value to the
  prospective candidate for admission and an ample index.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 13 ‘17 300w

  “Particularly attractive are the author’s descriptions of the athletic
  life and recreations of the midshipmen, their games and sporting
  contests with other bodies. Another chapter which will be widely
  appreciated is that in which an outline is given of the midshipmen’s
  activities during the practice cruises which the upper classmen in the
  academy make annually.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p377 Ag 9 ‘17 500w


=EASSIE, R. M.= Odes to trifles, and other rhymes. *$1.25 Lane 811.08
17-30067

  A member of the Canadian expeditionary force makes some humorous
  observations among the grim happenings of war. He immortalizes the
  ration biscuit, satirizes the kultur that could so evilly betray its
  birthright by the “lachrymatory shell,” and eulogizes a pair of sheets
  but briefly enjoyed on short leave. There are nursery rhymes which
  parody Mother Goose and there are limericks. The book should not fail
  to be found in the camp libraries.

  “Let me say at once that these ‘Odes to trifles,’ are the very finest
  things of the sort this war has produced. This Mr Eassie of the
  Canadian expeditionary force is a humorist of the highest order, is an
  absolute artist in touching upon the inconsequential of a grim and
  agonizing piece of business—war.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 5 ‘17 280w

       + =R of Rs= 57:105 Ja ‘18 30w

  “Every stanza gets well home, written with a refreshing air of
  conviction and a real wit which scintillates the more sharply because
  not a word of it could be spared.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p371 Ag 2 ‘17 150w


=EAST, ANNA MERRITT.= Kitchenette cookery. il *$1 (7c) Little 641.5
17-14966

  Cooking in small quarters is the subject of this book. The first
  chapter considers the utilization of space and the planning of work in
  a small kitchen. Other problems of apartment house living—getting
  meals in a limited time, etc., are given attention. Recipes accompany
  many of the chapters. Contents: Fitting shelves to space and service;
  The pots, pans, and containers; The first bill of groceries; Counting
  costs; Breakfast on a time limit; Lunches at home and by box; Dinners
  for self and friends; High-pressure dinners; Experiments tried on
  friends; A bite to eat at bedtime; Half-a-can recipes.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:432 Jl ‘17

         =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 60w

         =Nation= 105:347 S 27 ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p25 O ‘17 10w

  “Business women who are loth to give up the privileges of housekeeping
  will find much helpful planning in this intensive study.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:554 N ‘17 40w

  “The volume is made the more fascinating by its attractive pictures of
  the two-room and kitchenette apartment, whose story it is telling.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 14 ‘17 160w


=EASTMAN, MAX.= Journalism versus art. il *$1 Knopf 814 17-26314

  “Four provocative essays republished from the Masses, Vanity Fair, the
  New Republic and the North American Review, respectively. The initial
  essay ‘Magazine art’ ‘reflects the feeling and in some places even the
  thought and language of the artists of the Masses in criticizing the
  art of the popular commercial magazine.’ Speaking thus for his
  associates Mr Eastman finds that the monotony of magazine
  illustration, and its subjection to the ideals of the business office
  combine to keep this work out of the realm of true art.”—Cleveland

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:341 My ‘17

         =Cleveland= p34 Mr ‘17 220w

  “Mr Eastman, as an editor, would never think of giving the public what
  it wants, and he sets himself here to show how journalism, which is
  only a very democratic and shaggy kind of literature, is corrupting
  our taste in letters and art.”

         =Dial= 62:108 F 8 ‘17 450w

  “The papers on magazine writing and lazy verse are but witty remark
  and schoolboyish platitude and superstition. The others, on magazine
  art and English spelling, over-expressive of radical opinion,
  under-expressive of what those opinions clearly mean and marred by a
  quite shameless preciosity of style and half-way philosophizing, are
  still healthily stimulating.”

     – + =Ind= 90:87 Ap 7 ‘17 50w

  “The only thing wrong with this new book by the editor of the Masses
  is the title. Magazine writing and illustrating is not popularly
  called journalism, and that is what a great part of the book is
  about. ... And, by the way, the book is liberally illustrated with
  some real pictures, most of them from the Masses.” C. M. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 F 4 ‘17 700w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:193 Mr ‘17

       + =Pratt= p6 O ‘17 30w

  “In his new book Mr Eastman plays the rôles of radical and
  conservative, or, as he calls them, ‘red’ and ‘white,’ with equal
  facility. The fact that he uses radical language to enforce
  conservative truths need not concern us overmuch, for every writer
  must be allowed some consideration for his normal or abnormal ‘squint’
  at life. At all events, Mr Eastman is conservative in most of the
  theories he advances, or restates in this book.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 6 ‘17 750w


=EASTMAN, REBECCA LANE (HOOPER) (MRS WILLIAM FRANKLIN EASTMAN).= Big
little person. il *$1.40 (1½c) Harper 17-24397

  Arathea Manning, beautiful but deaf, once rich but when the story
  opens comparatively poor, is a little woman with a big heart and an
  undaunted spirit, who lives with her mother in the artists’ colony,
  just off Third avenue, New York. There is a mystery about Marion
  Beemis, the friend who saves Arathea’s life on Fifth avenue, and who
  has plenty of money, but refuses to tell what her occupation is. Two
  mysterious men also figure in the story; the “Kantwearout man,” who
  writes newspaper advertisements for a living and letters to Arathea,
  whom he refuses to meet, for the joy of it; and Gerald Staples, “a
  dynamo for energy,” with “extraordinary eyes” of a “warm brown,” and
  hair that “looked as if splendid clean winds had always been blowing
  through it.” Staples is an inventor who cares nothing for money and
  does not know who his parents were. He loves Arathea, and so does
  Arthur Endicott, whose parents have “brought him up in the smartest
  society and given him more money than is good for anybody.” The story
  solves all the mysteries and leaves everybody happy in the end.

  “Fanciful, idealistic fairy-tale sort of a story with a very charming
  girl as heroine.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:95 D ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:340 N ‘17 40w

  “The author has a sprightly manner of writing which carries us through
  many situations which told less attractively would immediately
  proclaim their unreality.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 22 ‘17 300w

  “She is a brave and sweet-tempered heroine, while nearly all the other
  characters in the book are pleasant people, though, like the plot,
  they belong to fairy tales rather than to real life.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:388 O 7 ‘17 230w

  “The sentiment, if of a stereotyped order, is always appealing and is
  employed with restraint and in good taste.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 210w


=EATON, WALTER PRICHARD.= Green trails and upland pastures. il *$1.60
(2c) Doubleday 917.4 17-29641

  “To my mother whose hand first led me out among the flowers and whose
  plea was the first I heard in defense of the wild folk of the woods.”
  This is the dedication of a book that in turn leads the reader out
  among the flowers and into the haunts of wilderness inhabitants.
  Sympathy with nature’s every mood and the language to reproduce it
  delicately or grandly but always atmospherically—this is the secret of
  the alluring quality of the book. The illustrations are noteworthy,
  particularly those that catch and hold the spirit of King Frost.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:120 Ja ‘18

  “For those who love hills and fields and wood paths and all the
  delights of nature’s green trails, the book is a treasury of exquisite
  landscapes painted with words in place of the brush.” A. M. Chase

       + =Bookm= 46:336 N ‘17 350w

  “A nature-lover’s record of ‘Glacier park wild flowers,’ ‘Neighbors of
  the winter night,’ ‘Trees,’ ‘Bridges,’ ‘Old boats,’ etc., described in
  a way to make one see a series of pictures rather than share the
  author’s moods.”

       + =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 60w

  “Walter Prichard Eaton has written of the world out of doors with all
  the pictorial charm of a Thoreau.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:217 F ‘18 160w

  “The sympathetic tone of the book is well maintained in the colored
  illustrations of Walter King Stone.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 N 8 ‘17 530w


=EBENTHAL, HILDEGARDE.= Tragedy of a throne. il *$3.50 (4c) Funk
17-24316

  The author states in her foreword that she had written this life of
  Ludwig II of Bavaria “largely with the help of letters and manuscripts
  the authenticity of which is indisputable,” but she gives no list of
  authorities used, and there are no references in foot-notes. She tells
  us that “Ludwig’s association with Wagner will be related in these
  pages in its true light for perhaps the first time, as will many other
  episodes”; also that had Ludwig been allowed to do what he wished, “it
  is more than probable that Europe would have been spared the colossal
  disasters due to the ambition of that Prussia which he hated
  throughout his life, and whose victim he became.” There are
  photogravure portraits of Ludwig II, Richard Wagner, Empress Elizabeth
  of Austria and Prince Luitpold, regent of Bavaria.

  “The writer, who appears to be well conversant with the enigmatical
  reign of Ludwig II of Bavaria, is evidently a person of strong
  prejudices, one of which is directed against Wagner, and another
  favorably toward the King. ... That he was more unfortunate than
  blameworthy she makes quite apparent. ... But we do strongly suspect
  her judgment of Wagner. Her invective is too vehement to be quite
  impartial. He is pictured as a demon of almost unbelievable evil. ...
  Her book is written somewhat too sensationally for serious history.
  The result of her research and her speculations is interesting.” R. M.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 980w

  “Supreme value to the student of history. If the details revealed in
  this book be true, which it seems highly probable that they are, we
  are furnished with another proof of the thoroughness and the
  all-embracing character of the Prussian plans for world-dominion and
  of the menace that they held toward all forms of democracy, for that
  Ludwig, unbalanced and autocratic as all his tendencies were,
  represented the real feeling of his countrymen better than did the
  alien group that brought about his ruin seems fairly certain.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 S 29 ‘17 490w


=ECKLES, CLARENCE HENRY, and WARREN, GEORGE FREDERICK.= Dairy farming.
(Farm ser.) il *$1.10 Macmillan 637 16-25254

  This book discusses breeds of cattle, their selection, management,
  feeding and ailments; the dairy barn; milk and its products; systems
  of farming on dairy farms; methods of renting; cost of production;
  methods of marketing; etc. Mr Eckles is professor of dairy husbandry
  in the University of Missouri, and Mr Warren, professor of farm
  management in the New York State college of agriculture, Cornell
  university.

  “Good general, popular treatment from the economic point of view, and
  the only work to cover this particular field.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:381 Je ‘17

  “The modern farmer will find much that will interest him in this book,
  particularly in view of the changing conditions in our country at the
  present time. It is, however, chiefly as an aid to the teacher that
  this book is to be strongly recommended.”

       + =Nature= 99:383 Jl 12 ‘17 270w

  “A good text for high schools, written by authorities.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:154 My ‘17 9w


=EDDY, SHERWOOD.=[2] With our soldiers in France. il *$1 Assn. press
940.91 17-26978

  “This volume is the first book by an American dealing with the
  American army on the other side. Sherwood Eddy, its author, has just
  returned from France, where he made a survey of the battle front and
  ate, slept, worked, played, and marched with General Pershing’s troops
  in camp, on the road, and in the trenches. And he has written this
  work, fresh from his actual observations, to set before American
  readers the plain facts about what the conditions and surroundings of
  our army in France are and will be, what are the physical and moral
  dangers our men will have to face, and what is being done and planned
  to help them pass through the dangers, trials, and strains of the
  conflict with credit to themselves and to their country. Mr Eddy is
  connected in an important position with the field work of the Young
  men’s Christian association and before the war had made an extended
  tour for work among students in the Balkans, Russia, Turkey, and
  Germany.”—N Y Times

  “‘With our soldiers in France’ preaches a manly religion.”

       + =Ind= 93:72 Ja 12 ‘18 230w

  “Mr Eddy’s book is deeply interesting, for it bears the glowing touch
  of the actual and its message comes straight from trench and camp to
  home. It ought to have telling effect in bettering American support of
  the Young men’s Christian association.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:541 D 9 ‘17 580w

  “This is the best kind of book to give to the man who will soon be
  fighting. It will show him what he ought to avoid and it will offer
  him a welcome at the sign of the red triangle.” Frank Fitt

       + =Pub W= 93:222 Ja 19 ‘18 330w


=EDER, MONTAGUE DAVID.= War-shock; the psycho-neuroses in war psychology
and treatment. *$1.75 Blakiston 615.8 (Eng ed SG17-242)

  “Dr Eder has earned for himself the right to speak with authority in
  connection with war shock. For some time he was an officer in the
  Royal army medical corps, and was medical officer in charge of the
  psycho-neurological department at Malta. The material for this book is
  the first 100 consecutive cases of psycho-neurosis encountered.”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

         =Ath= p306 Je ‘17 120w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p239 My 17 ‘17 170w


Edith Cavell nurse from Massachusetts. il 60c (5c) Butterfield 940.91
17-14687

  As a result of a memorial meeting held in Boston, December 11, 1915, a
  fund was raised for the purpose of sending an “Edith Cavell nurse from
  Massachusetts” to serve with the British expeditionary force in
  France. The nurse sent, Miss Alice L. F. Fitzgerald, gives an account
  of her first year of service in the form of extracts from diary and
  letters. The remainder of the little book, about one half, is given up
  to an account of the imprisonment, trial, and death of Miss Cavell.

  “Will interest most readers, we fancy, less for Miss Fitzgerald’s
  record, interesting as it is, than for the vivid account of the
  imprisonment and the events following the imprisonment of Miss Cavell.
  There is a crisp brevity in this relation which reflects the ominous
  rapidity with which things moved from the moment when the English
  nurse was put to trial.”

       + =Nation= 105:610 N 29 ‘17 270w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:681 O ‘17 30w

         =Pratt= p40 O ‘17 30w

         =R of Rs= 55:669 Je ‘17 70w

         =St Louis= 15:314 S ‘17 10w


=EDWARDS, GEORGE WHARTON.= Vanished halls and cathedrals of France. il
*$6 (8c) Penn 914.4 17-30884

  “This American artist and tourist long familiar with the ravaged
  regions of northern France ... describes and pictures the now vanished
  glories of Reims, Noyon, Arras, Léon, Verdun, St Quentin, and many
  other towns and villages of which we have been hearing so much, and in
  so tragic a way, of late. The great tower of Senlis, old St Pierre of
  Noyon, Gerbeviller’s historic hall, and the keep of Coucy-le-Château
  are among the vanished splendors that live again under Mr Edwards’s
  pen and pencil. The volume is printed on specially made paper and
  richly bound.”—Lit D

         =Boston Transcript= p8 D 5 ‘17 630w

       + =Lit D= 55:41 D 8 ‘17 120w

       + =Nation= 105:612 N 29 ‘17 60w

  “This is a gift book to bring delight to the eyes—and an ache to the
  heart.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:2 Ja 6 ‘18 350w

  “We may well be thankful that an artist of Mr Edwards’s skill has
  preserved in this book the memories of happier days. Both for pictures
  and text the volume will prove a most welcome holiday gift to any
  lover of France.”

       + =Outlook= 117:520 N 28 ‘17 100w

       + =R of Rs= 57:219 F ‘18 70w


=EEKHOUD, GEORGES.= New Carthage (La nouvelle Carthage). *$1.50 (1½c)
Duffield 17-17971

  The “New Carthage” is Antwerp; Georges Eekhoud is a Flemish novelist,
  and this novel of his has been crowned by the Belgian Academy. The
  translation from the French is by Lloyd R. Morris, who also writes an
  introduction dealing with Eekhoud and his writings, and who says of
  him: “Like that other great Belgian artist, Constantin Meunier, he
  celebrates the modern beauty of labor and of the crowd.” “The novel is
  essentially a record of the life of the whole city. Its protagonist is
  Antwerp itself, or, more definitely, the proletariat of Antwerp as its
  life is experienced by Laurent Paridael. The novel is largely
  autobiographical; Laurent, like Eekhoud himself, is left an orphan at
  the age of eleven and committed to the care of a wealthy uncle, who,
  like Eekhoud’s uncle, is a manufacturer of candles.” (Introd.) “Here
  in this factory, Laurent saw the ugly side of ‘that prosperous
  industrialism’ of which his exquisite cousin Gina both knew and
  embodied only ‘the radiant and brilliant aspect.’ It was what he saw
  in this factory that placed Laurent forever on the side of the
  laborer. ... This sympathy with the proletariat and his passion for
  his cousin Gina were the two determining yet to a great extent
  contradictory factors in his career, uniting absolutely only at the
  very last, when they joined to bring about the vengeance and the
  tragedy with which the book ends.” (N Y Times)

  “Despite its formlessness and exaggeration it is largely redeemed by
  its tropically splendid word-pictures and its expression of the social
  philosophy of a section of the working class which before Eekhoud had
  been without a spokesman.”

     + — =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 90w

  “He has a great theme, and he knows his city through all its turbulent
  layers. But he does not fuse the life really into artistic form. One
  thinks of ‘Germinal,’ and one misses the power and deep reference and
  social orientation of Zola. One thinks of ‘Pillars of society’ and one
  misses the cold, cutting subtlety of Ibsen in his exposure of that
  greed of the capitalist which sweeps away all human consideration. And
  one thinks of ‘Pelle’ and misses the palpitating mass-life with its
  hunger, and its pathetic struggle against its masters and the
  elements.” Randolph Bourne

     – + =Dial= 63:343 O 11 ‘17 700w

  “The personal side of the story is told with a robust emotionalism
  that staid persons will find a bit intense and overpowering.”

     + — =Ind= 93:128 Ja 19 ‘18 280w

  “If the civilization it depicts was as represented, it is a blessing
  that it has ceased. Perhaps out of the holocaust of war will come a
  decenter existence. Nevertheless, we must wonder at the smug
  Anglo-Saxon prudishness of the translator, who has deleted certain
  passages because of their frankness. Perhaps the book as a whole
  should have been deleted.” Clement Wood

       — =N Y Call= p15 D 29 ‘17 400w

  “In this very capable translation we are given a novel of exceptional
  interest, the work of the man who stands at the very head and front of
  Belgian novelists. ... There is a certain robust quality, a certain
  careless and splendid prodigality, about this novel which reminds one
  just a little of Dickens and of the authors of that Elizabethan age of
  which M. Eekhoud has made an especial study. ... It is not, on the
  whole, a flattering picture which the author has drawn of his native
  city. Yet beneath all this turbulent life, beneath all the rioting and
  scheming and money-grabbing and ruthlessness and sensuality, one sees
  here and there something finer, something akin to the heroism and the
  loyalty we have learned to associate with the name of Belgium.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:285 Ag 5 ‘17 1550w


=EELLS, ELSIE SPICER (MRS B. G. EELLS).= Fairy tales from Brazil. il
*$1.25 (6c) Dodd 17-25892

  A publishers’ note says, “As wife of the superintendent of schools
  in Bahia, the author made a collection of Brazilian folk-lore tales
  as told by the children themselves during the story-hour at her
  boarding-school, and by the servants of her household. Many of these
  stories originated with the Indians of Brazil. A few are the
  Brazilian versions of stories from the Portuguese. Many others are
  African in descent and are much after the style of Uncle Remus.” The
  titles—How night came; How the rabbit lost his tail; How the tiger
  got his stripes; Why the lamb is meek, etc.,—show that we have here
  a familiar type of folk tale, but the point to the story in most
  cases is new and fresh. Some of them have appeared in Little Folks,
  Kindergarten-Primary Magazine and other papers, and they are well
  adapted to story telling purposes.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:172 F ‘18


=EGERTON, HUGH EDWARD.=[2] British foreign policy in Europe to the end
of the 19th century; a rough outline. *$2 Macmillan 327.4 17-30066

  “The object of the book is to show the motives and purposes which have
  guided British foreign policy and to do so as nearly as possible in
  the words of the men who have had most influence in shaping the
  policy. It contains therefore numerous extracts, especially from the
  speeches and letters of statesmen and diplomats in which they have
  urged or defended their ideas. ... It is a chronological index to the
  sources where will be found the best and most authoritative statements
  of intention and motive made by the men who determined events in this
  field. ... In the second place the object of the book is frankly a
  defense of British foreign policy. Professor Egerton is marshalling
  the evidence which shows ‘that the policy of the country on the whole
  has been singularly honest and straightforward.’”—Am Hist R

       + =Am Hist R= 23:429 Ja ‘18 580w

  “There are indications of haste in the compilation of the work, and
  the reader may sometimes desiderate a clearer discussion of the
  principles and issues at stake; but the book is useful for the proper
  understanding of the historical problem now in process of solution.”

     + — =Ath= p520 O ‘17 140w

  “The author has produced a readable, interesting, and useful work, but
  it is not likely to add to his fame as a historian. The book is to a
  large extent a compilation and gives evidence of somewhat hurried
  preparation, as is true of so many of the ‘timely’ books that have
  been published since 1914.”

     + — =Dial= 64:71 Ja 17 ‘18 600w

  “The method which he has adopted has gone far to spoil the interest in
  his story. He splits up his subject into sections, and constantly
  harks back chronologically.”

     + — =Spec= 119:270 S 15 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Egerton’s sketch of British policy derives a special value from
  his plan of using, as far as possible, the ‘ipsissima verba’ of
  statesmen, which gives it an authority it might otherwise seem to
  lack. The system of extensive quotation has its inevitable drawbacks;
  there are times when we feel that the uninstructed reader will not see
  the wood for the trees; and our general impression is that it will be
  found most useful and instructive by those who already have a fair
  knowledge of the outlines of European history. It fulfils its purpose,
  however, excellently well; its tone is impartial, moderate, and wise,
  and in our opinion it deserves a very wide public.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p483 O 11 ‘17 1700w


=ELBIQUET, pseud.= Supplementary magic. il *$1.25 Dutton 133

  “A handbook intended to follow the author’s ‘Textbook of magic,’ and
  postulating a familiarity with the rudiments of the art as explained
  in the earlier book. The ‘true secrets’ comprise five principal
  devices: Repetition, inspection, explanation, intentional errors and
  abstraction of the attention. ... The early pages are devoted to an
  explanation of the science of conjuring, and there follows a
  presentation of new or improved methods of performing sleights. Part 3
  is an entertaining discussion of Indian conjuring with a short study
  of the native conjurer’s methods and a selection from his favorite
  tricks. ‘A few tricks for all occasions’ are explained at the end. The
  book is amply illustrated.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Well written and fully illustrated. The most interesting chapters are
  devoted to the Indian conjurer.”

       + =Spec= 118:341 Mr 17 ‘17 120w

         =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 170w


=ELLIOT, HUGH SAMUEL ROGER.= Herbert Spencer. il *$2 (3c) Holt (Eng ed
17-26315)

  This volume in the Makers of the nineteenth century series is a
  biography of Spencer and a critique of his philosophy. “Whatever may
  be thought to-day of the value of Spencer’s writings, no one who
  wishes to understand the thought of the nineteenth century can neglect
  him,” says the general editor. The author treats his subject in the
  following chapters: Life; Character; Philosophy; Introduction to
  Spencer’s social writings; General summary of “The principles of
  sociology”; General summary of “The principles of ethics”; Metaphysics
  and religion; Evolution; Biology; Psychology; Education; Conclusion.

  “A sympathetic introduction, with indication of the main positions in
  the system, and with a plot of the traps that guard those positions,
  is the most serviceable addition that could be made to Spencerian
  literature. Mr Elliot has admirably satisfied these requirements.” A.
  W. Small

       + =Am Hist R= 23:157 O ‘17 1150w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:352 My ‘17

         =Ath= p203 Ap ‘17 90w

  “To obtain a clear idea of the Spencerian philosophy is not difficult
  for the reader who follows its course in the series of epitomes given
  by Mr Elliot. He has prepared a notable contribution to the history of
  English philosophy.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 F 10 ‘17 1350w

       + =Cleveland= p83 Je ‘17 40w

  “Mr Hugh Elliot has produced a notable work, notable as a biography,
  notable in its current appeal, notable in the perspective it
  establishes for viewing a remarkable intellectual career.” Joseph
  Jastrow

 *     + =Dial= 63:146 Ag 30 ‘17 2050w

  “There is included a helpful bibliography, a chronological table and
  an index. The frontispiece is from the Burgess portrait.”

         =Ind= 91:32 Jl 7 ‘17 200w

         =Lit D= 54:1076 Ap 14 ‘17 350w

  “The chapters on Spencer’s philosophy and works are as distinctly
  mediocre as the earlier chapters are extraordinary. The last mentioned
  are fit to rank high among the best efforts at the portrayal of
  personality, while the former are no more than a faithful résumé
  disfigured by incompetent and futile criticism.”

     + — =Nation= 104:578 My 10 ‘17 1200w

  “A vigorous and discriminating account of Herbert Spencer’s
  contributions to modern intellectual development.”

       + =Nature= 99:163 Ap 26 ‘17 320w

  “It is in the perspective of the nineteenth century that Mr Elliott
  has endeavored to set him. ... But he has not mastered the task that a
  book of this kind must attempt. All that he has to say of Spencer’s
  life and character he says with admirable vigor. ... It has, indeed,
  every claim to be considered the best account of its kind as yet in
  existence. But when Mr Elliott leaves the narrative and comes to a
  critical statement of doctrine, the volume is of a different
  calibre. ... His epitome of Spencer’s teaching is not full enough to
  be useful and too full to be brief. His criticisms rarely go to the
  root of the matter he discusses. ... One has the conviction that Mr
  Elliott grew tired of his subject in the second half of his book and
  simply wrote to finish a work to which he was pledged. ... And I
  should guess that when Mr Elliott drew up his bibliography he just
  cast a glance at his shelves and wrote down the titles that he saw
  there.” H. J. L.

 *   – + =New Repub= 11:224 Je 23 ‘17 1600w

  “Mr Elliot prefaces his examination of the details of Spencer’s
  scientific and sociological work with a brief and interesting study of
  the English thinker’s life and character. ... His book is thoroughly
  interesting as well as valuable, a study of importance from beginning
  to end.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:119 Ap 1 ‘17 1100w

         =Pratt= p48 O ‘17 20w

         =R of Rs= 55:667 Je ‘17 130w

  “The volume is a welcome and worthy addition to the extremely useful
  series ‘Makers of the nineteenth century,’ which is being published
  under the general editorship of Mr Basil Williams. Our readers will
  remember the earlier volumes: Sir E. Cook’s ‘Delane’ and Lord
  Charnwood’s ‘Abraham Lincoln.’”

       + =Spec= 118:614 Je 2 ‘17 1600w

  “This account of Spencer’s life and writings, while sound in judgment,
  is a vivid, unhackneyed study, so lucid and genially readable, that
  even the person who knows little about Spencer and cares less about
  his philosophy will find himself interested in both Spencer’s life and
  thought.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 11 ‘17 1350w

  “What Mr Elliot admires, and with justice—what his valuable study
  impressively reveals—is the heroic element in this independent lonely
  thinker, his steadfast adherence to the search of truth, his courage
  and faith, his love of liberty, his emancipation from all forms of
  authority.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p109 Mr 8 ‘17 1450w


=ELLIOTT, CHARLES BURKE.= Philippines; with prefatory note by Elihu
Root. 2v il *$9 Bobbs 991.4

                                                            v 1 17-25734
                                                            v 2 17-23950

  “The author of these two stout volumes ... was well fitted for his
  task. From a seat upon the Supreme bench of Minnesota he was
  transferred to that of the Philippines. Later he became a member of
  the governing body of the archipelago, the Philippine commission, and
  still later was secretary of commerce and police in the government of
  the islands. ... The two volumes discuss the two important phases of
  Philippine history. The first brings this history down through the
  military régime, and includes the record of the operations of the
  American fleet under Dewey and the capture of the archipelago and the
  occupation of the city of Manila by the American forces. The second
  volume takes up the narrative at the close of the military régime and
  continues to the end of the commission government.”—Boston Transcript

  Reviewed by C: H. Cunningham

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 12:129 F ‘18 1650w

  “Judge Elliott attempts no fine writing, he draws no thrilling picture
  of that early morning battle in Manila bay. Plain, unadorned facts are
  recorded, without ornamentation, or attempt at picture writing. He has
  drawn the material for his narrative, quite evidently, from official
  records and not from the popular accounts of the battle published in
  the newspapers of the day.” E. J. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 21 ‘17 1100w

  “The extent of the field covered in these two volumes is remarkable.
  The author’s statements of fact and estimates of character are
  measured and definite. Dr Elliott is fair to all parties. It is well
  that this definitive history has become available at the time when it
  may exercise a real influence upon the shaping of policy.”

       + =No Am= 206:954 D ‘17 950w

  “Judge Elliott’s work is a permanent contribution to the history of
  the United States.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:637 D ‘17 750w


=ELLIOTT, F. HAWS.= Trench fighting. il *$1.50 (7c) Houghton 355
17-31265

  The author, a captain of the British expeditionary force, covers his
  subject in the following chapters: History and preliminary
  entrenching; Styles of trenches and strong posts; Wire entanglements
  and obstructions; Organization of trench system for defence; Attack in
  trench warfare; Trench raids; Poison gas and liquid fire; Trench
  routine: standing orders for the trenches; Trench hygiene; Billeting
  and training of troops in rear of line; Syllabus of training; Morale.
  The diagrams are grouped at the end, and an appendix gives a list of
  officers’ equipment advised for France.

       + =R of Rs= 57:102 Ja ‘18 50w


=ELLIOTT, FRANCIS PERRY.= Lend me your name! il *$1.25 (3½c) Reilly & B.
17-16728

  “The hero is a young Englishman of title temporarily resident in New
  York. He is bored with his position and his manner of living;
  moreover, he harbors a wholesome fear of his strong-minded wife, who
  holds a tight rein over him however far he wanders from her. During an
  unsought visit to his bedroom by a famous burglar, the Englishman
  suggests a change of positions with the yeggman.” (Springf’d
  Republican) The rest of the book deals with the various amusing
  complications consequent upon the change.

  “If one is willing to abandon consideration of probability and
  improbability much enjoyment may be found in following these
  adventures of a noble gentleman in the guise of a burglar. ... The
  author has a knack of characterization and a very pleasant feeling for
  summer romance in the open.”

       + =Dial= 63:74 Jl 19 ‘17 100w

  “An amusing, if not exactly probable, little farce.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:258 Jl 8 ‘17 280w

  “All the characters, the situation, and its path of development are
  decidedly ‘stagey.’ ... The burglar is slangy and unconsciously
  humorous, the girl delightful, and the Englishman, while molded
  according to the stage type Britisher, is naive and likable.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 2 ‘17 280w


=ELLIOTT, LILIAN ELWYN.= Brazil today and tomorrow. il *$2.25 (2½c)
Macmillan 918.1 17-10576

  The author is literary editor of the Pan-American Magazine. This book,
  she says, “is the fruit of seven years’ travel in and study of Latin
  America, and two years’ special work on and in Brazil, where seventeen
  out of the twenty states were visited.” A survey of the history of
  Brazil is followed by a chapter of immense interest to the United
  States on Colonization in Brazil, dealing with the systematic method
  of inducing and regulating immigration and with the mixture of races.
  Other chapters take up Social conditions, Transportation, Industries,
  Currency, The world’s horticultural and medicinal debt to Brazil,
  Brazil’s exterior commerce. There are a number of illustrations,
  several maps, a glossary of Brazilian terms and an index.

  “Not a travel book, but one which will interest men about to establish
  or promote business in South America.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:397 Je ‘17

  “As a general account of the country—its geography, its history, its
  people, its industries, its commerce—it has much to commend it, but it
  very plainly has the common fault of over praise. The book is written
  to please.” G. B. Roorbach

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 73:233 S ‘17 100w

  Reviewed by T: Walsh

       + =Bookm= 45:319 My ‘17 250w

  “Its arrangement of material is admirable and a great deal of patient
  study and research is evident in its pages. There is also an ample
  consideration of the arts and letters of Brazil that will satisfy the
  student of these particulars.” T: Walsh

       + =Bookm= 46:607 Ja ‘18 130w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 12 ‘17 650w

  “The book is remarkable for its fairness and kindly tone.”

       + =Cath World= 105:824 S ‘17 200w

  “The author’s analysis of the results of colonization is particularly
  illuminating in view of the present crisis in the provinces of the
  south, where Teutonic influences predominate.”

       + =Dial= 63:278 S 27 ‘17 350w

  “The Brazilian point of view is given by much reference to native
  papers. Maps and excellent illustrations complete a valuable book.”

       + =Ind= 92:261 N 3 ‘17 70w

  “Miss Elliott has a notable faculty for presenting closely condensed
  material in modest space and at the same time making it
  interesting. ... Miss Elliott’s book will increase the growing
  interest in South America. It is copiously illustrated from
  photographs.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:101 Mr 25 ‘17 700w

       + =Outlook= 116:161 My 23 ‘17 120w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 1 ‘17 330w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:184 Je ‘17 70w


=ELLIS, HAVELOCK.= Essays in war-time. *$1.50 (2½c) Houghton 575 (Eng ed
17-13565)

  Mr Ellis calls these essays “further studies in the task of social
  hygiene.” Many of the subjects treated are those on which he has
  already written much and with which his name is chiefly associated,
  among them, War and eugenics; War and the birth-rate; Feminism and
  masculinism; The mental differences of men and women; The conquest of
  venereal disease; Eugenics and genius; Marriage and divorce; The
  meaning of the birth-rate; Civilisation and the birth-rate. In many
  but not all of these, the question of the effects of the war enters
  into the discussion.

  “Readers not familiar with Havelock Ellis’ writings, especially his
  ‘Task of social hygiene,’ will find this a stimulating, although a
  somewhat choppy volume. To others the book will neither add to nor
  detract from Mr Ellis’ reputation as a keen and constructive critic of
  modern social problems. ... The essay on Birth control is eminently
  sane and well considered, and is, together with the proposal for the
  nationalization of medical service, the real contribution of the
  book.” A. B. Wolfe

       + =Am Econ R= 7:426 Je ‘17 130w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:433 Jl ‘17

  Reviewed by F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 45:183 Ap ‘17 360w

  “The sheaf of essays is bound by a continuity of interest and a
  consistency of point of view which may be described as a scientific
  radicalism, challenging the established beliefs when these rest upon
  tradition rather than upon cogent argument and experience.”

       + =Dial= 62:191 Mr 8 ‘17 230w

  “The immediate urgency, as well as the profound intrinsic importance
  of the subjects of these ‘Essays’ should ensure them attention and
  discussion; and the writing is delightful in its subtlety and
  distinction, its wealth of suggestion and implication, and deep quiet
  humour. The three concluding articles on Birth-control and the
  close-packed little essay on ‘Marriage and divorce’ are particularly
  fine, in their characteristically unflinching and beautiful treatment
  of sexual subjects. ... The essays dealing with the war, though
  admirable in tone, are less clear and sure in touch than the rest.” F.
  W. S. Browne

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:406 Ap ‘17 200w

       + =N Y Call= p14 Mr 18 ‘17 300w

         =N Y Times= 22:46 F 11 ‘17 700w

  “German theories that war is a ‘biological necessity’ have been
  demolished before now and what Mr Ellis has to say on this subject is
  neither original nor fresh. It has, however, the much greater merit of
  being sound and may be read with profit in this country. ... On
  various questions of eugenics and sexual morality Mr Ellis has much to
  say. ... While his views are often debatable, his purpose is ethical
  and not unduly individualistic.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 9 ‘17 600w

  Reviewed by Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 38:288 Je 30 ‘17 850w

  “‘War and the birth-rate’ is a disappointing study. ... The essay
  throws no clear light upon the momentous question of fact. ... In the
  essays on ‘Civilisation,’ ‘The birth-rate’ and ‘Birth control,’ Mr
  Havelock Ellis expounds his militant Malthusianism. We will only say
  of them that they dwell too much on a few aspects of a many-sided
  subject.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p578 D 7 ‘16 850w


=ELLIS, OLIN O., and GAREY, ENOCH BARTON.= Plattsburg manual. il *$2
Century 355 17-10212

  A work designed as a handbook for federal training camps. The authors
  are two officers in the United States army who acted as instructors in
  the Plattsburg training camp in 1916. Contents: General advice;
  Physical exercise; School of the soldier; School of the squad; School
  of the company; Fire superiority; The service of security; Attack and
  defense; General principles of target practice; Practice march or
  “hike”; Officers’ reserve corps. In addition there is a supplement
  with six chapters for “advance work.” The book is fully illustrated
  and is indexed.

  “Simple directions, well illustrated.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:375 Je ‘17

  “For officers and men, and for all citizens who would see just what
  learning to be a soldier means.”

         =Ind= 90:127 Ap 14 ‘17 20w

  “Preparatory manuals are more or less alike, in this if in no other
  respect, that they all have as their aim one and the same result. The
  road to this result is shortened by the employment in this book of
  illustrations showing not only the right, but also the wrong, way of
  doing certain things. Many of the diagrams, too, will prove helpful,
  and the text is clear, direct, and simple.”

       + =Nation= 104:636 My 24 ‘17 300w

       + =N Y Br Lib News= 4:67 My ‘17 110w

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p14 Ap ‘17 160w

       + =N Y Times= 22:130 Ap 8 ‘17 190w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:276 Ap ‘17

  “One of the most timely publications of the spring. ... It is the most
  elementary and at the same time the most readable guide thru the
  intricate earlier stages of soldiering that we have seen. The 155
  illustrations, mostly from photographs, are an important feature.” R.
  L.

       + =Pub W= 91:1326 Ap 21 ‘17 150w

         =St Louis= 15:189 Je ‘17 20w

  “The work was written primarily as a textbook for army training camps,
  but its usefulness has increased manifold since it was written.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 16 ‘17 180w


=ELLMS, JOSEPH WILTON.= Water purification. il *$5 McGraw 628.1 17-13569

  “The book begins very logically with water in its relation to public
  health and comfort. Next, the various means of purification are
  discussed, and progress in filter construction—particularly, rapid
  sand filters—is described. The methods of storing and applying
  chemicals are treated, and there is a chapter on power-plant and
  miscellaneous equipment. The work also contains chapters relating to
  the cost of construction and operation of rapid sand filters, etc. ...
  In the appendix are twelve tables useful to operators of
  water-purification plants. ... A large part of the work is the result
  of the author’s own experience. The remainder consists of quotations
  from published articles, for which there are references, mostly
  American, at the end of each chapter. Much of the material is new, and
  the illustrations are modern. ... The use of the book would be greatly
  facilitated if the index were amplified.”—Engin News-Rec

  “The author’s twenty-five years’ experience, beginning in the
  laboratory of the Massachusetts State board of health and extending
  through many years at the Louisville and Cincinnati water-works and
  elsewhere, has qualified him for his well-performed task of writing a
  treatise on water purification. ... As a whole, the book impresses one
  with sincerity of purpose and reliability of data. It will be of
  invaluable assistance to the designer and operator of
  water-purification plants.”

 *     + =Engin News-Rec= 79:129 Jl 19 ‘17 500w

  “The arrangement of the descriptive matter in logical order, so that a
  clear idea may be had of each process as a whole as well as in its
  details, has been carried out very successfully, and the descriptions
  are full and clear without being profuse.”

       + =Municipal Journal= 42:805 Je 14 ‘17 380w

  “The reading references at the chapter endings are especially
  noteworthy.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p8 Jl ‘17 60w


=ELLWOOD, CHARLES ABRAM.= Introduction to social psychology. *$2 (2c)
Appleton 301 17-11579

  Society is defined by Professor Ellwood as “that form of collective
  life which is carried on by means of mental interaction.” It follows
  from this definition that the psychological element is fundamental in
  any study of social life. It is from this point of view that he
  approaches his subject in this book. Contents: Social psychology, its
  relations and methods; Organic evolution and social evolution; Human
  nature and human society; The nature of social unity [two chapters];
  The nature of social continuity; Social change under normal
  conditions; Social change under abnormal conditions; Instinct and
  intelligence in the social life; Imitation and suggestion in the
  social life; Sympathy and consciousness of kind in the social life;
  Social order; Social progress; The nature of society.

  “There is a catholicity about the author’s thinking that will be a
  wholesome corrective for one-sidedness in teacher or students; there
  is not only a willingness to see strength as well as weakness in
  divergent opinions but also a desire to gain the strength of each in
  some inclusive conception. The real limitation of the book for
  teaching purposes is its abstractness.” W. H. Heck

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:839 D ‘17 400w

  “These chapters [chapters 4-8] are easily the best part of the volume
  and furnish an excellent presentation of social psychology proper. The
  third division, the remaining chapters, seem more like appendixes
  explaining and amplifying certain topics of the volume, but in
  themselves they form no unity and do not carry forward to a conclusion
  the main argument of the work.” J. Q. Dealey

     + — =Am J Soc= 23:255 S ‘17 450w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:5 O ‘17

  “In a study of the forces which unite society, Professor Ellwood has
  not overlooked consciousness of kind, or imitation, or sympathy, or
  any of the factors which have been put forward by certain writers as
  alone able to account for the cohesion of social groups. In his system
  he has made a niche into which each one of these forces finds its
  place. It is this broad-minded treatment of the subject which makes
  this volume so well fitted for the needs of the student in the social
  sciences who wishes a broad outlook upon this field.” W: B. Bailey

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:770 N ‘17 270w

  “Throughout the author sanely holds that the intellect is the supreme
  instrument of adaptation in the social life; and as instruments the
  intellect and its ideas are the means by which social progress can be
  rationally planned.” Archibald Henderson

       + =Bookm= 46:276 N ‘17 250w

  “Thoroughly adequate when judged by classroom standards, the volume
  can hardly be said to be notable. Yet it is generally unfair to
  criticize textbooks by the standards of notable contributions.”

       + =Dial= 63:167 Ag 30 ‘17 250w

  “A simplification of Professor Ellwood’s Sociology in its
  psychological aspects.’”

         =Ind= 91:108 Jl 21 ‘17 60w

  “We can recall no other contemporary sociological work of the
  psychological order which makes a saner and clearer presentation of
  its case. The criticism here to be passed does not concern form or
  detail: it has to do with the general matter of leaning so heavily
  upon psychology. ... The pretensions of psychology, as here set forth
  or implied, make one think of the historian who claimed for history
  everything man had ever done on earth—astronomy, bacteriology, and all
  the rest.”

 *   + – =Nation= 106:68 Ja 17 ‘18 1200w

  “A competent and scientific, but rather dull book.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:sup20 N 17 ‘17 140w

  “It is written in a sedate, leisurely style, and luckily the author
  has not succumbed to the manner that has invaded even psychology of
  playing for the snappy phrase, the thrill of paradox.” F. M.

       + =N Y Call= p15 N 11 ‘17 280w

         =R of Rs= 56:440 O ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:320 S ‘17 10w

  “The book will repay careful reading. It is exact and careful of
  statement, and is in all ways a suggestive and constructive study of
  social psychology.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 31 ‘17 320w

  “Professor Ellwood’s book, however, will remain rather for the special
  student of psychology and sociology than for the general reader.” M.
  M. Davis, jr.

     + — =Survey= 39:272 D 1 ‘17 400w


=ELMER, MANUEL CONRAD.= Technique of social surveys. *$1 World co.,
Lawrence, Kan. 309.1 17-18991

  “This book devotes itself to two main questions: the kind of facts to
  be gathered in social surveys and the use to be made of them, the
  greater and more valuable part of the publication being devoted to the
  former. This includes discussions and questionnaires relating to a
  rather wide range of topics having to do with social welfare, the more
  important among them being population and vital statistics,
  educational agencies, recreation and amusement, industry and labor
  conditions, disease and health measures, housing, public utilities,
  transportation and storage, distribution of wealth, political
  organization, taxes, charities, courts, childcare, defectives,
  juvenile and adult crime, and religious activities.”—Survey

  “The author has made his book thoroughly practical and it will be of
  distinct usefulness to those for whom it was written.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:792 N ‘17 90w

  “While the book has the weakness of many others on the same subject,
  namely, its dwelling too briefly upon the purpose in and reasons for
  collecting the mass of facts called for, and of instructing too little
  in the interpretation and methods of using the facts, it nevertheless
  has suggestions for the surveyor and will be of use to individuals,
  clubs and other groups of citizens who wish, perhaps, not so much to
  make a survey as to become intelligent upon social conditions in their
  own community.” S. M. Harrison

     + — =Survey= 39:271 D 1 ‘17 320w


=ELY, RICHARD THEODORE,[2] and others.=[2] Foundations of national
prosperity. *$2 Macmillan 338 17-30136

  Four college professors, three of political economy, and one of
  geology, have collaborated in this work whose sub-title is “studies in
  the conservation of permanent national resources.” Part 1, by
  Professor Ely, deals with the more general aspects of the subject,
  bringing it particularly into relation to economic theory, and
  terminating with a consideration of conservation policies. In part 2
  Prof. Ralph H. Hess discusses the relation of conservation to economic
  evolution and shows that each stage in economic evolution must have
  its own conservation policies. Part 3, by Prof. Charles K. Leith,
  deals with minerals which present peculiar problems in conservation.
  Part 4, contributed by Prof. Thomas Nixon Carver, deals with the human
  resources, for which natural resources exist.

  “In part 4, Professor Carver approaches the subject from several new
  and unexpected angles.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:220 F ‘18 170w

  “Prof. Carver has produced a clean and vigorous chapter, as has Prof.
  Leith. Their hard facts are balanced by the progressive theorizing of
  Prof. Ely and Prof. Hess. One cannot but feel that it would be more
  valuable as a treatise had its scope been confined to conservation in
  the directly material sense in which we use the term when we speak of
  conservation of natural resources.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 28 ‘18 530w


=ELY, RICHARD THEODORE, and others.= Outlines of economics. 3d rev ed
*$2.10 Macmillan 330 16-19484

  “The third edition of Professor Ely’s much used text is now available.
  The past eight years have been fruitful of changes in economic thought
  and in economic activity. It was to take account of these that the
  present revision was undertaken. This has involved the rewriting of
  many parts of the work. The discussion of underlying principles has
  been expanded; two chapters—on Business organization and on Economic
  activities of municipalities—have been omitted as such; one on Labor
  legislation has been added, and the sequence of others has been
  altered. All of these changes make for greater unity of treatment in a
  work that already showed distinctively serviceable qualities.”—Ann Am
  Acad

  “The meager index of the second edition is very much enlarged and
  correspondingly more helpful. The ‘references’ appended to chapters
  have been revised and account taken of recent literature. But the
  lists of questions are often unchanged or are shortened. ... Final
  conclusions from reviewing this book are that the text while
  maintaining its identity has yet grown not in size only but in
  character and maturity; that it has been successful in including a
  vast amount of new material, in taking account of recent developments,
  and in thoroughly revising all sections. If not up to date today, it
  is as near being so as we can expect in these days of rapid
  development. Criticisms are due to the inclusion of controversial
  matter; to the attempt to be all inclusive; to a strain of
  revolutionary philosophy; and to the fact that the text is written
  from the standpoint of the subject and of scholarship rather than with
  an eye single to the student and the class-room.” C: E. Persons

 *     + =Am Econ R= 7:98 Mr ‘17 2050w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:273 Mr ‘17

       + =Ann Am Acad= 70:326 Mr ‘17 90w

       + =Nation= 104:556 My 3 ‘17 270w

  “It differs from the older editions in that its scope is much wider,
  and it includes, in addition to the theoretical considerations, a
  great deal of what goes under the name of applied economics. In this
  it resembles Professor Taussig’s work on the same subject published a
  few years ago. Both books mark the departure from the old college
  textbooks in economics, which dealt exclusively with theoretical
  considerations of the problems of production, distribution and
  exchange. ... The volume is well arranged for teaching purposes.” A.
  L. Trachtenberg

       + =N Y Call= p14 Mr 4 ‘17 600w

  “It is a sign of the times when such a standard and authoritative book
  as this requires such revision for its third edition that it was not
  possible to use the old type.”

       + =N Y Times= 21:488 N 12 ‘16 130w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 7 ‘17 160w


=EMBURY, AYMAR.= Livable house—its plan and design. il *$2.50 Moffat
728.6 17-14400

  “The book contains 100 photographs of different types of houses,
  together with many detail drawings of interior plans of the same,
  which demonstrate, as they are intended to do, that a high standard of
  architectural merit is possible in a small house when good taste and
  good judgment prevail.”—Springf’d Republican

  “An interesting and suggestive ‘first book.’”

       + =Cleveland= p97 Jl ‘17 50w

  “The book is both attractive and suggestive.”

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 80w

  “Since the cost of building material and labor have advanced by leaps
  during the past year and a half, Mr Embury’s statements of cost prices
  require revision.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 350w


=EMERSON, EDWARD WALDO.= Henry Thoreau as remembered by a young friend.
il *$1.25 (6½c) Houghton 17-19701

  The author is a son of Ralph Waldo Emerson. Thoreau had the run of the
  Emerson house, and was to the children “the best kind of an older
  brother.” Twenty-seven years ago, Dr Emerson tells us, he was moved to
  write a lecture on Thoreau, because of “the want of knowledge and
  understanding, not only of his character, but of the events of his
  life,” and of “the false impressions given by accredited writers who
  really knew him hardly at all.” Lowell’s essay on Thoreau is mentioned
  as “having unhappily prejudiced many persons.” This book is the
  outgrowth of that early lecture, and is based, not only on Dr
  Emerson’s own youthful recollections, but on the recollections of the
  Concord people whom he, as a physician, has had the opportunity to
  know.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:57 N ‘17

  “Of Thoreau’s experience as a teacher, of his work in the
  pencil-making industry founded by his father, of his life in Concord
  and acquaintance with its people of greater and less celebrity and of
  no celebrity at all, we learn much in Dr Emerson’s few and
  unpretentious pages. ... They solve many puzzles about his life, his
  doings and his character.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 1350w

  “These illuminating glimpses of a strongly marked and splendidly
  independent but too often misunderstood personality are a welcome
  addition to the rather meagre literary product called forth by the
  Thoreau centennial. In this little book Thoreau the idealist stands
  justified for his refusal to devote the best years of his life to
  pencil-making and money-getting.”

       + =Dial= 63:401 O 25 ‘17 200w

  “In these few pages we see the author of ‘Walden’ at his best and, we
  feel convinced, as he really was.”

       + =Ind= 91:476 S 22 ‘17 100w

  “It is a long way from the stoical Thoreau of Emerson’s ‘Memoir’ to
  the ‘simple, gentle, friendly, and amusing’ Thoreau of his son’s
  ‘Henry Thoreau as remembered by a young friend.’ ... If the point of
  view is slightly distorted, at least there is compensation in the
  really winning personality that rises into life as we read these
  pages.”

     + — =Nation= 105:205 Ag 23 ‘17 300w

  “A rather muddled sketch of Thoreau’s life, with a wealth of
  significant incidents that throw a more human halo about that rich
  personality.” Max Lustig

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Ag 26 ‘17 320w

       + =Outlook= 116:626 Ag 22 ‘17 80w

  “Dr Emerson succeeds in demolishing common misconceptions of Thoreau
  as an idler, misanthropist, and rather inconsistent fanatic ... and
  demonstrates that he deserved the pretty general love and respect of
  the Old Concord with which this little book credits him.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 AS 16 ‘17 430w


=EMERTON, EPHRAIM.= Beginnings of modern Europe (1250-1450). maps $1.80
(1c) Ginn 940.4 17-25735

  The period which is the subject of study in this volume is the
  transition period between the time when Europe was committed to
  feudalism and the Roman church, and that of the modern Europe of
  independent national states and religious toleration. The thread of
  the narrative aims to be the working out, consciously in literature
  and unconsciously thru social and political conflict, of the idea that
  individuals or bodies of men voluntarily united in a common interest
  might, if they pleased, speak and act for themselves. Slight emphasis
  is put upon theological aspects, political, social and intellectual
  movements being the main consideration. Contents: The principle of the
  modern state; The new empire; The new papacy; The rise of a middle
  class; The Italian republics to 1300; The Hundred years’ war; The age
  of the councils; The age of the despots in Italy; The renaissance in
  Italy; The northern renaissance.

         =Boston Transcript= p8 N 21 ‘17 210w

  “Nothing but praise can be said of this most admirable treatment of
  European history. Professor Emerton avoids the bizarre which is so
  tempting to some of the popular writers on medieval history and
  institutions, and he will be found a safe and sound guide thru a
  fascinating field.”

       + =Educ R= 54:529 D ‘17 70w

  “If one is looking for a masterly treatment of the transition from
  mediaeval to modern times, such will be found in this book. His method
  involves a certain amount of repetition, which, by the way, is
  beneficial rather than detrimental in this case by showing the close
  interrelation of the historical movements considered. The book
  contains a number of valuable colored maps.”

       + =School R= 26:69 Ja ‘18 380w


=EMPEY, ARTHUR GUY.= “Over the top.” il *$1.50 (2c) Putnam 940.91
17-15575

  An account of trench warfare “somewhere in France” by an American who
  served for a year and a half in the British army as bomber, machine
  gunner, etc., until he fell wounded and after four months in the
  American women’s war hospital in England, was discharged as physically
  unfit for further war service. Empey says: “I have tried to tell my
  experiences in the language of Tommy sitting on the fire step of a
  front-line trench on the Western Front—just as he would tell his mate
  next him what was happening at a different part of the line.” “Tommy’s
  dictionary of the trenches” (unofficial) fills the last thirty-five
  pages.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:19 O ‘17

  “Through it all there breathes the spirit of buoyancy and optimism
  that is characteristically American. It is all an unconscious piece of
  quite wonderful writing.”

       + =Cath World= 106:258 N ‘17 330w

       + =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 70w

  “For once the publisher’s urgent description does not exaggerate; for
  in this unpretentious volume is caught at last the soul of Tommy
  Atkins.”

       + =Dial= 63:114 Ag 16 ‘17 480w

  “One of the very best soldier books of the war.”

       + =Ind= 91:184 Ag 4 ‘17 400w

       + =Lit D= 55:41 D 8 ‘17 190w

  “There have been several such books, but this is different from them
  all and one feels that for the average fighting man, it is truer than
  the others. ... In no other book that has come from the front has
  there been so much of soldier humor. ... Prospective soldiers can
  learn here pretty nearly just what is awaiting them, in both incident
  and sensation.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:239 Je 24 ‘17 1000w

  “Many of our readers must have heard Captain Empey tell his war
  experiences from the platform. He writes exactly as he talks—clearly,
  incisively, in the language of the trenches.”

       + =Outlook= 116:489 Jl 25 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:681 O ‘17 10w

         =Pratt= p39 O ‘17 10w

  “Few personal records of service have given us so much genuine
  pleasure as this one—whether for the overflowing cheeriness and the
  simple intimacy and the keen humour of its style, or for the real
  feeling which beats all through it.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p639 D 20 ‘17 270w


Empire and the future. *75c Macmillan 325.3 17-15171

  “A slim volume containing a series of lectures delivered in the
  University of London, King’s college. Mr Steel-Maitland contributes an
  introduction. Dr M. E. Sadler deals with ‘The universities and the
  war.’ Sir Charles Lucas treats of ‘Empire and democracy.’ The Master
  of Balliol discourses on ‘The people and the duties of empire.’
  ‘Imperial administration’ is in the capable hands of Dr H. A. L.
  Fisher. Mr Philip Kerr is on his own ground, dealing with
  ‘Commonwealth and empire.’ The volume is fittingly closed by Mr G. R.
  Parkin’s address on ‘The duty of the empire to the world.’”—Ath

  “There is no single work we would more strongly recommend to those
  interested in the future of the British commonwealth than this little
  volume. Indeed, we regard it as an excellent introduction to the study
  of the problems of imperial reconstruction. It contains no
  cut-and-dried schemes; its value lies rather in providing a background
  for schemes of reconstruction.”

       + =Ath= p88 F ‘17 700w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:39 Mr ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:314 S ‘17 10w

  “From one important standpoint it is a book to be welcomed: it comes
  from men who are profoundly in earnest, and who wish to grow into the
  needs of a most difficult new time. Their desire is to educate
  themselves, as well as to help those who know less than they do. On
  the other hand, they do not yet know how to coax great subjects
  through the prejudices of uneducated middle-age. ... It is a book for
  political clubs and for university students. The subjects chosen are
  too widespread to be generally useful at the present moment.”

     + — =Sat R= 122:509 N 25 ‘16 1350w

  Reviewed by the Earl of Cromer

       + =Spec= 117:656 N 25 ‘16 1600w

  “These lectures are anything but academic. Throughout they are the
  live words of men who speak of great things to listeners as keenly
  interested as themselves.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p543 N 16 ‘16 1000w


Empty house. il *$1.40 (2½c) Macmillan 17-17515

  “The theme of this novel is the need of sex-fulfilment for the
  American wife, through motherhood. The wife in evidence, who is her
  own witness and judge, has grown up, under the example of her own
  mother’s fate, in the fear of maternity. She dreads marriage for what
  it threatens, and will not marry until it is understood that she is to
  have no children. Between herself and her young husband exists a
  possible basis of friendship as well as that passionate relation which
  is to go through the inevitable phases. ‘The need of a world of men’
  asserts itself for the husband: the wife is left to her own resources,
  her clothes, her bridge, her idle-restless occupations of the
  servanted and childless city-woman. Her husband remains her
  preoccupation, while his work more and more absorbs him. In her will
  to possess him, she begins to prey upon him; in the end, by her
  exactions and by her secret and disastrous interference with his
  career, she brings about his ruin and his death. And it is all
  traceable to that ‘over-sexed’ condition of the American woman which,
  according to the German scientist of the story, condemns her, in
  default of motherhood, to destroy her mate.”—Nation

  “These people have the breath of life in them, are real as the action
  is real, however slightly both may be outlined.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:96 S ‘17 540w

  “With her abstract theories of married life the writer of ‘The empty
  house’ gives us all food for discussion. But like many novels with a
  purpose it is totally one-sided. ... Were we to surmise concerning the
  writer of this novel we might say that she is herself unmarried. The
  days of her childhood are described convincingly, but the
  post-matrimonial discussions lack conviction and sincerity.” D. F. G.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 490w

  “It is a vivacious story with an air of determination to speak out
  and tell the truth. What it tells is interesting. But after all it
  does not tell very much. The manner is sometimes irritating, if the
  reader is over-sensitive to literary manner. In trying to sound
  human and natural the author makes an unnecessary sacrifice of
  sentence-construction.” J: Macy

     + — =Dial= 63:113 Ag 16 ‘17 120w

  “A special plea, if you like, but vigorously embodied in a tale well
  told.”

       + =Nation= 105:247 S 6 ‘17 310w

  “We are almost tempted to say that it is many years since we have read
  anything so trivial published by a reputable house. ... The style is
  scrappy and lacking entirely in any literary qualities.” M. G. S.

       — =N Y Call= p14 S 2 ‘17 250w

  “Notwithstanding the irritating style and the wearying repetitions,
  the author contrives to put a good deal of emotional suspense and some
  dramatic situations into the story. But it really wasn’t necessary,
  for the convincingness of the tale, to make the teller of it seem
  quite such an uncurbed fool.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:265 Jl 15 ‘17 730w

  “An incisive yet moving study of feminine tendencies—some limited and
  morbid, others general and human. There is bitterness in the
  exposition of one type of American women, described by a foreign
  scientific observer.”

         =Outlook= 116:556 Ag 8 ‘17 70w


=ENDELL, FRITZ AUGUST GOTTFRIED.= Old tavern signs; an excursion in the
history of hospitality. il *$5 Houghton 394 16-24700

  “Mr Endell confesses in his ‘Old tavern signs’ that his love of the
  subject is his only apology for his bold undertaking of writing about
  it. First it was the filigree quality and the beauty of the delicate
  tracery of the wrought-iron signs in the picturesque villages of
  southern Germany that attracted his attention; then their deep,
  symbolic significance exerted its influence more and more over his
  mind, and tempted him at last to follow their history back until he
  could discover its multifarious relations to the thought and feeling
  of earlier generations. ... Poetical and political signs are treated
  at length, and the English sign and its peculiarities are fully
  described. Not the least interesting part of the book are the
  pictures, some of them copies of old prints. The author has added a
  bibliography and index to make his work complete.”—Boston Transcript

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 27 ‘16 700w

  “A notable book of a rather unusual kind, ... which the author himself
  lavishly illustrated with drawings of much quaintness and charm. ...
  The edition is limited to 550 copies.”

       + =Dial= 61:544 D 14 ‘16 130w

  “If it were not for the date in the imprint and a few scattered
  allusions, one would almost swear that this book had been composed in
  the eighteenth century. It seems to be pervaded by the kindly,
  unworldly sentiment of the vanished Germany of little states, such as
  Thackeray hardly caricatured in Pumpernickel, and Stevenson made the
  scene of Prince Otto’s adventures. Over all is the atmosphere one
  feels in the illustrations to Hans Andersen. Nowhere is the modern,
  scientific spirit.”

       + =Nation= 104:372 Mr 29 ‘17 550w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:15 Ja ‘17

  “A book at once erudite and whimsical, entertaining in its style and
  illuminating in its account of the social life of former times.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:131 F ‘17 30w


=ERASMUS, DESIDERIUS.= Complaint of peace. *50c (2½c) Open ct. 172.4
17-14169

  “This translation of the ‘Querela pacis’ of Erasmus is reprinted from
  a rare old English version. It is probably the 1802 reprint of the
  translation made by T. Paynell but published anonymously.”
  (Publishers’ preface) Erasmus, even in the sixteenth century, pictures
  Peace as seeking a refuge in vain with the common people, with kings,
  with scholars and with the religious. He dwells upon the
  incompatibility of war with Christianity, and argues that “there is
  scarcely any peace so unjust, but it is preferable, upon the whole, to
  the justest war,” but states that he is to be understood as speaking
  of the unjustifiable wars that Christians wage with Christians, and
  not of the purely defensive wars necessary to repel the violence of
  invaders.

  “The essay is noteworthy as an appealing presentation of the arguments
  for peace.”

       + =Ath= p589 N ‘17 200w

  “Every argument that has been advanced by the lovers of peace against
  militarism and its attendant horrors is cogently stated in this quaint
  document.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:331 S ‘17 100w

  “This translation is welcome for other things than its abstract
  wisdom. It is welcome for its gentle irony and for the modulated
  richness of the English. The book would be admirable for reading in
  the schools.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 6 ‘17 1100w

  “What Erasmus has to say is still not only readable, but worth
  reading. War is the most disastrous of human crimes and follies, and
  anything that helps us to understand that is good and useful. Provided
  that we also understand—what Erasmus only shows for one moment a
  glimpse of understanding—that it may be the most urgent of human
  duties.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p448 S 20 ‘17 1550w


=ERICHSEN, ERICH.= Forced to fight; the tale of a Schleswig Dane. *$1.25
(3c) McBride 940.91 (Eng ed 17-15580)

  The author tells this story as it was told him by a young soldier
  returned from the war. “He told me,” says the author, “sometimes
  calmly and sometimes with excitement, about all those experiences that
  had whitened his hair and worn out his body, and made him an old man,
  though he had not yet completed his twenty-seventh year. I am telling
  his story as he told it to me. The words are mine but all that gives
  life to them, the moods and thoughts, the hopes and sufferings, the
  abasement of the soul and the horror of the mind—all these are his.”
  It is the terrible story of one who endured all of the horrors of war
  without any of the sustainment of a conviction of right. After the
  invasion of Belgium, in which he took part, the narrator was
  transferred to East Prussia, a region similarly devastated. The book
  is translated from the Danish by Ingeborg Lund.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:19 O ‘17

         =Pratt= p40 O ‘17 40w


=ERVINE, ST JOHN GREER.= Changing winds. *$1.60 (1c) Macmillan 17-9813

  The mettle of the young men who are giving their lives in this war and
  the irretrievable loss suffered by any nation that goes to war are
  brought home by this novel. It is the story of four boys, friends from
  schooldays. It is a story filled with the joy and eagerness and tragic
  seriousness of youth, with its big ambitions and easy achievements and
  its plans for the reformation of the world. War does not enter into
  these plans. The war is something that happens; but it cuts across
  every other claim and takes the four, one after the other. The war is
  a calamity that breaks suddenly, but the Irish revolution which also
  enters into the story, gives warnings of its approach. There is hardly
  a phase of the complicated Irish problem that is not touched on in the
  course of the novel. Henry Quinn, one of the four, is Irish and it is
  to him that events are most closely related, but the most vital
  personality in the group is Gilbert Farlow, killed in Gallipoli. The
  book is dedicated to the memory of Rupert Brooke.

  “One of the women and the sex interest she arouses will be disapproved
  of by some readers, though few such would read the book.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:449 Jl ‘17

  “The character-drawing throughout is of a high standard, but the chief
  interest of the book lies in the discussions between the quartet of
  young men, which range over nearly all the questions of the day. ...
  the position of labour, the war, Irish affairs, including the
  rebellion, etc. ... The book will appeal mostly to the
  unsophisticated.”

     + — =Ath= p253 My ‘17 210w

  “A story of uncommon range and power.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:411 Je ‘17 670w

  “Despite Mr Ervine’s chaotic methods, despite his annoying habit of
  playing havoc with the passing of time, despite his rapid shifting
  backward and forward through the years and his consequent
  chronological disorder, despite the wordiness and trivial episodes in
  a story that for its full effect should be brisk and compact, he has
  written in ‘Changing winds’ a novel that demands attention and that is
  certain to arouse discussion. We do not regret its length and we do
  not hasten towards its end. ... Anyone who has read ‘Mr Britling sees
  it through’ will be eager for another view of the English attitude as
  reflected in Mr Ervine’s agile mind.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 11 ‘17 1400w

  “A monument of industry rather than talent. ... ‘Changing winds’
  suggests the book of a writer who has attempted to immerse himself in
  his subject, but has not absorbed its implications. It is the work of
  a man who does not quite feel the life he portrays.”

       — =Dial= 62:443 My 17 ‘17 180w

       + =Ind= 91:183 Ag 4 ‘17 200w

  “An interpretation full of insight, and rich in human sympathy.”

       + =Nation= 104:601 My 17 ‘17 570w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 105:600 N 29 ‘17 130w

  “So far, then, as Mr Ervine has allowed his discipleship to H. G.
  Wells to lead him into discussing universal military service, factory
  organization, machine industry, etc., he has been badly bamboozled.
  You have to be a Meredith or at any rate a Wells to overflow into
  these =creative fictional discussions=, and where Mr Ervine has
  attempted this he is tin painted to look like steel. ... The
  utilization of contemporary personages and contemporary events gives
  ‘Changing winds’ an excitingness that has a sort of suggestion of
  genius. There are certain tricks about the book, however, that impair
  this impression. ... Though not written in the first person, ‘Changing
  winds’ is hot from =first-hand= experience, an empiric version of
  reality.” F. H.

 *   + – =New Repub= 10:326 Ap 14 ‘17 2100w

  “Mr Ervine’s new book is by all odds the biggest piece of work he has
  done.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:113 Ap 1 ‘17 550w

  “The author has one pervading purpose, namely, to make his readers see
  Ireland and Irishmen as they are. ... The picture of the recent Irish
  revolution included in the story is admirably done, and is both
  touching and dramatic.”

       + =Outlook= 115:710 Ap 18 ‘17 140w

  “The title was taken from the sonnet, ‘The dead,’ by Rupert Brooke, to
  whom the author has dedicated the story.” M. A. S.

         =St Louis= 15:184 Je ‘17 20w

  “‘Changing winds’ may perhaps be not unfairly described as a set of
  variations on the theme of Mr St John Ervine’s book, ‘Sir Edward
  Carson and the Ulster movement,’ in which there was very little about
  Sir Edward Carson but a great deal about Ulstermen, young and old. ...
  The pictures of life in London are enlivened by some caustic
  portraits, under thin disguises, of well-known figures in the world of
  letters.”

       + =Spec= 118:567 My 19 ‘17 530w

  “The most interesting modern Irish novel that we can remember. ... The
  Londoner and the Dubliner, particularly the former, will have no
  difficulty in recognizing numerous real people in the thinnest
  disguises, many of them hit off with amusing malice. ... The book is
  all youth and enthusiasm, and it is written by a man who obviously
  loves Ireland and loves England too. That is what makes it so good a
  presentation of the issue between the two countries.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p187 Ap 19 ‘17 600w


=ESENWEIN, JOSEPH BERG.= Writing for the magazines. *$1.50 Home
correspondence school 808 16-26010

  “The Writer’s library already contains books on short story writing,
  photo play writing, writing for vaudeville, verse writing and play
  writing. Its manifest object is the compiling of a series of helpful
  and practical textbooks which shall answer the numerous questions
  which writers want to ask and which no one has time to answer for
  them. Four things Mr Esenwein considers essential to success in
  writing—having something to say, knowing how different editors wish it
  said, knowing how to shape material and knowing the markets.”—Boston
  Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 13:161 Ja ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 28 ‘17 200w

  “‘How to do it’ books are always slightly amusing, but in ‘Writing for
  the magazines’ J. B. Esenwein gives intelligent practical advice as to
  what the editor wants.”

       + =Ind= 90:517 Je 16 ‘17 30w

       + =Lit D= 54:569 Mr 3 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:56 Ja ‘17


=ESENWEIN, JOSEPH BERG, and STOCKARD, MARIETTA.= Children’s stories, and
how to tell them. (Writer’s library) *$1.50 (2½c) Home correspondence
school 372.6 18-781

  Professor Esenwein is head of the literary faculty of the Home
  correspondence school, Springfield, Mass., and Miss Stockard is
  connected with the Wilson normal school, Washington, D.C. The authors
  attempt to give “a clear statement of the various methods used
  successfully by story-tellers,” and, from these methods, to deduce
  certain simple foundation-principles “so as to help the student of the
  art to understand the material he has to work with, the forms in which
  it may be cast, various successful methods of presentation, the
  limitations of his hearers, and the ends he is justified in seeking to
  gain.” (Foreword) All this is covered in the eleven chapters of part
  1, each chapter being followed by “Suggestions for study and
  discussion.” Part 2 consists of “Fifty stories to tell to children.”
  These include among others animal, Bible, patriot, Thanksgiving,
  Christmas, and hero stories. Part 3 gives eight suggestive “Reading
  and reference lists,” such as “Source-books for the storyteller,”
  “Books on literary study and its value,” etc. A list of publishers’
  addresses is given.

  “Now, the important and joyous thing about this excellent new book is
  that it indicates a reiterated faith on the part of the authors and
  publishers that story telling is an important factor in life.”

       + =Ind= 92:444 D 1 ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:422 D ‘17 30w


=ESSEN, LÉON VAN DER.= Invasion and the war in Belgium; with a sketch of
the diplomatic negotiations preceding the conflict. il *15s T. Fisher
Unwin, London 940.91 (Eng ed 17-17104)

  “‘Our aim,’ writes Professor van der Essen, ‘has been to give for the
  first time a connected account and a complete survey of all the events
  of the German invasion and of the war in Belgium from the attack on
  Liège till after the battle of the Yser. ... We have always referred
  to our sources to enable the reader to control our evidence.’ ... The
  account of the military operations is drawn chiefly from three
  sources—the official report of the Belgium general staff; a
  compilation by a Belgian officer entitled ‘Les pages de gloire de
  l’armée Belge’; and reprinted articles from the newspaper Le XXme.
  Siècle.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) The author was professor of
  history at the University of Louvain.

  “The fullest and best account of the invasion of Belgium that we have
  yet seen. ... This book shows in detail what the Belgians did. ... The
  author gives a clear and dispassionate account of the siege and fall
  of Antwerp.”

       + =Spec= 118:675 Je 16 ‘17 270w

  “The translation falls below the ordinary standard of translations
  from the French. It is about upon a level with them; but that level is
  not high. ... We must confess to some disappointment with the critical
  methods of the author. We cannot always share his confidence in his
  authorities. ... Professor van der Essen is also very loose in his
  reckoning of casualties. ... From a military point of view, therefore,
  we cannot regard this book as of any great value; and yet we welcome
  it and commend it heartily to the English reader.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p242 My 24 ‘17 1200w


=EVANS, CARADOC.= My people. 4th ed *$1.35 Duffield (Eng ed 16-20112)

  “Mr Caradoc Evans’s tales have a comparatively novel setting as an
  addition to their many purely literary merits. ... The peasants of
  West Wales are the characters and the neighborhood centring around
  Capel Sion the scene of all these stories. ... Many of the tales in
  this volume are sketches, perhaps, rather than stories, but they are
  every one of them interesting. The quaint dialect is fascinating, the
  whole point of view of these people redolent of the soil of which they
  are practically a part.” (N Y Times) The first English edition
  appeared in 1915.

         =N Y Br Lib News= 5:74 My ‘17

  “This is not in any way what can be called a pleasant book. It is
  realism, grim and stark. Realism of that type one usually associates
  with Russian fiction. ... Yet because he is a genuine and not a pseudo
  realist, every here and there appears some individual through whose
  character there runs a thread of pure gold. ... The tales are not
  without touches of comedy.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:222 Je 10 ‘17 620w

         =Pittsburgh= 21:483 N ‘16


=EVERSLEY, GEORGE JOHN SHAW-LEFEVRE, 1st baron.= Turkish empire: its
growth and decay. il *$3 (2c) Dodd 949.6 (Eng ed 17-29198)

  “In the course of his long life Lord Eversley has witnessed the
  greater part of the events which have resulted in the expulsion of the
  Turks. So far back as in 1855 and 1857, he spent some time at
  Constantinople, and travelled in Bulgaria and Greece, and later, in
  1890 and 1895, he revisited these countries and was able to compare
  their condition with what he recollected from his former visits. In a
  single volume, in a compact and popular form, he has given not a
  complete history of the Turkish empire, but a description of the
  processes by which it was aggregated, under the first ten great
  sultans, and has since been in great part dismembered under their
  twenty-six degenerate successors. In the latter part of his volume,
  Lord Eversley has drawn from his own experience, and puts on record
  his conversations with Lord Stratford de Redcliffe and the Ex-Sultan
  Abdul Hamid.” (Publishers’ note) The book is divided into two parts:
  The growth of empire, and The decay of empire. There are three maps.

  “Lord Eversley knows Turkey well, and is therefore able to write
  informatively upon the causes which led to the rise of that once great
  and flourishing nation, and to its subsequent decline and
  dismemberment. This is a book which should be widely read, especially
  at the present period.”

       + =Ath= p530 O ‘17 90w

  “This very readable and interesting book was written to meet the need
  of a clear-cut historical interpretation of the forces of
  disintegration in Turkey. Intentionally of secular rather than
  academic appeal, it is not the result of independent research, but is
  based mainly on the great work of von Hammer, the German historian,
  although many other authorities have been drawn upon for new
  historical evidence.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:576 D 23 ‘17 550w

  “Lord Eversley’s intention to be fair is evident on every page; but,
  knowing nothing personally of the Asiatic side of Turkey, he has given
  too much faith to English writers with a grudge against it, who in
  their turn have given too much faith to eastern Christian writers of a
  bygone age. Lord Eversley is fairer in his judgment of the Turks, it
  may be said at once, than any other British author of his standpoint.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:309 O 20 ‘17 1100w

       + =Spec= 119:716 D 15 ‘17 1100w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p467 S 27 ‘17 70w

  “The Turk has been a failure, and Lord Eversley’s book enables the
  reader to review with comparative brevity the career of this idle
  apprentice among the nations. It is interesting and useful to have the
  main points of Ottoman history with some garnishment of picturesque or
  arresting detail set forth so handily as in the present volume, but
  the reader could wish that more attention had been given to the
  spelling of names and the identification of persons; nor should the
  capture of Athens and the subsequent strangling of Franco degli
  Acciajuoli, the last reigning Duke of Athens and Lord of Thebes, be
  represented as the destruction of the last spark of Greek
  independence.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p471 O 4 ‘17 1900w


=EWERS, HANNS HEINZ.= Edgar Allan Poe; tr. by Adèle Lewisohn. *60c (7c)
Huebsch 17-2710

  This essay on Poe is translated from the German. Its author was born
  in Düsseldorf in 1871 and he has, the translator tells us, lived in
  almost all the countries of the world. He spent some time in India,
  finding himself deeply in sympathy with its mysticism. The translator
  says, “At a time when Poe was comparatively little understood Ewers
  was his most sympathetic German interpreter. He is able to mirror the
  soul of Poe because they are intellectual kinsmen.”

  Reviewed by H: B. Fuller

         =Dial= 62:433 My 17 ‘17 1200w

  “The swift, delicate, precise sentences give no sense of
  translation. ... Ewers’s enthusiastic study, rather his pean in praise
  of Poe, is a distinct contribution to our growing critical literature
  on the poet.”

       + =Ind= 89:115 Ja 15 ‘17 100w

       — =Nation= 104:410 Ap 5 ‘17 220w

         =St Louis= 15:119 Ap ‘17

  “Only a German could allow a criticism of Poe to degenerate into a
  vitriolic attack upon everything English. This is just what happened
  to Hanns Heinz Ewer’s essay on Poe.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 400w




                                   F


=FABRE, JEAN HENRI CASIMIR.= Insect adventures; selections from
Alexander Teixeira de Mattos’ translation of Fabre’s “Souvenirs
entomologiques,” retold for young people by Louise Seymour Hasbrouck. il
*$2 (3c) Dodd 595.7 17-31000

  Fabre was a French school-teacher of whom an English critic said: “He
  is the wisest man, and the best read in the book of nature, of whom
  the centuries have left us any record.” Chapter seventeen of the
  volume gives an interesting sketch of his early years and incidentally
  shows what problems the French pedagogue had to meet back in the last
  century. The book makes a big appeal to the young imagination in such
  expressions as the caddis-worm “pirates,” the “insect submarines,” and
  the “spider’s telegraph wires.” His life stories of familiar insects
  will prove fascinating because he touches into life the human quality;
  because instead of ripping up an animal and turning it into an object
  of horror and pity in the dissecting room he studies it alive “under
  the blue sky to the song of the cicadas.”

  “After reading what he has to say about the mysteries of the spider,
  we feel as we did after reading Maeterlinck’s incomparable ‘Life of
  the bee.’ His books should be received with the appreciation they
  deserve. They are written by a great lover of nature who happened to
  be a great scientist as well.”

       + =Lit D= 55:54 D 8 ‘17 140w

  “Will give young people a new interest in the natural life around
  them.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:571 D 23 ‘17 50w

  “The great virtue of Fabre as an author for children is that he
  teaches the habit of patient and precise observation. There should,
  then, be a welcome for ‘Insect adventures.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 80w


=FABRE, JEAN HENRI CASIMIR.= Life of the grasshopper; tr. by Alexander
Teixeira de Mattos. *$1.50 (1½c) Dodd 595.7 17-9824

  The translator says, “I have ventured in the present volume to gather
  together, under the somewhat loose and inaccurate title of ‘The life
  of the grasshopper,’ the essays scattered over the ‘Souvenirs
  entomologiques’ that treat of grasshoppers, crickets, locusts and such
  insects as the cicada, or cigale, the mantis and the cuckoo-spit, or,
  to adopt the author’s happier and more euphonious term, the foamy
  cicadella. They exhaust the number of the orthopterous and homopterous
  insects discussed by Henri Fabre.” Some of the chapters have appeared
  in a translation by Bernard Miall, published with the title “Social
  life in the insect world.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:336 My ‘17

       + =Dial= 63:214 S 13 ‘17 290w

  “This volume attests his delicacy of observation, his humor of
  description, his unequaled and astonishing patience.”

       + =Lit D= 56:40 Ja 12 ‘18 90w

  “It goes without saying that we have here, once more, all the
  sincerity, sagacity, keen sight and insight, and the ripe ‘human’
  flavor that have already made a half-dozen volumes of Fabre popular in
  translation.”

 *     + =Nation= 105:155 Ag 9 ‘17 100w

  “In this book, as always, Fabre’s interest centers in instinct; but
  here as elsewhere, in spite of the accumulation of accurately
  determined data, he makes no contribution to the solution of the
  problem of the essential nature of instinct. One loves Fabre for his
  inveterate aversion to the intricate panoply of modern scientific
  research, but one sees him as the last of his race.” E. S. S.

       + =New Repub= 12:165 S 8 ‘17 950w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Ap 27 ‘17 220w


=FABRE, JEAN HENRI CASIMIR.= Story-book of science. il *$2 (2c) Century
504 17-25300

  This volume, translated from the nineteenth French edition by Florence
  Constable Bicknell, is one of a series of elementary science works
  written by the eminent French naturalist in the belief that the truths
  of nature could be made more interesting than fiction to young people.
  The translator says, “The identity of the ‘Uncle Paul,’ who ... plays
  the story-teller’s part, is not hard to guess; and the young people
  who gather about him to listen to his true stories ... are, without
  doubt, the author’s own children, in whose companionship he delighted
  and whose education he conducted with wise solicitude.” The stories
  are not limited to the insect life which engrossed so much of the
  author’s attention. The wonders of the rocks, the planets, the flowers
  and fruits and of the sea are disclosed to the children’s eager minds.

  “Delightful for reading aloud as they will interest grown folk as well
  as some of the older boys and girls.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:100 D ‘17

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:497 D ‘17 110w

  “The author’s wide grasp of scientific facts has been no barrier in
  making a book for young readers that endows these facts with the
  witchery of fairy lore.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 30w

  “It should prove an invaluable book for growing children: a book of
  reference in answering intelligently numerous and constant queries of
  childhood.”

       + =Lit D= 56:39 Ja 26 ‘18 190w

  “Curiosity and the love of story are here blended in just proportions.
  Miss Bicknell has furnished a competent English translation and the
  Century company has done its share by publishing it on good paper in
  admirably clear type.”

       + =New Repub= 13:104 N 24 ‘17 170w

  “We owe a debt of thanks to translator and publisher who have put into
  our hands in English words Fabre’s stories of sciences for children.
  For to his well-known charm of style and his knowledge, Fabre adds an
  understanding of the child’s mind.” Maud Thompson

       + =N Y Call= p15 N 11 ‘17 550w


=FABRE D’OLIVET, ANTOINE=, tr. Golden verses of Pythagoras; done into
English by Nayán Louise Redfield. il *$3 (3½c) Putnam 182 17-9234

  Fabre d’Olivet, an eighteenth century philosopher, translated the
  “Golden verses of Pythagoras” into French, with “a discourse upon the
  essence and form of poetry among the principal peoples of the earth”
  as a preface. He also wrote a more extended “Examination of the golden
  verses,” which was first published in 1813. For the present volume
  Miss Redfield has translated both these discourses, and she presents
  also, in addition to the Greek and French versions, an English
  translation of the “Golden verses.”

  “In the ‘Golden verses of Pythagoras’ Fabre d’Olivet illustrates at
  the same time a philosophical insight which amounts to genius, and a
  self-centred frenzy of purpose which touches genius on the one hand
  and insanity on the other. The general effect of self-hypnosis is
  furthered by a fluency and warmth of style in the original which Miss
  Redfield admirably succeeds in retaining in her translation.” R. W.

         =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 31 ‘17 450w

  “Fabre d’Olivet died in 1825. At no time have orthodox scholars taken
  him and his attempts to recover what is called the ancient wisdom
  seriously. His theories, however, have been popularized by M. Édouard
  Schurer in his cinematic survey of religions, ‘Les grands initiés,’
  and have had considerable success.”

         =Dial= 62:406 My 3 ‘17 340w

       + =Lit D= 55:38 N 3 ‘17 300w

       — =Nation= 104:765 Je 28 ‘17 600w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:78 My ‘17

  “The translator has preserved a capable, selective vision and
  sympathetic understanding of the high content and beauty of the
  Pythagorean teachings.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:323 S 2 ‘17 450w

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 350w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p570 N 22 ‘17 70w


=FAIRBANKS, DOUGLAS.= Laugh and live. il *$1 (3c) Britton pub. 174
17-13235

  These nineteen essays in the vein of Pollyanna are by a popular star
  of the “movies,” who chats cheerfully on such topics as: Building up a
  personality; Cleanliness of body and mind; Physical and mental
  preparedness, etc.

       + =Lit D= 55:33 S 1 ‘17 50w

  “Mr Fairbanks talks his honest heart out in this book. He takes you
  into his confidence, talks to you as man to man, quite like Billy
  Sunday chatting with God. ... Success is his god, a sleek, smiling
  fetish. He voices and radiates the desire of America. ... His is the
  quintessential creed of a society that perhaps nothing short of war
  and calamity can galvanize into a realization of the swollen
  hollowness of its egotism.”

       — =New Repub= 12:113 Ag 25 ‘17 650w

  “As for success, he sums it up: ‘We find that a sound body, a good
  mind, an honest purpose, and a lack of fear are the essential elements
  of success.’ That is a large order, certainly! But just as certainly
  it is sane and wholesome. That is where the merit of Mr Fairbanks’s
  book lies for his readers; he puts a tremendous amount of breeziness
  into excellent platitudes.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:382 O 7 ‘17 700w


=FAIRCHILD, HENRY PRATT.=[2] Outline of applied sociology. *$1.75 (2c)
Macmillan 302 17-50

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “The larger contribution of Professor Fairchild’s book to the textbook
  literature of sociology is in its clear presentation of the
  relationships between wages, working conditions, efficiency, housing,
  and the more specific aspects of the problem of living standards and
  social welfare. No other general textbook goes so fully into these
  matters, and yet they are not here discussed from a merely descriptive
  or analytical standpoint. Conclusions and implications are most
  carefully drawn from the data presented.” L. L. Bernard

       + =Am Econ R= 7:601 S ‘17 460w

  “As to weaknesses, the reviewer finds only those which naturally might
  be expected to follow from the tremendous size of the task which the
  author has undertaken. It is a contribution to a comprehensive
  consideration of social life and progress on the part of the person
  who is beginning a scientific study of society.” E. S. Bogardus

       + =Am J Soc= 23:269 S ‘17 500w

  “A fresh and independent treatment, developed in a scholarly yet
  popular way, and suggestive to students in connection with other books
  on the subject, though the theoretical background, to some critics,
  seems quite inadequate.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 13:288 Ap ‘17

  “The esthetic life is scantily treated. To the intellectual life are
  allotted barely two pages on education, while science, the most
  powerful intellectual force, is entirely ignored. Religion, by which
  the author seems to mean Christianity, is treated from the
  conventional, up-to-date Christian point of view. Much emphasis [is
  put] upon the abnormal and pathological aspects of social life. The
  principal defect of this book is that it utterly ignores biology and
  psychology.” Maurice Parmelee

     – + =Ann Am Acad= 72:243 Jl ‘17 400w

       + =Ind= 91:137 Jl 28 ‘17 70w

  “An excellent text for the college classroom. The student will find in
  it unevasive information or controverted questions, and a commonsense
  guidance at every turn. It is a book, nevertheless, that will make
  intellectual trouble. Every teacher that uses it will ask, and in his
  own way will answer, the question, whether the subject-matter here
  presented is in any proper sense sociology, either pure or applied.”

     + — =Nation= 105:272 S 6 ‘17 620w

  “The style is simple, clear, and thoroughly readable.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:58 F 18 ‘17 250w

  “His treatment of specific topics may be regarded as more summary than
  that of other writers in this field, but there is a compensating
  advantage in the emphasis placed upon the analysis and classification
  of social facts, each in its relation to a comprehensive whole.”

     + — =R of Rs= 55:443 Ap ‘17 160w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 16 ‘17 320w

  “In ignoring the separate treatment of cross sections of human
  experience and action, and in compassing the sphere of man’s whole
  human environment, this text-book is distinctive. The book is
  noteworthy for its inclusion and very direct dealing with so many
  pressing phases of present social development. Its references and
  supplementary readings, together with a good index, add to its value.”
  Graham Taylor

       + =Survey= 38:573 S 29 ‘17 310w


=FALES, JANE.= Dressmaking; a manual for schools and colleges. il *$1.50
Scribner 646 17-1600

  “Part 1 presents the development of costume from the standpoint of
  history and design. Part 2 considers the materials which are used in
  dressmaking, and discusses the economic value of various fibers and
  fabrics. Part 3 treats design and technique in pattern-making and
  dressmaking.”—School R

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:336 My ‘17 (Reprinted from Open Shelf,
         Cleveland)

  “Contains more material on costume and on textile manufacture than
  Baldt’s ‘Clothing for women,’ and less instruction on the more
  elementary details of garment construction. Both books have much
  material on pattern drafting and the use of commercial paper patterns.
  An unusually complete bibliography and index add to the usefulness of
  the book.”

       + =Cleveland= p41 Mr ‘17 70w

  “Will be valuable to home dressmakers as well as to class students.”

       + =Ind= 91:267 Ag 18 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:666 O ‘17 10w

         =Pratt= p25 O ‘17 20w

  “The author is director of the department of textiles and clothing in
  Teachers college, Columbia university.”

         =St Louis= 15:113 Ap ‘17 16w

       + =School Arts Magazine= 16:356 Ap ‘17 100w

  “The text is a distinct acquisition to the literature of home
  economics.”

       + =School R= 25:302 Ap ‘17 50w


=FALL, DELOS.= Science for beginners. (New-world science ser.) il $1.20
(1c) World bk. co. 502

  A first book in general science intended for intermediate schools and
  junior high schools. It is based on the principle that, to gain the
  best results, the pupil must collect his own material and learn to
  draw his own conclusions. “The teacher is asked to keep in mind that
  the chief purpose of this book is not to give the pupils a large
  amount of information, but rather to introduce them to a method
  through the use of which they will acquire the habit of gaining
  information for themselves.” (Preface) The first chapter discusses
  Science and the scientific method; the second, What the young
  scientist must learn to do. These are followed by chapters on: Matter
  and its forms; Some properties of matter; Changes in matter; Oxygen:
  the active element; Hydrogen and its compounds; A study of water, etc.
  The author, now professor of chemistry in Albion college, was formerly
  state superintendent of public instruction in Michigan.

  “The first half of this volume treats of elementary chemistry, the
  latter part of elementary physics. There is a smattering of biological
  material treated from the standpoint of chemistry. Chapter nineteen,
  on ‘The potato,’ is the only one with a title suggestive of living
  things. The book has many good features. It attempts drill in the
  scientific method of thinking, and some of the exercises are in
  problem form, though most of them are demonstrations of facts stated
  in the text and afford little opportunity for reflective thinking. The
  book impresses one as an attempt on the part of an enthusiastic
  chemist to pre-empt some time in the first year science for his
  favorite subject.”

   + – — =School R= 26:67 Ja ‘18 550w


Fall of the Romanoffs.[2] il *$5 Dutton 947 (Eng ed 18-540)

  “This new volume, by the anonymous author of the remarkably opportune
  ‘Russian court memoirs, 1914-16,’ published last March on the morrow
  of the revolution, purports to show how the ex-Empress and Rasputin
  between them were responsible for the downfall of the autocracy.” (The
  Times [London] Lit Sup) “Believing that the weakness of the Czar and
  the evil influence of the Czarina made the downfall of the royal
  family inevitable, the writer still holds that a greater effort should
  have been made to avoid actual abdication, and that even if the
  Romanoffs themselves were banished a reformed monarchy would be the
  proper and wise form of government for Russia. ... The writer deplores
  the fall of Milukoff and laments the rise of the Social Democrats with
  Kerensky—although expressing admiration of that leader himself.” (N Y
  Times)

  “Written frankly from the monarchist’s point of view, the book offers
  none the less most interesting information, and no little food for
  thought. The book devotes a good deal of space to the recital of
  superstitions, and it is impossible to avoid suspicion that the
  anonymous author is markedly prejudiced. No one could call the volume
  authoritative. But it is exceedingly interesting from beginning to
  end.”

     + — =N Y Times= 23:2 Ja 6 ‘18 1300w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p557 N 15 ‘17 130w


=FALLON, JOHN TIERNAN=, ed.[2] How to make concrete garden furniture and
accessories. il *$1.50 (5c) McBride 693 17-17213

  The preface traces the history of concrete as a building material,
  showing that its use dates from early antiquity. The seven chapters of
  the book are devoted to: The selection and testing of material; How to
  proportion and mix the materials; Making forms and placing the
  concrete; How to make garden walks, steps and other simple utilities;
  How to make sundials, benches and swimming pools; Bird baths,
  lanterns, pottery and water gardens; Making concrete garden frames and
  garden rollers. There are nineteen half-tone plates and numerous
  illustrations in the text.

  “Deals in general with more elaborate construction than most other
  books on the subject.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:755 N ‘17 40w


=FALLS, DE WITT CLINTON.= Army and navy information. il *$1 Dutton 355
17-29353

  The author, an officer of the New York national guard, has brought
  together information relating to the uniforms, organization, arms and
  equipment of the warring powers. The book is illustrated with six
  colored plates and thirty line cuts by the author.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:112 Ja ‘18

  “This timely and useful little reference book is something no one can
  afford to do without today.”

       + =Cath World= 106:555 Ja ‘18 40w

  “As a handy reference, this book will be found serviceable to
  civilians as well as soldiers, and all those who write about the war.”

       + =Ind= 92:343 N 17 ‘17 50w

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ja ‘18 50w

       + =R of Rs= 56:550 N ‘17 60w


=FANNING, CLARA ELIZABETH=, comp. Selected articles on capital
punishment. (Debaters’ handbook ser.) 3d and rev ed *$1.25 (1c) Wilson,
H. W. 016.343 17-12266

  This is the third edition of a debaters’ handbook published first in
  1909. The second edition was issued in 1913. The explanatory note
  says, “The third edition varies from the second in two parts. The
  bibliography has had references inserted in all its divisions to bring
  it up to date. New pages have been added at the end of the book with
  selected articles grouped as general, affirmative and negative. Since
  the arguments have undergone no material change in three years, the
  chief service of this section is in making accessible several magazine
  articles and pamphlets not found in the average library.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:457 Jl ‘17

       + =R of Rs= 56:109 Jl ‘17 180w

       + =Survey= 38:361 Jl 21 ‘17 50w


=FARIS, JOHN THOMSON.= Old roads out of Philadelphia. il *$4 Lippincott
917.48 17-28890

  “It would be hard to find anywhere in America roads richer in
  historical interest than those that lead out from Philadelphia, and
  John T. Faris in his book has told the story of them well. He takes
  his readers along the King’s highway to Wilmington, over the Baltimore
  turnpike, the Gulph road, the turnpikes to Westchester and Lancaster,
  the old Germantown road, the road to Bethlehem, the Ridge road to
  Perkiomen, the old York road, and that to Bristol and Trenton. On each
  one he tells about the famous historical events that happened along
  its way, the important men and women who have traversed it, points out
  the features of local interest both now and during former times, and
  mentions its beauties of landscape.” (N Y Times) “A photographer went
  with him on many of his journeys of exploration, providing the
  illustrations, one hundred and seventeen in number, which accompany
  the text.” (Lit D)

  “So far as relates to the eleven roads and their surroundings, Mr
  Faris has done his work well. The writer of this review has lived in
  part of this territory since his boyhood and can testify to the
  substantial accuracy and, in general, the judiciousness of the
  selection of material for his descriptions.” I: Sharpless

       + =Am Hist R= 23:439 Ja ‘18 430w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:91 D ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 7 ‘17 350w

  “With much curious lore has the subject been enriched, showing
  diligence and no little original research in the treatment.”

       + =Dial= 63:528 N 22 ‘17 160w

  “The book will add immensely to the pleasure and interest of
  Philadelphians who motor and walk in the neighborhood of their city,
  and it will have its appeal also for lovers of the historical and the
  picturesque everywhere.”

       + =Lit D= 55:41 D 8 ‘17 160w

       + =N Y Times= 22:482 N 18 ‘17 200w

       + =Outlook= 117:576 D 5 ‘17 40w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:824 D ‘17 30w

  “A good companion volume to Mr Lippincott’s book [’Early
  Philadelphia’].”

       + =R of Rs= 57:103 Ja ‘18 90w

  “There are many pleasant discoveries for the traveler along these
  roads out of Philadelphia with Mr Faris as guide.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 7 ‘17 700w


=FARMER, FRANK MALCOLM.= Electrical measurements in practice. il *$4
McGraw 537.7 17-17201

  “The author is the head of one of the best-known commercial testing
  staffs in the country, and throughout the book the topics are
  presented from the practical standpoint of the tester. Descriptions of
  instruments and methods of employment alternate.” (Engin News-Rec)
  “The book is divided into sixteen chapters dealing with the following
  subjects: Introductory, galvanometers, continuous emf. measurements,
  continuous-current measurements, alternating emf. measurements,
  alternating-current measurements, resistance reactance and impedance
  measurements, power measurements, energy measurements, maximum-demand
  instruments, inductance measurements, capacitance measurements,
  frequency and slip measurements, wave-form determinations, magnetic
  measurements, curve-drawing instruments.” (Elec World) The book has
  230 illustrations and diagrams.

  “Mr Farmer’s descriptions are concise and clear, but he does not
  compare the several methods of making any one of the numerous
  electrical measurements as fully as might be desired. The book will,
  however, be useful to anyone who has electrical testing to do, in
  furnishing him with several practical plans for making any desired
  measurement.”

     + — =Electric Railway Journal= 50:44 Jl 7 ‘17 140w

  “This is an excellent and timely text and reference book on electrical
  measurements from the industrial viewpoint. There are various
  excellent treatises available on the principles and physical relations
  of electrical measurements, but there are very few which deal with
  electrical measurements as they have to be made in electrical
  engineering laboratories for the purposes of the industry. ... The
  treatment is clear, thorough, practical and up to date. The chapter on
  maximum demand instruments is particularly timely.”

       + =Elec World= 70:312 Ag 18 ‘17 140w

  “The particular audience addressed by Mr Farmer is of course largely
  composed of electrical engineers. But his book is of considerable use
  in the libraries of a larger group of engineers, particularly those
  dealing with hydroelectric work, because ultimately the performance of
  their generating and transmission installations have to be tested by
  well-tried instruments and practices of the electrical test
  laboratory, more or less modified to suit field conditions. ... The
  sections on power and energy measurements and on maximum-demand and
  curve-drawing instruments are of conspicuous merit.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:128 Jl 19 ‘17 130w

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p7 Jl ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:658 O ‘17

         =Pratt= p22 O ‘17 40w


=FARNOL, JEFFERY.= Definite object; a romance of New York. il *$1.50
(1½c) Little 17-15972

  Geoffrey Ravenslee was suffering from the boredom of too much money.
  Life offered him a variety of diversions but no definite object. A
  young amateur burglar, attempting to break into his house, brings the
  needed change. Geoffrey decides that instead of turning young Spike
  over to the authorities, he will accompany him to his home in lower
  New York and see something of life from another angle. He finds all
  that he has been looking for,—adventure, of course, and with it
  romance; for Spike, the would-be burglar, proves to be the adored
  younger brother of a very lovely sister.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:26 O ‘17

     + — =Ath= p527 O ‘17 130w

  “Nothing could be more unreal in the midst of realities than Mr
  Farnol’s latest novel. Although its scene is New York, although its
  characters are New Yorkers, although its time is the present, its
  atmosphere is the atmosphere of ‘The broad highway,’ ‘The amateur
  gentleman’ and ‘Beltane the smith.’ ... It need not, however, be
  imagined for an instant that ‘The definite object’ is any the less
  diverting because we cannot believe a word of it. ... But readers will
  not be disappointed, for they will find in it a romantic world of the
  same element and variety that have made the appealing charm of all his
  other novels.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 9 ‘17 1250w

  “Some of the character drawing—the pompous butler Brimberly, the
  loquacious Old ‘Un, and the shrewish Mrs Ann Angelina Trapes—is as
  good as Dickens at his best.”

       + =Cath World= 105:837 S ‘17 160w

         =Ind= 91:35 Jl 7 ‘17 40w

  “Mr Farnol, his publishers inform us, knew the New York slum life at
  first hand, during the time of his obscure activities as a
  scene-painter, ere fame found him. One may say enough of this book,
  perhaps, in saying that it shows the sort of fidelity to detail and
  falsity of color and perspective which are still to be found upon the
  flies and backdrops of melodrama.”

       — =Nation= 105:15 Jl 5 ‘17 330w

  “The book is romance, not realism, and very delightful and
  entertaining romance, too, with plenty of incident, any amount of
  ardent lovemaking, more than one hairbreadth escape, and several fist
  fights of the most energetic, not to say violent character.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:213 Je 3 ‘17 750w

  “Mr Farnol’s knowledge of New York slang is astonishingly accurate and
  up to date. Frankly, his characters would be more agreeable if they
  were not so voluble—one cannot see the story for the words. But Mr
  Farnol has a large following of readers, and they will find fun and
  action in this romance, despite this criticism.”

         =Outlook= 116:198 My 30 ‘17 60w

         =Sat R= 124:373 N 10 ‘17 400w

         =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 400w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p430 S 6 ‘17 400w


=FARRAR, GILBERT POWDERLY.= Typography of advertisements that pay. il
*$2.25 Appleton 659 17-18351

  This book “discusses type and combinations of type, blank spaces in
  which cuts and text appear as islands or peninsulas, the various kinds
  of effective illustrations, serious and comic, and it reproduces
  dozens of more or less effective examples, ... distributed according
  to a general classification as the Forceful educational, the Passive
  educational, the Hand-lettered, the Poster, the Character and the
  Comic, the Small space, the Mail order and the Department
  store.”—Boston Transcript

  “Takes up the mechanical side of advertising and goes into more detail
  than Sherbow’s ‘Making type work’ in that it discusses the picture and
  engraving side, hand lettering and borders. Has many more examples
  than Sherbow.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:45 N ‘17

  “Mr Farrar’s book is admirably adapted to classroom work because of
  its good arrangement, well-chosen illustrations, and its simple manner
  of presenting technical material. A peculiar virtue of the book is
  that the type faces are placed in close relationship to the
  advertisements that employ them. An excellent chapter is that entitled
  Putting the advertisement together. The chapter on Making the message
  quick and sure is a most excellent treatment of the employment of
  types for the essential purpose of making clear what you have to say.”
  J. W. Piercy

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:295 N ‘17 250w

  “Full of excellent suggestions, wise advice, and practical help.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 8 ‘17 250w

         =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 10w

  “There are few firms that could not improve their advertising—and
  their sales—by observing some of the principles of lettering and type
  set forth in this useful book.”

       + =Ind= 91:441 S 15 ‘17 120w

  “This useful volume supplies a very definite need among advertising
  men and printers.” P. B.

       + =St Louis= 15:366 O ‘17 30w


=FARRER, JAMES ANSON.= Monarchy in politics. *$3 (3c) Dodd 942.07 (Eng
ed 18-388)

  “An impartial inquiry into the actual practical working of
  constitutional monarchy in England during the reigns of George III,
  George IV, William IV, and Queen Victoria, as illustrated by the
  evidence of the letters, memoirs, diaries, and speeches of
  contemporary statesmen, and especially of the letters of those
  sovereigns themselves to their ministers, or others, in respect of the
  chief foreign and domestic problems of their reigns. The writer’s
  endeavour has been to glean from as wide a field as possible of the
  best contemporary sources the chief evidence that bears on the
  position of the crown in our system of government.” (Publisher’s note)
  A three-page bibliography of the chief works consulted is included in
  the front of the volume, following the table of contents.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:113 Ja ‘18

       + =Ath= p671 D ‘17 360w

  “Mr Farrer has demonstrated to foreign students of British government
  a fact which they are too prone to disregard, namely, that while the
  legal powers of the monarch may have dwindled down to almost nothing,
  the personal influence of a strong-willed sovereign may still prove to
  be a factor of great consequence. No student of modern European
  history or of English government can afford to overlook this volume.”

     + — =Nation= 106:93 Ja 24 ‘18 800w

  “There are one or two inaccuracies of names and dates; but we can
  recommend the book to serious readers, who wish to examine
  historically the exercise of kingly power by the house of Hanover. The
  part of Mr Farrer’s book to which most readers will turn with greatest
  attention is his account of the intervention in politics of Queen
  Victoria and Prince Albert.”

       + =Sat R= 124:483 D 15 ‘17 1550w

  “Mr Farrer has chosen the method of telling an almost consecutive
  story out of the letters and memoirs of the chief actors, and done it
  with no little skill, for his book contains a quantity of information
  which, though not new, was well worth bringing together, while it is
  at the same time quite entertaining.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p548 N 15 ‘17 850w


=FARRÈRE, CLAUDE, pseud. (CHARLES BARGONE).= Man who killed; tr. by
Magdalen C. Schuyler. *$1.50 Brentano’s 17-29736

  “Pera, where the Orient apes European streets and shops and
  manners, ... and across the Golden Horn, Stamboul, its minarets and
  domes rising like white bubbles over the grass-grown Turkish
  cemeteries. In this curious setting is enacted the little drama, whose
  principal characters are a French military attaché, an English
  ‘Director of the Ottoman debt,’ his wife, his Scotch mistress, and a
  secretary of the Russian embassy. ... M. Farrère has written his
  narrative as though it were a group of notes from the journal of the
  attaché, the chief protagonist. ... His journal presents both his
  fascinating personal adventure and his reaction to the apparently
  placid and actually fermenting life about him.”—N Y Times

  “M. Farrère has what so many of our contemporary writers
  lack—intellectual sophistication and good taste. Dramatic reserve,
  intelligent characterization, and an exotic background, painted with
  beauty and understanding, make a strange tale plausible and worth the
  reading.”

       + =Dial= 63:597 D 6 ‘17 180w

  “The impressiveness of the story is created not so much by the
  plausibility of the situation as by a style which even translation
  does not destroy. The title alone seems unfortunate, for it might be
  the caption for any cheap thriller, but the novel is the work of a
  clever technician and a well-informed teller of tales.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:452 N 4 ‘17 350w


=FAULKNER, HAROLD UNDERWOOD.= Chartism and the churches; a study in
democracy. (Columbia univ. studies in history, economics and public law)
pa *$1.25 Longmans 16-25225

  This work “is a study of the attitude of the churches to Chartism, and
  of the attitude of the Chartists toward the churches, particularly
  toward the Established Church of England, which in the early days of
  the Chartist movement was, as a national institution intended
  primarily for the service of the people, at its lowest ebb. ... Mr
  Faulkner’s book is a venture into a field that hitherto had been quite
  unexplored either by English or American writers.”—Ind

  “The work reveals most extensive use of the voluminous literature of
  the subject, is interesting and free from bias. The indexing is
  inadequate. The chief defect of this study is in its failure to make
  connection with anti-ecclesiastic and anti-clerical influences which
  in the period preceding Chartism had come to be widespread through
  Owenism.” H. E. Mills

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:607 S ‘17 250w

  “A book of which the full value is not stated when it has been said
  that it is an excellent, almost indispensable companion volume to
  those of Messrs Rosenblatt and Slosson. It is a distinct contribution
  also to the history of the Established church, the Roman Catholic
  church, and the Nonconformist or free churches of England and Scotland
  in the first ten or fifteen years of Queen Victoria’s reign. It deals
  with an aspect of organized Christianity in Great Britain which has
  been generally ignored by church historians, and scarcely mentioned by
  the general historians of the nineteenth century.” E: Porritt

       + =Am Hist R= 22:651 Ap ‘17 250w

  “There can be no complete understanding of the unbroken success of
  the trade union movement, the coöperative movement, and the friendly
  societies movement in England, or even a full realization of the
  causes which have combined to give England the most politically
  independent and the best politically educated working-class of any
  country in the world, without some knowledge of the Chartist
  movement, of the type of men who were its leaders, and of the
  influences—political, social and industrial—that were bred of the
  long working-class agitation of the middle years of the nineteenth
  century.” E: Porritt

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:340 My ‘17 650w

  “A book that is more than a contribution to political history. It is a
  book that has its value and its obvious lesson for organized
  Christianity in the United States and Canada as well as in England.”
  E: Porritt

       + =Ind= 89:232 F 5 ‘17 120w

         =J Pol Econ= 25:635 Je ‘17 190w

  “Gives a lively picture of the give-and-take of the free-thinking
  Chartists and the ultra-conservative middle-class churchmen. How the
  ‘Christian socialists’—Frederick Denison Maurice, Charles Kingsley,
  Archdeacon Hare, Thomas Hughes and their associates—put a sort of
  bridge over the chasm by encouraging popular education and practical
  philanthropy is interestingly told.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 220w

  “It may confidently be asserted that no serious student of the social
  and economic history of Great Britain during the nineteenth century
  can afford to miss any one of these three books [on Chartism].” I. C.
  Hannah

       + =Survey= 38:288 Je 30 ‘17 200w


=FAULKNER, HERBERT WALDRON.= Mysteries of the flowers. il *$2 (4½c)
Stokes 581 17-12041

  In simple, untechnical language the author explains blossom structure,
  using the wild flowers of the eastern United States as his examples.
  The adaptation of structure to cross fertilization by means of insects
  is his central theme. There are chapters on: Pistillate flowers and
  staminate flowers; Perfect flowers; Floral mechanisms; Orchids; The
  wind and the flowers; Self-fertilised flowers; Effort and
  accomplishment; Seed sowing. The illustrations are from drawings and
  paintings by the author. A number of them are in color.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:10 O ‘17

  “His study is, however, deeper than merely botanical and presents the
  flowers as being living, breathing personalities, striving as do human
  beings to attain what is to each the ultimate of life. Through his
  sympathetic study and rare insight, we also see their ‘intimate daily
  life,’” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 600w

       + =Ind= 90:381 My 26 ‘17 130w

  “It is the intimate relation between author and subject that attracts
  the reader in this vivified botany, which is as good for the lay
  reader as for the student and interesting to both.”

       + =Lit D= 56:42 Ja 12 ‘18 150w

  “The ‘study’ is made so attractive, and the book is so thoroughly
  readable, that both children and grown folk will delight in the pages
  that have in them so much, not only of botanical lore, but of the
  actual vitality of the plants’ being.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:191 My 13 ‘17 80w

       + =R of Rs= 55:664 Je ‘17 90w


=FAXON, FREDERICK WINTHROP=, ed. Annual magazine subject-index, 1916;
including as pt. 2, The dramatic index, 1916. *$8.50 Boston bk. 050

  “This, the tenth volume of the Magazine subject-index, follows the
  same plan as the previous annuals, and furnishes a subject-index to
  the less common American and English periodicals.” (Preface) New
  periodicals added are: American-Irish Historical Society Journal;
  International Review of Missions; Trail and Timberline, and Biblical
  Review. The magazine index constitutes part 1 of the volume. Part 2
  contains the Dramatic index for 1916, to which is added an appendix
  giving a list of Dramatic books and plays (in English) published
  during 1916.


=FEDERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN AMERICA.= Library of
Christian cooperation. 6v *$5; ea *$1 Missionary education movement 206
17-10987

  The reports of the third quadrennial meeting of the Federal council of
  the churches of Christ in America, held in St Louis in December, 1916,
  are presented in these six volumes. Volume 1, The churches of Christ
  in council, prepared by Charles S. Macfarland, general secretary, is a
  general report, giving the official record of the proceedings of the
  Council. Volumes 2 and 3, prepared by Mr Macfarland and Sidney L.
  Gulick are devoted to The church and international relations,
  presenting the report of the Commission on peace and arbitration. The
  activities of the Commission on peace and arbitration, the independent
  peace activities of the constituent bodies and other religious groups,
  and the activities of the Church peace union and other cooperating
  bodies are covered, and volume 3 closes with discussions of The duty
  of the churches of America in the light of national and of world
  conditions. The subject of international problems is continued in
  volume 4, with the report of the Commission on relations with Japan.
  Volume 5 is devoted to Christian cooperation and world redemption and
  consists of the reports of several special committees. Volume 6,
  prepared by Henry H. Meyer, deals with Cooperation in Christian
  education.

  “As a record of proceedings the volumes are cumbered with much matter
  which is of little interest to the ordinary reader, or even to the
  student of social and ecclesiastical movements. Volume 5 carries the
  largest measure of value to the ordinary Christian worker and the
  church.” A. W. Anthony

     + — =Am J Theol= 21:623 O ‘17 500w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:423 Jl ‘17

  “Any comparison of the relative importance of the books would be
  unfair, for each has its own remarkable value. As unique and
  significant as any is the report on Christian education. The set makes
  a permanent contribution to the history of American Christianity.”

       + =Bib World= 50:125 Ag ‘17 200w

  “The fourth volume [on Japan] is a very able and frank discussion of a
  delicate question.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 3 ‘17 330w

  “The second, third and fourth volumes contain a splendid summary of
  the peculiar problems facing the American church because of the war in
  Europe, and are a thrilling call to the proclamation of the gospel of
  peace.”

       + =Ind= 91:513 S 29 ‘17 240w


=FENOLLOSA, ERNEST FRANCISCO, and POUND, EZRA LOOMIS.= Noh; or,
Accomplishment; a study of the classical stage of Japan. *$2.75 Knopf
895

  This volume includes translations of fifteen examples of the “Noh” or
  classical drama of Japan, which arose in the fifteenth century of our
  era, came near to perishing at the revolution of 1868, and is now “the
  pride and pleasure of the cultivated element of Japan.” “In a
  prefatory note the English author states that the ‘vision and the
  plan’ are the late Ernest Fenollosa’s, that in the prose portion of
  the book he (Mr Ezra Pound) has ‘had but the part of literary
  executor,’ and that in the plays his work has been ‘that of translator
  who has found all the heavy work done for him, and who has had but the
  pleasure of arranging beauty into the words.’” (Ath) Mr Fenollosa, who
  served as Imperial commissioner of arts in Japan and was in close
  touch with Mr Umèwaka Minoru, the official hereditary master of Noh
  ceremonies in the Shogun’s household, contributes a concise essay on
  the origins and development of the Noh drama. “In the appendixes and
  elsewhere are numerous details concerning the care and selection of
  costumes, the masks used, and the like; and at the end of the book is
  an attempt to record some of the music of one of the plays.” (Ath)

         =Ath= p100 F ‘17 250w

  “Mr Pound, in his notes and comments, writes with his usual
  unceremonious directness. ... And as the volume is made by the Clarks,
  of Edinburgh, a ‘serious’ house, one notes, with gratification, an
  almost complete suppression of Mr Pound’s tendency toward
  typographical willfulnesses and eccentricities.” H: B. Fuller

         =Dial= 63:209 S 13 ‘17 900w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:135 S ‘17 50w

  “When we have read ‘Noh; or, Accomplishment,’ our first feeling is
  that of gratitude to Ernest Fenollosa and Ezra Pound for bringing this
  remote but serious and beautiful art so close to us. On Fenollosa’s
  part it meant the devoted labor of more than twenty years. Ezra Pound
  has given a shorter term of labor, but he is one with Fenollosa in his
  loyalty to the spirit of ‘Noh.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:576 D 23 ‘17 850w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:747 N ‘17 100w

  “A curious thing about the plays is their diction. We know not if it
  be because Mr Pound is steeped in the works of Maeterlinck, the school
  of Synge, and the poetry of Mr Yeats, but certain it is that in
  phraseology and dialogue they continually remind one of these
  authors. ... We in the West are not in a position, with the data
  available, to arrive at a full appreciation of ‘Noh.’ ... But we may
  gain some perception at least of the delicacy, the lofty idealism, and
  the noble hopefulness which are among the essential qualities of an
  art that, in Fenollosa’s words, ‘has been a purification of the
  Japanese soul for 400 years.’”

 *       =Sat R= 123:527 Je 9 ‘17 1350w

  “Mr Pound describes the Japanese classical drama as in form
  approaching most nearly to the Greek plays. But it is, we think, a
  very slight resemblance, and certainly in spirit and expression it is
  peculiarly individual. There is about it a simplicity such as is to be
  found in a Hans Andersen fairy-tale, a wealth of imagery reminding us
  of the Celtic drama, and again a dignity of imagination which is like
  nothing so much as some of the work of the Hebrew poets. ... Mr
  Pound’s translation is admirable in most respects, but we wish that he
  did not show a tendency to be influenced by the vocabulary of the
  Celtic drama.”

     + — =Spec= 118:543 My 12 ‘17 750w

  “The uninitiated foreigner is enabled by Mr Pound’s mastery of
  beautiful diction to appreciate the alternately wistful and proud
  appeal of these ghostly masterpieces. ... Two points of cardinal
  interest are emphasized and driven home by this vivacious rendering of
  archaic compositions—their intense humanity and their indifference to
  realism.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p41 Ja 25 ‘17 1550w


=FERBER, EDNA.= Fanny herself. il *$1.40 (1½c) Stokes 17-25431

  Fanny Brandeis, like Miss Ferber’s Emma McChesney, was a successful
  business woman. Her mother, Molly Brandeis, who, after her husband’s
  death, ran Brandeis’ Bazaar in the little middle western town of
  Winnebago, was also a good business woman, but she died of pneumonia,
  brought on by overwork, when Fanny was twenty-four. Then Fanny, swayed
  by “a bitter sorrow, and ambition, and resentment” made up her mind to
  crush out sympathy and unselfishness and the artistic impulse in
  herself, and to mold herself into “a hard, keen-eyed resolute woman,
  whose godhead was to be success, and to whom success would mean money
  and position.” She went to work in the Haynes-Cooper mail order house,
  where she made good, and in a few years was earning her $10,000. Then
  she had to choose between a still greater business success with
  Michael Fenger, former manager of the Haynes-Cooper concern, and a
  chance to develop her talent as a cartoonist and to marry Clarence
  Heyl, who had loved her for years, and who did not see the real values
  of life in terms of cash. Other characters are Father Fitzpatrick, the
  Catholic priest in Winnebago; Ella Monahan, buyer for the glove
  department of Haynes-Cooper; and Fanny’s brother, Theodore, the young
  violinist, to secure whose musical education Mrs Brandeis and her
  daughter had made such sacrifices. Emma McChesney also plays a very
  slight part in the story.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:95 D ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:341 N ‘17 70w

  “An element in the story which we are seldom allowed to forget is the
  racial one. With all the recent emphasis upon the Jew in literature,
  it is hard to call to mind a story which so fully developed those
  distinctly higher attributes of the Jew. ... Fanny Brandeis becomes,
  as we read the story, something more than an individual character. She
  becomes typical of that slaying of the ideal for the material which is
  going on day after day in thousands of Fanny Brandeises all over the
  United States.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 N 17 ‘17 1000w

         =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 50w

  “The most serious, extended and dignified of Miss Ferber’s books. Its
  first half, in particular, is quite the best work that the creator of
  Emma McChesney has done.”

       + =Dial= 63:463 N 8 ‘17 260w

         =Nation= 105:431 O 18 ‘17 400w

  “It is Molly Brandeis who, with the little town of Winnebago, Wis.,
  makes this story of ‘Fanny herself’ worth while.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:380 O 7 ‘17 800w

  “A notable advance in the author’s previous fiction work.”

       + =Outlook= 117:386 N 7 ‘17 70w

  “Yet there were here and there discerning readers who failed to find
  in them [the Emma McChesney stories] a fulfilment of the promise
  offered in ‘Dawn O’Hara.’ For this reason there should be much
  rejoicing over Miss Ferber’s new volume and second novel. And the fact
  that she has produced her effects out of practically the same
  well-worn, almost shabby stage properties of her earlier stories, is
  perhaps the most conclusive evidence that she has this time arisen
  from mere talent to something containing a lurking spark of what, for
  lack of a better word one may call genius.” F: T. Cooper

       + =Pub W= 93:208 Ja 19 ‘18 360w

  “Fanny’s mother is a striking creation, and her personality goes a
  long way toward lifting the story above the commonplace.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 450w


=FERGUSON, JOHN DE LANCEY.= American literature in Spain. (Columbia
univ. studies in English and comparative literature) *$1.50 (2c)
Columbia univ. press 810 17-263

  “Systematic study of the European reputations of American authors is a
  thing of recent date,” says the author. His purpose in this book is to
  make such a study with respect to Spain. The chief source of knowledge
  of American literature in Spain, he finds, has been France. There have
  been a few exceptions in which communication between the literatures
  of the two countries has been direct, notable among them the case of
  Irving, whose relations with Spain were personal. Another way of entry
  has been thru Spanish America. Chapters of the book are devoted to
  Washington Irving, James Fenimore Cooper, Edgar Allan Poe, Nathaniel
  Hawthorne, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Prescott, Emerson, Whitman. The
  bibliography is pronounced by the author the most important part of
  the work.

       + =Cath World= 105:107 Ap ‘17 350w

  “Regarding his work as a dissertation for the doctorate, one is
  disposed to be severe upon this contribution to scholarship: it deals
  chiefly with the exuberant and bombastic opinions of men whose words
  are without value; it is devoid of philosophical conclusions; further,
  we do not recall reading a dissertation whose body was so compactly
  made up of quotation.”

       — =Nation= 104:552 My 3 ‘17 400w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 18 ‘17 450w


=FERNALD, ROBERT HEYWOOD, and ORROK, GEORGE ALEXANDER.= Engineering of
power plants. il *$4 McGraw 621 16-24435

  “To the worthy treatises on power-plant engineering of Gebhardt,
  Hutton, Hubbard and others, these eminent authors have added an
  equally worthy volume. The new book is of great interest to
  industrial-plant owners and engineers, as the treatment is both by
  description and discussion and introduces specific data at every
  turn. All kinds of power are touched on, though steam and
  internal-combustion plants are naturally given the most space.”
  (Engin News-Rec) Of the two authors, the first is professor of
  dynamical engineering in the University of Pennsylvania, the second
  is a consulting engineer in New York city.

  “Useful in connection with Gebhardt (4th ed. Booklist 10:80 O ‘13) but
  will not replace that standard work.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:204 F ‘17

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:363 My 17 ‘17 70w

  “Is a happy medium of practice and theory that has been greatly
  lacking in books of this nature. ... Does not cover details of design
  or operation of the different parts of power plant equipment ... but
  considers the power plant as a whole from the standpoint of economical
  power production.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:451 My ‘17 50w (Reprinted from National
         Engineer p149 Ap ‘17)


=FERNAU, HERMANN.= Coming democracy. *$2 (2c) Button 940.91 17-24321

  Herr Fernau, a German democrat and pacifist and author of “Because I
  am a German,” published the original German version of his present
  book in Berne, Switzerland, under the title “Durch!... zur
  demokratie,” before the Russian revolution and the entry of the United
  States into the war. “The whole of this new book is devoted to the
  thesis that war now, as always, springs from a false and perverted
  form of internal government—a form of government to which he gives the
  name of a ‘dynasty’; the form under which the whole welfare of the
  people is subordinated to a small ruling caste or family; external war
  has always been and will always remain the chief weapon by which the
  dynasty maintains authority over its own people, and the only means by
  which it can be overthrown is defeat in war.” (The Times [London] Lit
  Sup) Herr Fernau preaches “Germany for the Germans,” and hopes for a
  defeat of the German arms as the best way of realizing this. “For what
  would happen if we Germans emerged victorious from this war? Our
  victory would only mean a strengthening of the dynastic principle of
  arbitrary power all along the line. Those of us who bewail the
  political backwardness of our Fatherland must realize that a ‘German’
  victory would prolong this backward condition for centuries. And not
  only Germany but the whole of Europe would have to suffer the
  consequences.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:123 Ja ‘18

  “He writes rather in anger than in sorrow; and, since he is a German,
  he would be more conciliating and convincing if he were less vehement
  and intemperate in his language.”

     – + =Ath= p517 O ‘17 250w

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

         =Bookm= 46:286 N ‘17 30w

  “The author clearly shows what indeed only a native German could show,
  the very strong differences and opposition between the German people
  and their rulers.”

       + =Cath World= 106:389 D ‘17 400w

  “He sincerely believes, in common with many Americans, that wars will
  cease with the disappearance of dynasties. If his book will enforce
  this illusion, its present value is questionable.” V. T. Thayer

       — =Dial= 63:515 N 22 ‘17 1050w

       + =Ind= 91:512 S 29 ‘17 130w

  “There is little that is new, in these bitter and even cynical pages,
  for the reader who has kept moderately well abreast of the anti-German
  literature of the war. Moreover, destructive criticism, especially
  when forged in great heat, may easily go too far. Indeed, a reading of
  the book suggests the extremely useful service that would be rendered
  if some one who knows Germany and its people as well as Mr Fernau does
  would point out just what the Germans could do, under their existing
  constitution, to bring about the régime of popular government which
  President Wilson, for example, believes to be a prerequisite to
  peace.”

     – + =Nation= 105:516 N 8 ‘17 330w

  “Herr Fernau has given us a most remarkable work, a most powerful and
  convincing analysis of past German history.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 S 23 ‘17 700w

  “‘The coming democracy’ is an astounding book, so unexpected is it to
  find such clear, keen insight into German conditions, such fearless
  presentation of facts, such merciless, sardonic, biting humor in
  statements coming from a German source.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:396 O 14 ‘17 1050w

       + =R of Rs= 56:550 N ‘17 90w

  “For the most part, Fernau’s logic is inexorable, but here and there
  he is guilty of a curious fallacy, as when, for instance, he holds
  dynasties exclusively responsible for the horrors of war, and also
  declares that the ideal of fighting for a fatherland perished with the
  Greeks.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:229 S 22 ‘17 1050w

  “Hermann Fernau is a true patriot, a passionate lover of the German
  people and of the old German fatherland. ... A considerable part of
  his book is given up to showing, as only a German brought up under the
  system can appreciate and show, how a small ambitious group of men
  may, by means of it, control absolutely the souls, minds, and bodies
  of a great nation. ... His analysis of the German constitution should
  be studied by those who still believe that the German people have any
  active share in the government of their country.”

       + =Spec= 119:217 S 1 ‘17 1850w

  “The book is one of the most important contributions to the literature
  of the war. The subject and matter, is, indeed, not new, but it is put
  in a new light. ... The translation is excellent.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p398 Ag 23 ‘17 2050w


=FERRI, ENRICO.= Criminal sociology. (Modern-criminal science ser.) *$5
Little 364 17-13931

  This book by “the first of living criminal sociologists,” is divided
  into four parts: Data of criminal anthropology; Data of criminal
  statistics; Positive theory of penal responsibility; Practical
  reforms. “Signor Ferri, who belongs to the so-called positive school
  of criminology, is a scientific socialist; moreover, he utterly
  demolishes the orthodox theory of freedom of the will. He regards all
  crime as a social disease which must be treated as every other disease
  is treated: clinically. Mild forms need only a change of diet or
  environment with very little if any medicine of the law; the
  contagious cases must be isolated as we isolate smallpox and
  diphtheria until there is a perfect cure or until it is proved that
  there is no cure possible. He recognizes that many criminals are
  insane, hopelessly insane. His own belief is that the penalty of death
  is advisable in the instances where an insane criminal is dangerous to
  society; but that is immaterial. Protection of the community in which
  criminals are found is the one vital thing.” (Boston Transcript) The
  book, first published in Italian in 1880, is translated by Joseph I.
  Kelly and John Lisle; edited by William W. Smithers; and has
  introductions by Charles A. Ellwood and Quincy A. Myers.

  “An important book for college and special reference libraries.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:75 D ‘17

  “This volume gives one of the best pictures of the changes through
  which criminal sociology has passed in the last half century.” W: B.
  Bailey

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:772 N ‘17 240w

  “No one today can make a pretense of familiarity with the modern
  sciences of criminology who has not read this work. If criticisms are
  to be made of the Italian school, they should be made on the basis of
  the ideas here set forth. The American institute has rendered a great
  service to English civilization by the translation of this book.” J.
  P. Lichtenberger

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:303 N ‘17 380w

  “It may be that the author of this volume is (as certainly he makes it
  abundantly evident that he thinks he is) the greatest living authority
  on criminology, but he is so rambunctiously controversial that he
  overloads his treatise with a vast mass of perfectly unnecessary
  arguments directed against every person who has ever dared to enter
  this great field. ... It is much to be desired that a greatly
  shortened summary of Signor Ferri’s constructive philosophy of crime
  might be extricated from his bulky volume, eliminating entirely the
  controversial portions and leaving only the pure gold of his admirable
  doctrine, based on his actual observations.” N. H. D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 8 ‘17 1150w

  “Enrico Ferri, is a positivist of the Italian school, who holds that
  crime is a biologic and social abnormality, produced in part at least
  by extra-social forces. ... His hatred of religion breathes on every
  page. ... We regret very much that the American institute cannot find
  American scholars to write on these topics objectively, instead of
  translating works nearly forty years old of anti-Christian bigots.”

       — =Cath World= 105:548 Jl ‘17 300w

  “This book still remains the most distinguished general contribution
  to the subject of criminology, though much of its data and some of its
  conclusions are now out of date.” L. L. Bernard

       + =Dial= 63:338 O 11 ‘17 1000w

       + =Lit D= 55:45 O 13 ‘17 500w

         =R of Rs= 56:440 O ‘17 70w

  “One of the most valuable volumes in a useful series. Ferri’s
  classification of criminals appears to us now somewhat overlapping and
  difficult to establish in given cases by practicable tests.” K. H.
  Claghorn

     + — =Survey= 39:47 O 13 ‘17 350w


=FETTER, FRANK ALBERT.= Economics. 2v v 2 *$1.75 Century 330

  =v 2= Modern economic problems.

  “A year ago there appeared a book by Professor Fetter dealing with the
  broader economic principles of value and distribution. This is now
  followed by a volume entirely devoted to the treatment of practical
  problems which furnish concrete illustrations and applications of the
  principles developed in the earlier volume. These are grouped under
  the following heads: Resources and economic organization; Money and
  prices; Banking and insurance; Tariff and taxation; Problems of the
  wage system, and Problems of industrial organization. The two books
  are intended to cover a complete course in economics, but they are so
  arranged that they may be used separately.”—R of Rs

  “The sentiment of the book is thoroughly modern and progressive, but
  the policies advocated are based upon scientific principles throughout
  rather than upon the popular reform policies of the hour. The wisdom
  of confining references to other works, and bibliographical material
  in general, to a separate manual, may be questioned. Many readers of
  the text will, presumably, never see the ‘Manual’ but still will need
  guidance to further study of those problems in which they are
  particularly interested.” W. I. K.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:234 My ‘17 230w

  “The reviewer knows of no other economic text book where the
  application of principles to practical problems is more successfully
  made. The result is that much merely confusing descriptive material is
  eliminated, and what remains is solid and stimulating. From this point
  of view, the book will probably make a strong appeal to the teacher,
  to the student and to the general reader.” E. E. Agger

       + =Educ R= 54:90 Je ‘17 780w

  “This work is, in a sense, a sequel to a book published by the same
  author a year ago. ... It will repay careful study because it dispels
  a number of popular fallacies and because, as has been said, it offers
  an excellent introduction to the more modern method of dealing with
  economic phenomena.”

       + =Ind= 89:507 Mr 19 ‘17 180w

  “Professor Fetter’s discussion is clear and well-informed, and his
  conclusions are temperate and suggestive.”

       + =Nation= 104:557 My 3 ‘17 100w

         =R of Rs= 55:220 F ‘17 100w


=FICKE, ARTHUR DAVISON.= April elegy. *$1.25 Kennerley 811 17-12484

  “An April elegy,” the poem that fills the first half of this book, is
  a verse narrative, telling the story of two lovers who fail ever to
  recapture the passionate beauty of their first meeting. The remainder
  of the book is taken up with three groups of poems: Seven Japanese
  paintings; Lyrics; Café sketches. Some of the poems have appeared in
  the Little Review, Poetry, Century, Midland, and other magazines.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:439 Jl ‘17

  “Unlike some of his fellow poets of the new school, however, Mr Ficke
  has a genuine gift of poetic expression; he has, too, a disciplined
  metrical skill that shows to advantage in his handling both of the
  ordered verse forms and of free verse; finally, he always has
  something to say and says it intelligibly. ... In all his work it is
  when Mr Ficke is most purely lyrical that he is most delightful.” R.
  T. T.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 18 ‘17 1000w

  “The poems mingle bald realism and free verse with imaginative and
  lyric beauty. In intellectual content, they are subtle and at times
  difficult of interpretation. Mr Ficke is best known from his ‘Sonnets
  of a portrait painter’ and as an interpreter of Japanese art.”

         =Cleveland= p74 Je ‘17 80w

  “The whole-hearted sentimentalism of ‘An April elegy’ will certainly
  recommend it to many, though scarcely to those readers whom Mr Ficke’s
  real powers and previous performance fit him to address.” Odell
  Shepard

     – + =Dial= 63:341 O 11 ‘17 380w

  “In eight sonnets of his new volume the proud and sombre note of Mr
  Ficke’s ‘Sonnets of a portrait-painter’ is audible in renewed vigor
  and beauty. Next in merit to these poems, I should place, I think,
  ‘Seven Japanese paintings.’ ‘An April elegy’ is equally unworthy of
  its associates and its parentage.” O. W. Firkins

   + – — =Nation= 105:245 S 6 ‘17 300w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:78 My ‘17 60w

  “Full of impassioned beauty, rich restraint, and romantic appeal.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:168 Ap 29 ‘17 300w

       + =R of Rs= 56:105 Jl ‘17 80w

  “Verily, this is a book for a diverse public or for a single reader
  with very catholic taste. Mr Ficke at times reaches the Pierian hights
  of the old school, and at times approaches the gutter depths of much
  of the new.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 450w


=FIELD, CLIFTON COUTARD.= Retail buying. (Harper’s retail business ser.)
*$1.25 (2½c) Harper 658 17-21788

  The author, recently instructor in merchandizing in the University of
  Wisconsin, has also held positions with Marshall Field & Co., of
  Chicago, and James McCreery & Co., of New York. His book aims to give
  “a simple and readable explanation of what is best to-day in buying
  principles and practice.” (Editor’s introd.) Contents: The merchant as
  a buyer; Merchandise; Buying practice; Stock systems.

  “A book list of descriptive material issued by manufacturers will be
  suggestive to librarians who wish to build up a working trade
  collection.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:45 N ‘17

         =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 20w

  “Gives many convenient hints as to kinds and qualities of commodities,
  especially in the clothing trades.”

       + =Ind= 91:441 S 15 ‘17 60w

  “The style is matter of fact, almost laconic. There is an element of
  stiffness and bluntness in it that appears to arise from lack of
  practice in writing. The discussion, however, is clear and usually
  simple. The real contribution in this book is to be found in part 3,
  entitled ‘Buying practice.’ It is just here that an undeveloped field
  was entered.” C. S. Duncan

     + — =J Pol Econ= 25:1053 D ‘17 1200w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:758 N ‘17 40w

  “Instructive reading for any one connected with retail buying or
  selling.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 90w


=FIELD, LOUISE MAUNSELL.= Little gods laugh. il *$1.40 (2c) Little
17-23975

  In this story of New York society Miss Field has given us a picture of
  the development of a high-minded young woman of good family, who, bred
  to position and ease, finds herself obliged to make her own way in the
  world. The refreshing side of the story is in its normality. Nita
  Wynne, through the interest of friends, uses and develops her natural
  abilities and though she, of course, loses leisure, she does not in
  any way lose her proper position. But her experiences do teach her to
  view life whole rather than from the narrow angle of her girlhood.

  “The story is told with dignity and charm.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 O 31 ‘17 150w

         =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 70w

  “There is some clever characterization, but that is not a sufficient
  excuse for the addition of one more novel to the already overlong list
  of American mediocrities.”

     – + =Dial= 63:354 O 11 ‘17 50w

  “It is a real achievement of the author that Nita is never a prig. In
  her most intolerant moments there is something likeable, and very
  human, about her. The characters and incidents of the book are
  interesting and its theme is thoroughly wholesome and sane.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:333 S 9 ‘17 450w


Fifes and drums; a collection of poems of America at war. (Vigilantes
books) *$1 Doran 811.08 17-18155

  “The Vigilantes’ headquarters are in New York, its members are
  authors, artists and other professional workers, and its purposes are
  thus described: ‘To arouse the country to a realization of the
  importance of the problems confronting the American people. To awaken
  and cultivate in the youth of the country a sense of public service
  and an intelligent interest in citizenship and national problems. To
  work vigorously for preparedness, mental, moral, and physical.’”
  (Boston Transcript) “These poems, written under the immediate stress
  of great events by the Vigilantes, furnish a striking record of the
  emotional reactions of the American people during the fortnight
  preceding and the six weeks following the declaration of war.”
  (Foreword) Some of the contributors are Amelia Josephine Burr, Don
  Marquis, Clinton Scollard, Wallace Irwin, Edith M. Thomas, George E.
  Woodberry, Cale Young Rice, Theodosia Garrison, Percy MacKaye and
  Hermann Hagedorn.

  “Their literary excellence is very high. It would be easy to forgive
  much under the circumstances, but there is nothing to forgive. ... To
  single out a single poem in any collection as superlatively the best
  is usually futile and an invitation to violent argument, but we have
  no reluctance to place Miss Garrison’s ‘April 2nd’ at the head.” E. F.
  E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 1000w

  “The whole anthology carries a glowing atmosphere of enthusiasm, every
  page breathing the wide range of high human emotion which is brought
  into being during the stress of wartime.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:287 Ag 5 ‘17 260w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 180w


=FIGGIS, JOHN NEVILLE.= Some defects in English religion, and other
sermons. (Handbooks of Catholic faith and practice) *$1 (3½c) Young ch.
252

  The defects in English religion to which the author devotes the first
  four sermons in this book are Sentimentalism, Legalism, Cowardice, and
  Complacency. This series of sermons was preached in Grosvenor chapel,
  Mayfair, in August, 1916. Among the other sermons in the volume is a
  group on The mysteries of love, preached as a Lenten series.

  “A master of the philosophic ideas of history, and equally at home
  with Bernard Shaw or Nietzsche and the significant movements of today
  in letters, Dr Figgis is a preacher of an unusual sort.”

       + =Sat R= 123:260 Mr 17 ‘17 370w


=FIGGIS, JOHN NEVILLE.= Will to freedom; or, The gospel of Nietzsche and
the gospel of Christ. *$1.25 Scribner 193 17-15172

  “Dr Figgis, who is a member of the Community of the Resurrection, a
  religious order of the Church of England, was invited to deliver the
  Gov. Bross lectures at Lake Forest university in Illinois in 1915, and
  made the German philosopher his subject.” (Springf’d Republican) “In
  the lectures he aims at correcting some prevalent misconceptions as to
  Nietzsche and his influence in Germany. The six lectures deal in turn
  with ‘Nietzsche the man,’ ‘The gospel of Nietzsche,’ ‘Nietzsche and
  Christianity,’ ‘Nietzsche’s originality,’ ‘The charm of Nietzsche,’
  and ‘The danger and the significance of Nietzsche.’ In particular Dr
  Figgis insists that, unlike Stirner, Nietzsche did not teach egotism,
  but rather a religion of valour involving the sacrifice of immediate
  desire to an ideal of nobility; egotism being, indeed, in direct
  opposition to some of Nietzche’s most important principles, such as
  natural asceticism, the sacrifice of ages in order to speed the
  superman, the raising of the type of man. But while endeavouring to
  set before us a reconsideration of much of Nietzsche’s position in a
  more favourable light than the controversialists of recent years
  generally allow, Dr Figgis protests equally against those who argue
  that because Nietzsche in his later years held and loudly expressed
  anti-Russian views therefore modern Germany was not deeply influenced
  by him.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

  Reviewed by W. C. A. Wallar

         =Am J Theol= 22:150 Ja ‘18 650w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:39 N ‘17

       + =Ath= p462 S ‘17 180w

  “There may be, however, some doubt whether many who call themselves
  Christian would accept Dr Figgis’s statement that they ‘assert the
  will to freedom.’ That is the weakness of the book; for it is only too
  easy to make out that anything that is true or good is Christian.”

     + — =Ath= p508 O ‘17 550w

  “For the reader who has not time for the writings of Nietzsche but who
  would like to know what it is all about, this is the book.”

       + =Bib World= 50:254 O ‘17 700w

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

       + =Bookm= 46:290 N ‘17 30w

       + =Cleveland= p105 S ‘17 50w

  “The discussion is pitched in a key so much lower than Nietzsche’s own
  writing, and is conducted in such obvious and pedestrian terms that
  the many quotations blaze across the page with a heat that seems
  almost to shrivel the unfortunate commentator. What Dr Figgis has done
  here is to make the common mistake of confusing a diagnosis with an
  ethics. The common mind seems unable to keep from confounding
  Nietzsche’s analysis of what is with his ideal of what ought to
  be. ... The book must be credited, however, with what is perhaps the
  best short sketch of Nietzsche’s life to be found in English.”
  Randolph Bourne

     – + =Dial= 63:389 O 25 ‘17 1200w

  “A book of real weight and of philosophic power.”

       + =Educ R= 54:528 D ‘17 100w

  “The relation of Nietzsche to contemporary thought and particularly to
  Christianity, as well as to the prevailing ideals in Germany, is well
  brought out in Dr Figgis’ book.”

       + =Ind= 92:109 O 13 ‘17 380w

  “His study of Nietzsche is able, fresh and sympathetic. Perhaps
  because he is under Nietzsche’s charm, he does not quite come to grips
  with his subject.” M. J.

     + — =Int J Ethics= 28:287 Ja ‘18 280w

  “We can not praise too highly this exposition. It is unbiased, fair,
  and square. No debatable characterization of the subject lacks chapter
  and verse from Nietzsche’s writings.”

       + =Lit D= 55:39 S 15 ‘17 430w

  “The title gives a sufficient intimation of Dr Figgis’s purpose, but
  one could wish that he had followed this purpose a little more
  tenaciously. As a matter of fact, the best part of the book is the
  exposition of Nietzsche’s philosophy before the author enters upon his
  critical comparison.”

       + =Nation= 105:323 S 20 ‘17 350w

  “It would be difficult for any Christian reviewer to excel Dr Figgis
  in combining just criticism of an iconoclastic atheist with so
  impartial an appreciation of his merits.”

       + =Outlook= 117:260 O 17 ‘17 160w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:699 O ‘17 20w

         =Pratt= p6 O ‘17

  “Dr Figgis’s books have an unusual circulation, which they deserve.
  Christianity has few apologists of equal power, for he is not only
  learned in divinity, he is also an historian and a philosopher who
  keeps in touch with the spirit of his time. He knows the latest book
  of Mr Bernard Shaw as well as of the Modernists. ... Nietzsche is much
  more talked about than read, and Dr Figgis does well in adding to his
  lectures typical specimens of his writings and the views of the best
  critics on them.”

       + =Sat R= 124:188 S 8 ‘17 1300w

  “The analysis Dr Figgis offers in these lectures is at once the most
  painstaking and the most convincing we have seen.”

       + =Spec= 119:270 S 15 ‘17 1450w

  “Dr Figgis approaches his subject fairly and judiciously, though
  hardly with the freedom from preoccupation which is essential to a
  complete comprehension of Nietzsche. ... He devotes much space to the
  progress of Nietzschian ideas in modern German.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 650w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p383 Ag 9 ‘17 170w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p388 Ag 16 ‘17 1450w


=FILLEBROWN, CHARLES BOWDOIN.= Principles of natural taxation; showing
the origin and progress of plans for the payment of all public expenses
from economic rent. il $1.50 McClurg 336.2 17-5160

  Of part 1 of this book Mr Fillebrown is compiler; of part 2, author.
  Part 1 is a compilation, the object of which is “to trace the
  metamorphosis of the land question into the rent question; of the
  equal right to land into the joint right to the rent of land, etc.”
  The authors represented in this progression are, Adam Smith, John
  Stuart Mill, Patrick Edward Dove, Edwin Burgess, Sir John Macdonell,
  Henry George, Rev Edward McGlynn and Thomas G. Shearman. For each of
  these a biographical sketch with an estimate of the man’s importance
  to the single tax movement is provided. Part 2 has chapters on: A
  burdenless tax; Land; Taxation and housing, etc. The preface says,
  “While this volume is a revision and enlargement of ‘A single tax
  handbook for 1913,’ which it was thought might reappear at intervals,
  it is issued with the idea of permanence, as representing the best
  authorities, early and late, upon the development of the idea.”

  “The book will prove a very useful single-tax document, and Mr
  Fillebrown has performed a real service to economists in calling
  attention to the need for a redistribution of emphasis in discussing
  certain aspects of the single tax. As is perhaps to be expected, where
  the material has been gathered from scattered sources, an occasional
  slip in statement has crept in.” R. M. Haig

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:894 D ‘17 350w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:41 N ‘17

         =Ann Am Acad= 73:236 S ‘17 240w

  “For a full exposition of the subject, we have seen few books equal to
  Mr Fillebrown’s latest effort.” Alexander MacKendrick

       + =Masses= 9:32 S ‘17 1050w

  “The second part of Mr Fillebrown’s book contains the kind of polemic
  for the single tax with which readers of his former publications, and
  of single-tax propaganda generally, are familiar. There is much in it
  that is plausible, much even that is sound; but there is also a great
  admixture of shallow assumption as well as an ignoring of vital
  difficulties.”

     + — =Nation= 104:656 My 31 ‘17 1000w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:58 Ap ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:169 Je ‘17 30w

  “Particularly interesting chapters are ‘The professors and the single
  tax,’ disclosing incidentally how much the professors are like the man
  in the street in missing the essential point of the doctrine, and ‘A
  catechism of natural taxation,’ carefully revised by the best
  authorities to meet the inquirer’s questions with the best possible
  answers.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p11 Ja 27 ‘18 380w


=FILSINGER, ERNST B.= Exporting to Latin America; with a foreword by Leo
S. Rowe. *$3 Appleton 382 16-17440

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “Two qualities in Mr Filsinger’s book stand out as noteworthy: it is
  specific and it is comprehensive. When to this statement I add that it
  is distinctly a business man’s book, written by a business man who
  still has the student’s knack of covering a subject fully and
  expressing himself clearly, it may easily be understood that this is
  one of the best publications on Latin America that has been placed on
  the American market. ... Among the many writers on Latin American
  trade Mr Filsinger seems to be almost the discoverer of the effective
  work being done by the Bureau of foreign and domestic commerce, to
  which he devotes considerable, but by no means excessive, space. ...
  It would certainly pay every prospective exporter to have a copy not
  in his library but on his desk for constant reference and study.” E.
  E. Pratt

 *     + =Am Econ R= 7:122 Mr ‘17 1050w

  “An especially interesting chapter is that on Export commission houses
  and agents. ... Mr Filsinger’s outline of the function of the export
  commission house is followed with the chapter on Traveling salesmen,
  general and local agents, which is of particular interest to
  manufacturers desiring to market their product by direct
  representation overseas. This includes suggestions as to obtaining
  foreign agents by correspondence. ... This book is a valuable addition
  to a quite substantial bibliography developed by the painstaking work
  of Hough, Aughinbaugh and other students of Latin-American trade
  problems.” R. H. Patchin

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:227 My ‘17 650w

  “Of unusual practical value is the appendix. This contains, besides
  other important information, a detailed description of each of the
  Latin American countries, including language, newspapers, currency,
  with American equivalents, weights and measures, postage, location,
  area, and physical characteristics, population, purchasing power,
  railways and transportation, resources, industries, mines, principal
  cities, best methods of canvassing the country and the articles most
  needed. In another part of the appendix he gives the typical
  advertising rates in Latin American export journals, the principal
  directories of the Latin American republics, and the principal banks
  of the large cities.”

       + =Nation= 104:369 Mr 29 ‘17 1350w

  “Manufacturers and merchants anxious to discover and improve foreign
  trade opportunities will find of particular interest the chapters on
  Latin-American correspondence, Banking documents, Credits, Catalogues
  and quotations, Parcel post and mail order business, but the subjects
  covered extend to practically all the questions that business men are
  compelled to ask in advertising new lines.”

       + =New Repub= 11:167 Je 9 ‘17 400w

  “The work of a man who is president of the Filsinger-Boette shoe
  company and consul of Costa Rica and Ecuador in St Louis, and who was
  formerly president and commissioner to Latin-America of the
  Latin-American foreign trade association. Incidentally Mr Filsinger is
  the husband of Sara Teasdale, the poet. ... The book is plainly the
  most valuable of its kind that has yet been published.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 23 ‘17 200w


=FINCK, HENRY THEOPHILUS.= Richard Strauss; the man and his works. il
*$2.50 (3c) Little 17-26876

  A carefully prepared life of the first great realist in music who “has
  done for programme music what Wagner did for the opera.” Besides the
  story of Strauss’s life and a number of reliable anecdotes, there is
  an estimate of his place in the history of music, and a full
  description, with critical comments, of his more important
  compositions including all the tone poems and operas which have been
  launched with so much interest and success. A sympathetic appreciation
  of “Richard Strauss: seer and idealist” is contributed by Percy
  Grainger who sees the inborn effortless greatness of a man who is a
  genius of the purely inspirational order.

  “Stimulating to musicians who do understand Strauss; and, for mere
  bewildered music lovers who do not, it will serve to foster at least
  an ‘intelligent ignorance.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:83 D ‘17

  “This is a useful survey of the external facts touching the life and
  musical compositions of Richard Strauss. But it does not, on the
  whole, suggest that it has been a labor of love. Mr Finck makes it
  abundantly clear that his reason for writing the book was rather the
  fact that Strauss is considered one of the greatest, if not the
  greatest, of living composers than that he himself considers him to be
  such. And the general tone of Mr Finck’s book is blasé, sometimes
  yawningly so.” E: Sapir

   + – — =Dial= 63:584 D 6 ‘17 1900w

  “Not only the biggest but also the most interesting and the most
  valuable work on this composer yet produced in English. If the book
  contained only this sort of intensely personal dislike, paraded as an
  attempt to determine Strauss’s place in the history of music, it would
  be of small worth. But it contains a deal of more profitable matter.”

     + — =Ind= 92:385 N 24 ‘17 350w

       + =Lit D= 55:42 D 8 ‘17 240w

  “It is a big book in more senses than one. ... To be sure, all the
  thrice-familiar Finckian critical stigmata are present; his Wagner
  worship and the clamorous praise of Rubinstein, Grieg, Paderewski,
  Liszt, MacDowell, and Percy Grainger. ... Mr Finck’s musical
  enthusiasms are always exhilarating, and while his study of Strauss is
  not as significant as his ‘Life of Wagner’—the best biography in
  English—we must remember the difference in the career of the two men.
  Wagner’s life, like his music, was dramatic. The life thus far of
  Strauss has been almost commonplace.” J. G. Huneker

     + — =Nation= 105:462 O 25 ‘17 1550w

  “This biography of Strauss the composer has the quality of
  sprightliness to an exceptional degree—partly, no doubt, because of
  its subject.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:551 N ‘17 150w


=FINDLATER, MARY, and FINDLATER, JANE HELEN.= Seen and heard before and
after 1914. *$1.50 Dutton 17-26479

  “There are six stories in this book—the stories of Scottish life that
  the Misses Findlater know so well how to tell—and the coming of the
  war divides them square in half. This in itself gives the book added
  value as a picture of the conflict’s far reactions. For the war came
  to the Scotch villages of the Highlands and changed the face of life
  for the village folk. And the things that were ‘seen and heard’ after
  Aug. 1, 1914, were very different from the Highland happenings of the
  hills and villages in the months before. ... The first story is of the
  wandering tinkers of the Highlands, and of the claim of their gypsy
  life upon all the tinker ‘clan.’ ... The second story is a strange bit
  of Highland pathos. ‘When Johnny comes marching home’ is a human
  little tale of a village ne’er-do-well, who lost his chance of
  manhood, but the second war story is full of whimsical humor and
  sweetness. Jane Findlater has written all the tales but one—the last,
  ‘Real estate,’ longer than most of the others, and rich in human
  understanding and charm.”—N Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:449 Jl ‘17

  “The stories are written with the same feeling for words and
  situations which has previously distinguished the work of these two
  authors. They show life within a very narrow radius, but the stamp of
  truth is on all they write.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 2 ‘17 1250w

       + =Dial= 62:527 Je 14 ‘17 150w

       + =Ind= 91:353 S 1 ‘17 60w

  “Jane Findlater’s writing has the charm of an older time. ... What we
  really get in ‘The little tinker’ is more like the scene of a Dutch
  master, incident and atmosphere and character projected upon a tiny
  canvas, with sympathy but without sentimentalism. The stories written
  after the war are less happy.”

       + =Nation= 104:632 My 24 ‘17 180w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:74 My ‘17 30w

  “A lovable, human book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:186 My 13 ‘17 300w

       + =Spec= 118:175 F 10 ‘17 1600w

  “As always with these writers, it is not the story in itself but the
  shrewd and intuitive handling of its elements which gives marked
  individuality to the work.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p572 N 30 ‘16 570w


=FIRTH, JOHN BENJAMIN.= Highways and byways in Nottinghamshire.
(Highways and byways ser.) il *$2 Macmillan 914.2 (Eng ed 17-7460)

  “To an excellent series this is a most readable addition. Mr Firth
  writes well and has accumulated a mass of curious information. The
  chapters on Nottingham and Newark and the parts they played on
  opposite sides in the civil war, the account of Southwell and its
  ancient minster, the elaborate description of the dukeries—Welbeck,
  Clumber, and Thoresby, all set in the remains of Sherwood Forest—are
  the chief features. Robin Hood is cautiously handled. Byron in poverty
  at Southwell and in transient splendour at Newstead is another
  picturesque figure.”—Spec

  “Gives fewer descriptions of scenery than other books in this series.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:397 Je ‘17

       + =Dial= 62:531 Je 14 ‘17 130w

  “The book is crammed with information, yet it is written with an ease
  and grace that any novelist might envy.”

       + =Nation= 104:373 Mr 29 ‘17 190w

  “The book is profusely and beautifully illustrated, and the
  large-scale maps will be invaluable to the explorer of the byways of
  Nottinghamshire.”

       + =Nature= 99:4 Mr 1 ‘17 300w

  “Especially interesting in its relation to several of the best-known
  families of England.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:556 My ‘17 40w

  “There has scarcely been a better book in the series, and one can
  often dip into his ‘Nottinghamshire’ with pleasure and relief. It is a
  book to enjoy, and the hours given to it will not be wasted. Mr
  Griggs’s illustrations are often delightful too. Some of his drawings
  of domestic architecture—notably of old houses in the city of
  Nottingham—are very nearly as good as Prout, and we much like his
  Southwell minster, west front.”

       + =Sat R= 123:sup10 Mr 31 ‘17 150w

         =Spec= 118:141 F 3 ‘17 140w

  “For Americans no other town of Nottinghamshire can have so great
  appeal as Scrooby. For Scrooby was the home of William Brewster, the
  Pilgrim father, and the little band of Brownists met usually at
  Brewster’s house. ... Mr Firth’s spirited pen traces the features of
  Nottinghamshire towns, and revives much entertaining local history.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 25 ‘17 1350w

  “A book like this brings strongly home to the reader the tides of
  change which have helped to mould the most placid English landscapes.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p53 F 1 ‘17 1300w


=FISH, ADA Z.= American Red cross text-book on home dietetics. il *$1
Blakiston 641.5 17-6350

  “The author of ‘Home dietetics’ has emphasized the means of avoiding
  illness rather than the ways of catering to it. She has suggested very
  concisely the important principles involved in the cooking of food,
  and so far as possible has illustrated these principles by directions
  for the preparation of common articles of diet.”—Survey

         =A L A Bkl= 13:336 My ‘17

  “A unique and valuable feature of the book is the emphasis placed on
  the importance of hygiene which should be observed in the handling of
  food to prevent the spread of disease.” L. H. G.

       + =Survey= 38:75 Ap 21 ‘17 120w


=FISHER, BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.= Francis Thompson; essays. il $1 (15c)
Franklin pub. co., Canton, O. 821 17-17070

  A short sketch of the life and an appreciation of the poetry of a rare
  spirit whose genius is the nacre covering the grains of hardship as a
  pearl was produced for poetry. While after years were kinder to him
  than the early period of cruel hardship, he was broken in health and
  died at the age of forty-eight. The late Benjamin Fisher was a
  sympathetic student of Thompson’s poetry and hoped thru his essays to
  interest many in the clear quality of Thompson’s poetical gifts.

  “Students of Francis Thompson’s poetry will find interest in this
  attractively bound little book.”

       + =Dial= 63:409 O 25 ‘17 170w

  “Of flowery and figurative language, this tiny book possesses real
  critical grasp, and has itself real beauties of phrase that make us
  curious to see that earlier work, ‘Life harmonies,’ praised of Alice
  Meynell.”

       + =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 50w


=FISHER, DOROTHEA FRANCES (CANFIELD) (MRS JOHN REDWOOD FISHER).=
Understood Betsy. il *$1.30 (3c) Holt 17-23050

  “Betsy has been brought up from infancy by her Aunt Frances, a maiden
  lady past her first youth who has deluged the child with love and
  anxiety and determination to ‘understand’ her. And so at the age of
  nine she has been ‘understood’ into an anaemic, morbid, neurotic,
  egotistic condition that saps her rightful enjoyment of childhood and
  undermines the promise of useful womanhood. ... A sudden upheaval in
  Aunt Frances’s family makes it necessary for Betsy to be sent along to
  relatives who live on a farm in Vermont. And there life takes on a
  very different complexion. Nobody tries to ‘understand’ her, nobody
  pays attention to any of the things that caused Aunt Frances to cuddle
  and care for her as if she were an infant. Instead, they put
  responsibilities upon her for herself and others, expect her to amuse
  herself and in general to be an upstanding, self-reliant little
  girl.”—N Y Times

  “Published in St Nicholas.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:26 O ‘17

  “The one girls’ story of the season which seems to have the qualities
  that make for permanence—Miss Alcott’s qualities, say, of warm
  feeling, golden common sense, and ease and simplicity of style.” J:
  Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:499 D ‘17 120w

  “Betsy is the concrete example of so much that Mrs Fisher has written
  on child training, that we are obliged once again to remark the skill
  with which a true story teller can reveal her morals while she is
  telling a thoroughly interesting story.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 1250w

  “The book is intended primarily for children, but Mrs Fisher with her
  usual insight has touched upon a modern tendency in education with an
  irony that will be appreciated by their elders.”

       + =Dial= 63:403 O 25 ‘17 100w

       + =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 70w

  “It is a story for a child—or for the child-lover with many
  suggestions in child-development and training quite suited to a
  teacher.”

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 29 ‘17 210w

  “Dorothy Canfield is always extraordinarily likable, even if she has
  grown troublingly wistful, and doubtful about cities. ... Her
  wistfulness for pioneer conditions saps a necessary confidence in
  cities in a way her Montessori mother did not. But is it, after all, a
  book for children? Would it not be, of itself, just a little bit of an
  Aunt Frances?”

       + =New Repub= 12:166 S 8 ‘17 300w

  “It has ostensibly been written for children, but we should be sorry
  for any adult who could not enjoy it. ... As a gift to a little nine
  or ten year old girl who reads easily, we cannot recommend anything
  more charming and worth while than ‘Understood Betsy.’” M. G. S.

     + + =N Y Call= p15 S 30 ‘17 340w

  “This story about a little girl will be read with pleasure by people
  who are small and young, while people who are larger and older also
  will read it with pleasure combined, if they have humor and sense,
  with profit. ... The scene is that section of New England where Mrs
  Fisher has made her home for a number of years, and the people are the
  same sturdy Vermonters whom she has put into her short stories about
  ‘Hillsboro people.’ She interprets the New England character with
  truth and verve.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:294 Ag 12 ‘17 800w

  “A charming and entertaining little story.”

       + =Outlook= 117:26 S 5 ‘17 170w

  “As a story pure and simple, it is delightful, a mine of fun, wisdom
  and common sense.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:557 N ‘17 150w

  “A most delightful narrative. The reader feels an impulsive affection
  for Aunt Abigail, Uncle Henry and Cousin Ann.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 230w


=FISHER, GEORGE JOHN, and BERRY, ELMER.= Physical effects of smoking;
preliminary experimental studies. *$1 Assn. press 613 17-12837

  Dr Fisher is connected with the International committee of the Y. M.
  C. A., and Professor Berry is professor of physiology in the
  International Y. M. C. A. college at Springfield, Mass. Professor
  Berry states that “the material here brought together represents an
  effort to secure definite experimental data regarding the effects of
  smoking,” that the work, covering researches conducted 1914-16, has
  been done as graduation theses under his direction, and that it is
  presented as “entirely preliminary and tentative.” The subjects were
  “normal, healthy, athletic fellows between the ages of twenty-one and
  twenty-five.” The experimenters returned results remarkable for their
  uniformity and general consistency, showing that smoking raises the
  heart rate and blood pressure, that it markedly delays the return of
  the heart rate to normal after exercise, and that it impairs the
  neuro-muscular control as indicated by delicate finger exercises and
  gross muscular coordinations. There is a bibliography of eight pages.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:433 Jl ‘17

  “With rare good judgment the authors refrain from conclusions, and
  rest their case upon a simple statement of recorded facts, not
  claiming infallibility but presenting their results so that the reader
  arrives at his own conclusions. The book is an excellent short story
  to put into the hands of school teachers and high-school boys.” Haven
  Emerson, M.D.

       + =Survey= 39:370 D 29 ‘17 400w


=FISHER, MARY.= The Treloars. *$1.35 (1c) Crowell 17-13953

  “The scene is California. The Treloars, who live in the country near
  Berkeley, are a family of high cultivation and of warm humanity. The
  father is a brilliant man who has ceased to be a parson because he can
  no longer conform to the creed of the church. ... Hard by lives his
  friend, who is also a detached philosopher—of another school. Their
  chief recreation is in controversy. Treloar has three grown children.
  One of the daughters, Catherine, has brains enough only for the hard
  and selfish part of the modern feminist practice. Margaret, the other,
  is a woman of intellect and character. Her brother Dick holds the
  centre of her stage, and responds to her devotion. We meet her at the
  moment when Dick is about to try his fledgling wings at journalism. In
  the city he presently meets an enchantress, an actress of none too
  savoury past. The wrecking of his sister’s happiness and a luckless
  marriage are the result. He is released before the total crippling of
  his life, and after an illuminating experience [at] the war-front,
  achieves a real union with the girl he should have married in the
  first place; to Margaret also the chances of war have brought a
  fitting mate.”—Bookm

  “A book of scope and power by a hand fresh at story-making. Readers
  who like swift action may find the conduct of the narrative too
  leisurely. By others, the digressions and discussions which fill so
  many of these pages may be regarded as the cream of the book.” H. W.
  Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:209 O ‘17 370w

  “What a godsend the war has been to lazy or unimaginative novelists!
  With it they can cut every Gordian knot.”

       — =Dial= 63:463 N 8 ‘17 140w

  “The book’s fault is talk, tho much of it is Interesting enough and
  clever. But there is too much of it.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:39 O 27 ‘17 240w

  “A book of uncommon flavor: to begin with, its style instead of
  falling in with modern fashions of briskness or nonchalance, takes its
  own time and goes its own way, with a faint suggestiveness, perhaps,
  of George Eliot rather than any later writer. It is the medium of an
  intelligence both sympathetic and scholarly, interpreting character in
  the light of present conditions.”

       + =Nation= 105:371 O 4 ‘17 350w

  “‘The Treloars’ belongs to a class of novels written not because the
  author has a story to tell, but because he has views to ventilate,
  theories to expound, a fund of information of which to disburden
  himself. ... Although well written, showing wide reading, and
  expressing forcible opinions upon nearly all the subjects now
  agitating the public mind, ‘The Treloars’ does not take hold of the
  reader. The characters seem to have been created to hold long
  conversations upon every conceivable topic, ... while certain of the
  situations are almost amusing in their improbability.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:266 Jl 15 ‘17 200w


=FISK, EUGENE LYMAN.= Alcohol. *$1 Funk 178 17-20843

  “A non-scientific discussion for the general reader of the deleterious
  effect of alcohol. Divided into three parts, it discusses its relation
  to life insurance, to physiology, and human efficiency. Supplementary
  notes give views of Great Britain, Russia and France and the attitude
  of the American medical profession.” (A L A Bkl) The contents appeared
  first in the form of articles in the Atlantic Monthly.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:73 D ‘17

  “Modest and yet most important volume. It would be a good thing for
  America and the world if his pages could be carried in the knapsack of
  every soldier, at home and abroad, and studied by every citizen of our
  country.”

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 1 ‘17 280w

  “It is too slight, too dogmatic, and too evidently written to maintain
  a theory.”

       — =Outlook= 117:285 O 24 ‘17 60w


=FISKE, MINNIE MADDERN (MRS HARRISON GREY FISKE).= Mrs Fiske; her views
on actors, acting, and the problems of production; recorded by Alexander
Woolcott. il *$2 (6c) Century 792 17-29247

  Witty, spontaneous, unconventional bits of theatre wisdom dropped over
  the tea cups by one of the foremost producers, directors and actresses
  of the present day and recorded out of the long memory of the dramatic
  critic of the New York Times. The seven chapters set forth Mrs Fiske’s
  theory of the theatre,—a theory which has been evolving thru years of
  honest, sincere progress towards the goal which the world has seen her
  brilliantly achieve. Deductions are interpolated with interesting
  comment on the portrayal of certain of her well known rôles. The book
  is full of inspiration and food for thought and study for young
  actors, while for the theatre goer who never misses a Fiske play it
  will serve as a review of her successes.

  “Expensive for its value to the average library.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:118 Ja ‘18

  “Mr Woolcott is an adept prompter; he usually sets the scene
  piquantly; fills the pauses neatly; gives Mrs Fiske her head, as it
  were, while his memory sits elastic in the saddle; and generally
  conducts himself as a beaming Boswell, save for a tendency to the
  simpering and airy phrases of literary and artistic youth at tea in
  the college across the Charles. As for Mrs Fiske herself, she courses
  through the conversations like Delilah in Milton’s chorus, ‘bedecked,
  ornate, and gay.’”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p12 O 24 ‘17 2800w

  “No one could doubt the authenticity of these repeated conversations,
  for they are so consistent with her life and seem so possessed of her
  personality as to make one see the lift of her head, the whimsical
  light in her eye, and visualize the touch and gesture of her
  personality.”

       + =Lit D= 55:50 D 1 ‘17 170w

  “Woolcott expresses the hope that some day Mrs Fiske will write her
  own book. It is here seconded, for it must be admitted that there is a
  feeling, especially in the opening chapters, that just when the
  actress is about to say something really vital, the writer interrupts
  her train of thought.” L: Gardy

     + — =NY Call= p15 D 29 ‘17 580w

  “The book is full of interesting exposition, nuggets of wisdom,
  conclusions clearly thought out and forcibly presented. No one who is
  in the least interested in the theatre can fail to find the book
  fascinating and stimulating.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:578 D 30 ‘17 360w

       + =R of Rs= 57:108 Ja ‘18 110w

  “The public needs not be told that Mrs Fiske is no ordinary theatrical
  celebrity, and there will be general expectation that a book of her
  views, if authentically reproduced, will be an individual and
  entertaining book. It is.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 550w


=FITCH, GEORGE.= Twenty-four; where I took them and what they did to me.
il *$1.25 (5c) Little 17-1930

  George Fitch once went to Europe with twenty-four girls, winners in a
  newspaper circulation contest, in his charge. As he puts it, “Some
  reporters go to war, some have to jump out of balloons in patent
  parachutes, and some have to take parties of young and beautiful girls
  to Europe. It’s all in the game.” In this book he has given his own
  humorous version of the expedition.

  “Appeared in Ladies’ Home Journal.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:315 Ap ‘17

  “As a ‘cheer-up’ story to amuse girls of sixteen, we recommend the
  book heartily. For older readers it is a little too thin, and the
  situation is a bit overworked. ... The end drags.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 28 ‘17 120w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:24 F ‘17

  “Very amusing.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:13 Ja 14 ‘17 300w

  “The story emphasizes the loss sustained in the death of the kindly
  humorist.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 25 ‘17 200w


=FITZMAURICE, GEORGE.= Five plays. *$1.25 Little 822 (Eng ed 15-5685)

  “‘Five plays,’ by George Fitzmaurice, the Irish folk-dramatist, carry
  one into the midst of life in the Irish countryside. They are ‘The
  pie-dish,’ the story of an old Irishman who worked twenty years
  molding a fine pie dish and died cursing God because he wouldn’t let
  him live long enough to finish it; ‘The country dressmaker,’ ‘The
  magic glasses,’ ‘The dandy dolls,’ and a strong play, ‘The
  moonlighter,’ which pictures the peculiar conditions that nurture
  violence and revolutions in Ireland. The scene is the period of the
  agrarian revolt. Peter Guerin, the leading character, is a splendid
  type of an old Fenian.” (R of Rs) The book was first published by
  Maunsel (London and Dublin) in 1914.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:49 N ‘17

  “Mr Fitzmaurice is a connecting link between the earlier and the later
  writers of the Irish dramatic movement. In his technique, he is a
  contemporary Irish dramatist; in his simpler point of view and freer
  imagination, he is a true son of the pioneers. His vivid dialogue and
  character-drawing surpass most contemporary work. For sheer beauty,
  either of thought or expression, he does not equal his predecessors.
  As a realist, he writes in the modern vein; as a fantast, in the
  spirit of the earlier men. ... These ‘Five plays’ justify the hope
  that, if only the Abbey theatre will cease trying to be a Hibernian
  branch of Drury Lane, it can still produce real Irish dramatists.”
  Williams Haynes

     + — =Dial= 63:208 S 13 ‘17 820w

       + =Ind= 91:189 Ag 4 ‘17 50w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:86 Je ‘17

  “Fitzmaurice’s dialect has a richness of idiom that surpasses the
  familiar and monotonous Kiltartan, a gusty blowing freshness that is
  typically Irish, yet unlike that of Synge, or Colum, or the work of
  any other Irish folk-dramatist.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:662 Je ‘17 140w


=FLANDRAU, GRACE HODGSON.= Cousin Julia. *$1.40 (1½c) Appleton 17-22295

  This is the story of a family in a middle western town. “Cousin
  Julia,” wife of a successful business man, is a social climber with
  two beautiful daughters, Virginia and Louise. Virginia, the finer and
  cleverer of the two, is, though she herself is ignorant of the fact
  for many years, an adopted daughter. Other characters are Félix de
  Lorme, a French marquis, who marries Louise, but falls in love with
  Virginia; Tom Collingsworth, a rich and rather commonplace young
  business man, who is Virginia’s other lover; Frau von Ernst,
  Virginia’s elderly friend; and Bob Tillinghurst, in the United States
  diplomatic service, and his wife Violet.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:95 D ‘17

  “A painstaking care for details of characterization distinguishes
  ‘Cousin Julia.’”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 21 ‘17 700w

  “Yet the book is more than readable; its charming pictures of the
  Middle West and its sardonic understanding of the Cinderella
  background of ‘les nouveaux’ help to point a shrewd moral.”

     + — =Dial= 63:353 O 11 ‘17 150w

  “Written with sincerity. ... Interesting, principally because of the
  well-drawn figure of Julia. The Frenchman, Félix de Lorme, ‘an amateur
  of everything, of letters, of science, of love’ is also well done, and
  so is the small-natured and commonplace Louise. ... The picture of
  middle western society is amusingly presented.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:343 S 16 ‘17 320w


=FLEAGLE, FRED K.= Social problems in Porto Rico. $1 (3c) Heath 917.29
17-17543

  A collection of data on the social problems of Porto Rico which the
  author brought together in the course of his work in rural sociology
  in the University of Porto Rico. Contents: Population; The jíbaro;
  Overpopulation; The family; Rural housing conditions; Woman and child
  labor; Industries; The land problem and unemployment; Poverty;
  Sickness and disease; Crime; Intemperance; Juvenile delinquents; Rural
  schools; The school and the community; Relation of the teacher to the
  community; Present-day rural school movements; Physical development
  and longevity.

         =Ind= 92:487 D 8 ‘17 40w

  “This book is a specific and not a general picture, and by no means an
  attractive one. But it satisfies a thirst for information that has
  been growing with those who hear constantly of the great poverty in
  Porto Rico. ... It may also assist some in a position to do so to set
  their shoulders to the task of amelioration—a task that needs more
  American shoulders.”

       + =Nation= 105:430 O 18 ‘17 1300w

       + =R of Rs= 57:221 F ‘18 140w

  “‘Social problems in Porto Rico’ is short and to the point, almost to
  the extent of being dogmatic. It is well worth reading.” S. B. Grubbs

       + =Survey= 39:202 N 24 ‘17 400w


=FLECKER, JAMES ELROY.= Collected poems. il *$2 Doubleday 821 17-26316

  James Elroy Flecker was a young English poet who died in 1915. J. C.
  Squire, who was with him at Oxford has edited his poems, contributing
  a biographical introduction to the volume. He had published four books
  of verse: “The bridge of fire,” 1907; “Forty-two poems,” 1911; “The
  golden journey to Samarkand,” 1913; “The old ships,” 1915. It is from
  these volumes that the present collection is reprinted, with twenty
  new poems added. The poems are arranged in two groups, Juvenilia, and
  Later poems, and they follow roughly a chronological order.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:341 My ‘17

  “It has been the fate, and perhaps the happy fate, of many English
  poets to die young. ... Great as was the promise of Middleton and
  Brooke, it is the death of Flecker that is perhaps our most grievous
  loss.”

       + =Ath= p527 N ‘16 1300w

         =Boston Transcript= p7 F 24 ‘17 300w

  “Poems of a young Englishman who died in 1915 at the age of thirty,
  and who belonged to the so-called Parnassian school—a group of seekers
  after perfection of form and the objective interpretation of beauty,
  represented in France by de Heredia and Leconte de Lisle.”

       + =Cleveland= p65 My ‘17 210w

  “His achievement in verse is consistently high, but no single poem
  stands out as specially memorable.” Odell Shepard

       + =Dial= 63:19 Je 28 ‘17 180w

  “He is almost the only upholder of art for art’s sake who can justify
  his practice to the unbeliever.” O. W. Firkins

       + =Nation= 106:90 Ja 24 ‘18 450w

  “His family was Austrian, and perhaps it was because of such
  affiliation that he was attracted to eastern romance. ... He did a
  thing more difficult than the bringing back of an eastern glamour—(the
  glamour is there in The ballad of Iskander, and The golden journey to
  Samarkand)—he brought into contemporary poetry metres that suggest and
  may actually be derived from oriental verse. ... Except James Clarence
  Mangan no other poet has been able to weave English into such exotic
  patterns.” Padraic Colum

 *     + =New Repub= 10:sup12 Ap 21 ‘17 1250w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:62 Ap ‘17

  “There are a hundred interesting aspects of the man and his work which
  space forbids us to attempt. Like Rupert Brooke, he greatened to the
  last.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:77 Mr 4 ‘17 850w

       + =Sat R= 122:485 N 18 ‘16 1400w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 22 ‘17 800w

  “His achievement is unlikely to occupy the industrious commentator, or
  to become the esoteric nucleus of a learned society. If it live, it
  will be because beauty created in words cannot easily die.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p457 S 28 ‘16 3600w


=FLEMING, GUY.= Diplomat. *$1.50 Longmans

  “A picture of early 19th-century social and political life as seen in
  the family of a Yorkshire squire rich in sons who follow various
  careers, and a daughter who becomes a countess. But Guy Fleming, a
  novelist of considerable gifts, concentrates mainly on the career of
  the fourth son, which culminates in a long residence in a foreign
  capital. Upon his journals the story is supposed to be based.”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

  “Written in the leisurely Trollope manner.”

       + =Dial= 62:482 My 31 ‘17 120w

         =Ind= 91:353 S 1 ‘17 40w

  “There are sundry crimes, all vividly depicted, but leaving the reader
  disposed to wonder why it was worth while to write—and to write so
  well—a novel containing no character enlisting much sympathy and with
  but one scene that really touches the heart; a novel which, with all
  its merits, leaves the reader cold.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:131 Ap 8 ‘17 250w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p626 D 21 ‘16 70w

  “Mr Fleming is so interesting that it is a pity his unweeded
  rhythmless style should make him so difficult to read.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p5 Ja 4 ‘17 580w


=FLEMING, GUY.= Off with the old love; a war story. *$1.50 (2c) Longmans
17-21972

  “Though toward the end the scene of the story is shifted to France, to
  the trenches, and the hospitals, it is at Ravenscroft [in England]
  that most of the action takes place, and very many of the numerous
  characters live. ... The plot is an intricate one, with a lost
  daughter, a murder, an elopement, and no less than three love stories,
  not to mention several past romances, to increase its
  complications.”—N Y Times

  “There are touches of comedy and two or three amusing characters in
  the book ... while the author’s intermittent comments are usually
  clever, often pungent, sometimes satiric, and always entertaining. The
  quiet restrained style has a good deal of charm. ... There is too much
  of the pleasantness and placidity in the book; at the end, one feels
  that persons such as the author has drawn, placed in situations such
  as those in which he has chosen to place them, would have been a good
  deal less comfortable than his various characters finally were.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:303 Ag 19 ‘17 580w

  “Mr Fleming makes all the people in his new book subject to a great
  variety of coincidences, and when it is all over one feels that they
  and their surroundings have been a good deal wrenched to make them fit
  his little stage. ... The war does little to influence the course of
  the plays except that it provides a fanciful background for a series
  of coincidences and a target at which Mr Fleming aims a number of
  rather inapposite and bitter sayings.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p316 Jl 5 ‘17 450w


=FLETCHER, ALFRED CHARLES BENSON.= From job to job around the world. il
*$2 (3c) Dodd 910 17-25257

  Mr Fletcher, a graduate of the University of California, tells in this
  book how he started with his fare paid from San Francisco to Honolulu
  and a five dollar gold piece in his pocket, and worked his way around
  the world in three years. He visited Hawaii, Japan, Korea, China, the
  Philippines, Ceylon, India, Egypt, Palestine, Turkey, Europe, England,
  Norway, Spitzbergen, Sweden, and finally crossed the Atlantic to
  America. Mr Ralph J. Richardson, who was equally short of funds, was
  the author’s traveling companion on part of the trip, and took the
  photographs from which the book is illustrated. The narrative was
  originally published in the Wide World Magazine.

  “A buoyant, high-spirited account of personal adventure, with graphic
  pictures of places and people. Illustrated with good photographs.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:92 D ‘17

  “A very entertaining story he spins, not only about the world, or such
  considerable portions as he visited, but also about the calm assurance
  and readiness of American boys to make themselves at home in strange
  places and under remarkable conditions.” A. M. Chase

       + =Bookm= 46:334 N ‘17 90w

  “His account of his adventures comes, in vivacity and shrewd
  observation and humorous description, a close second to Mark Twain’s
  Innocents abroad.’” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 12 ‘18 520w

  “Boyishly light-hearted but rather crude narrative.”

     + — =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 70w

         =N Y Evening Post= p1 O 13 ‘17 1800w

  “Most of the traveling was done third class or steerage, a fact that
  affords interesting reading because so few American travelers choose
  to go in this fashion.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:574 D 23 ‘17 300w

         =St Louis= 15:430 D ‘17 10w


=FLETCHER, CHARLES BRUNSDON.= New Pacific; British policy and German
aims; with a preface by Viscount Bryce, and a foreword by the Right Hon.
W. M. Hughes. *$3 Macmillan 325.3

  “‘The new Pacific’ is an Australian’s review of British and German
  dealings in the Pacific ocean, a lucid exposure of German methods and
  German designs, a statement of Pacific problems present and future,
  and an account of some representative Britons who have shaped history
  in those southern seas. The author, Mr Brunsdon Fletcher, is a leading
  journalist in Australia, associate editor of the Sydney Morning
  Herald.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “In this volume, to which Lord Bryce and the Prime minister of
  Australia have contributed some introductory pages, the author gives a
  clear and interesting exposition of German policy and aims in the
  Pacific, and of the long-growing misgivings on the part of Australians
  respecting the aggressive tendencies of their German neighbours.”

       + =Ath= p247 My ‘17 80w

         =Cleveland= p99 Jl ‘17 70w

  “His indictment of German aims amounts to very little. ... None the
  less, the book deserves the attention of American students of the
  whole political situation. The United States has large interests in
  the Pacific.”

     + — =Nation= 105:42 Jl 12 ‘17 750w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:109 Jl ‘17

  “We advise every one who wants to understand what Australia looks for
  in the terms of peace to read this book.”

       + =Spec= 118:590 My 26 ‘17 1300w

  “Mr Brunsdon Fletcher has had access to first-hand information,
  written and oral, from the best sources; he has presented and arranged
  his facts with practised skill, grouping them round well-known
  characters; and the result is a book of singular interest and
  substantial value. ... If ‘The new Pacific’ had no other
  recommendation, it would be valuable as illustrating very forcibly and
  with much picturesqueness the great and much underrated influence
  which missionaries have had upon the onward movement of the British
  empire.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p147 Mr 29 ‘17 2100w


=FLOURNOY, THÉODORE.= Philosophy of William James; auth. tr. by Edwin B.
Holt and W: James, jr. il *$1.30 (3c) Holt 191 17-6639

  The author of this interpretation of William James’s philosophy is a
  professor in the faculty of sciences at the University of Geneva. The
  book itself is based on lectures which, delivered in 1910, were
  intended, in a way, as a memorial. In his first chapter the author
  makes some interesting observations on the importance of James’s
  artistic temperament. “He was a born psychologist and a psychologist
  of genius precisely because of this artistic insight, which in him, by
  a rare exception, was combined with the exact scientific spirit.” The
  chapters that follow take up in turn: Early environment; Rejection of
  monism; Pragmatism; Radical empiricism; Pluralism; Tychism; Meliorism
  and moralism; Theism; The will to believe; Summary and conclusion. A
  review of “The varieties of religious experience,” from the Revue
  Philosophique, is reprinted in an appendix.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:373 Je ‘17

  “This study of the philosophy of James is admitted by many to be the
  best that has been written upon the philosopher and is now translated
  into English by two men who personally and professionally are
  especially well fitted to be just both to James and to Professor
  Flournoy. ... It reminds us of the work of James himself in its very
  readable character.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 28 ‘17 350w

  “It is clearly and simply written and furnishes an admirable
  introduction to the study of William James—quite the best that we have
  seen. And it is, moreover, a book that will be read with equal
  pleasure and profit by those already familiar with his work.”

       + =Nation= 104:462 Ap 19 ‘17 1000w

  “Written in so simple a style that even those unversed in
  philosophical technology need not feel doubtful concerning it.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:141 Ap 15 ‘17 270w

         =St Louis= 15:135 My ‘17 14w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 290w

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p376 Ag 9 ‘17 1750w


=FLOWERS, MONTAVILLE.= Japanese conquest of American opinion. *$1.50
(2c) Doran 325.7 17-3170

  The author believes that the Japanese are carrying on a systematic
  campaign to win over American public opinion. The objects to be gained
  are: “The removal of restrictions on immigration; the rights of
  naturalisation, American citizenship, and of intermarriage with the
  white race; the overthrow of all anti-Asiatic land legislation in
  western states; the rapid acquisition of those lands; and all that
  follows.” The book is issued as a warning to America and as an offset
  to the writings of Sidney Gulick, H. A. Millis and others, deemed by
  the author vicious. The book consists of three parts: The Japanese
  problem; Forces and methods of the Japanese conquest; Bases of
  opinion, old and new.

  “Will be useful in debate work.”

         =Cleveland= p53 Ap ‘17 30w

  “The temper of Mr Flowers is not altogether admirable. He is sometimes
  narrow and often vituperative; but he is, as we have noted, sincere
  and his contribution to the discussion of the ‘Japanese problem’ is
  worthy the careful attention of those who differ most widely from
  him.”

         =N Y Times= 22:36 F 4 ‘17 650w

  “His discussion is valuable solely as a presentation of an extreme
  point of view held by a number which, it may be supposed, increases
  geometrically as the Pacific coast draws nearer.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 130w

  “We have heard much of Mr Flowers and his diatribes against the
  Japanese and his dreadful arraignment of such men as Sidney L. Gulick,
  Hamilton Holt, the late H. W. Mabie, the present reviewer and
  others. ... The pith of Mr Flowers’ argument is in an outcry against
  amalgamation. His peculiar ideas as to philosophy, history and
  ethnology are largely his own. ... He should have furnished an index
  for students of his closely printed and rather bulky work, so rich in
  fallacies.” W: E. Griffis

       — =Survey= 37:699 Mr 17 ‘17 200w


=FOERSTER, NORMAN, and PIERSON, WILLIAM WHATLEY=, eds. American ideals.
*$1.25 Houghton 815 17-25284

  Under the heads of Liberty and union, State and nation, American
  democracy, American foreign policy, and Foreign opinion of the United
  States, are brought together certain essays, addresses and state
  papers that express ideals of statesmen and of men of letters from
  Thomas Jefferson to Woodrow Wilson, from Alexis de Tocqueville to
  Alfred J. Balfour. The authors refer to the collection as “expressions
  of our national and international conscience” on ideals, policies and
  political tendencies of our country.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:121 Ja ‘18

  “Ushered in by Mr Woodbury’s splendid sonnet, ‘Our first century,’
  these selections challenge as well as inspire.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 17 ‘17 270w

  “The purpose of the volume is evident and praiseworthy. It might well
  be adopted as a school reader. But for the public at large, outside
  the schools, it is valuable, for it brings together the finest
  utterances on a theme of vital importance, many of them not easily
  accessible.” J. B. Landfield

       + =Educ R= 55:75 Ja ‘18 600w

  “The selections are judiciously made and we believe that the book
  should prove useful in the inculcation of a thoughtful and intelligent
  patriotism among the rising generation.”

       + =Ind= 92:193 O 27 ‘17 70w

         =R of Rs= 56:549 N ‘17 60w


=FOGARTY, KATE HAMMOND.= Story of Montana. il *$1 (1½c) Barnes 978.6
16-16737

  This story of Montana was written “to meet the demand for a suitable
  textbook for schools, and also for the many lovers of Montana who wish
  to become familiar with the main facts of its early as well as
  present-day history without having to consult many separate volumes.”
  (Preface) The book is made up of ten chapters: Early explorers in
  Montana; The Indians; The fur trade; Visitors to the posts; The
  missionaries to the Indians; The first settlers; The soldiers in
  Montana; Development of the state; Transformation of the Indians;
  National problems in Montana. The national problems treated in this
  last chapter are Irrigation, Dry-land farming and Forestry.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 31 ‘17 110w

  “Intended as a text-book for the public schools, ‘The story of
  Montana’ also makes its appeal to the adult reader.”

       + =R of Rs= 54:683 D ‘16 50w


=FOOTE, JOHN TAINTOR.= Dumb-Bell of Brookfield. il *$1.35 Appleton
17-6535

  “One need not be an enthusiast about hunting dogs or dogs in general
  to appreciate and thoroughly enjoy half a dozen stories, all related,
  that are grouped in this volume. Dumb-Bell appears first as a runt of
  a puppy, the son of the late champion setter, but so insignificant as
  to be ‘a stone despised by the builders, that is made the head of the
  corner.’ His anonymous triumph puts him instantly on the throne of his
  father, as told in the first story. Later chapters have to do partly
  with his own career and partly with his owners and other people and
  dogs at Brookfield.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Full of pathos and humor, they show a complete understanding of dogs
  without making them in the least human. Good for reading aloud.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:315 Ap ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:136 Ap 15 ‘17 200w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 29 ‘17 150w

  “Somewhat out of the ordinary. Appeared in American Magazine.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 20w


=FOOTE, MRS MARY (HALLOCK).= Edith Bonham. *$1.50 (2c) Houghton 17-8582

  The friendship between two women is the foundation of this story. One
  of them marries and goes out into the unknown West. (The time of the
  story is fully a generation ago.) Here the other, Edith Bonham,
  follows her some years later, intending to make her home there and to
  help in caring for her friend’s children. She arrives just in time to
  learn of Anne’s death. For the sake of the children, she remains,
  resolved to make up as best she can for their loss. She at first
  wholly misunderstands her friend’s husband, a quiet man of deep
  feeling and few words. But in time a sympathetic understanding breaks
  down the barriers and they are drawn together.

  “Distinctly a woman’s book, one of the few which interpret the best
  American types.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:402 Je ‘17

  “The reader may find himself (if not herself) in a rather impatient
  mood before all the misapprehensions and mystifications of a fairly
  simple situation are permitted to be cleared up. Mrs Foote’s style, as
  always, with its quiet clarity, offers grateful refreshment to ears
  which may be a trifle weary of the din and ‘punch’ of the current
  literary mode.” H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 45:648 Ag ‘17 350w

  “Will probably be considered her most appealing novel. Mrs Foote
  writes with the method of the great novelists of an earlier
  generation. There is nothing of sketchiness in her literary product.
  Her characters are limned with delightful attention to details.” H. S.
  K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 21 ‘17 550w

  “A detailed leisurely story with a few excellent characterizations but
  with what seems to be a wilful and superfluous piling up of barriers
  between the two chief characters.”

     + — =Cleveland= p63 My ‘17 50w

  “Mrs Foote is one of our veteran novelists and she knows her business.
  I ask, however, with due respect whether the book should not end on
  page 321, whether the postscript is not superfluous.” J: Macy

     + — =Dial= 63:113 Ag 16 ‘17 100w

  “So much for the crude substance of the book: its merit lies
  elsewhere, in the quiet and sure rendering of that substance by a
  delicate womanly hand.”

       + =Nation= 105:40 Jl 12 ‘17 500w

  “The story has the human appeal and sure touch in dealing with life
  found always in Mrs Foote’s work.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 50w


For France; ed. by C: Hanson Towne. il *$2.50 Doubleday 940.91 17-29466

  Tributes to France in story, poem and song, from the hearts of a
  notable group of America’s authors, painters, musicians, sculptors and
  actors. The offerings are all short, with a note of deep loyalty and
  affection for the people who from ‘76-‘83 sent us their money and
  their men under the leadership of their Lafayette and Rochambeau. The
  chapters, full of sympathy, and of the sense of debt we owe, have a
  heartening message for the heroic, dry-eyed patriots who have been
  shaken to the depths with sorrow; while for Americans they serve as a
  new spur to fight the harder for justice, humanity, liberty,
  democracy.

  Reviewed by Albert Schinz

       + =Bookm= 46:292 N ‘17 150w

  “While there is much repetition of sentiment in it, and while some of
  the writers are so emotional and temperamentally strung that they are
  unable to give vision to their words, there are, nevertheless, a
  number of notable and significant contributions. Such, for example, is
  Mr Owen Wister’s address in French. But from the standpoint of
  literary permanence the volume is sorely lacking.”

     + — =Ind= 92:561 D 22 ‘17 140w

  “It is amazing simply as a collection of names, if nothing more. The
  volume strikes a lofty note as a work of art—art with a purpose,
  certainly. A peculiarly rich and beautiful tribute to France.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:476 N 18 ‘17 850w

  “It appears to us that the theme has appealed to the writers and
  artists and that there is little or nothing in the volume that is not
  inspired by very genuine feeling.”

       + =Outlook= 117:521 N 28 ‘17 90w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 N 23 ‘17 410w


For the right; essays and addresses by members of the “Fight for right
movement.” *$1.50 Putnam (*5s T. Fisher Unwin, London) 940.91 (Eng ed
17-3139)

  “A series of addresses, which were delivered at King’s college,
  London, to explain the principles for which the Allies are fighting
  and to show how they may be established in the life of nations when
  the peace settlement has been made. The aim of the Fight for right
  movement is to keep these ideals before the nation, and prevent it
  from being diverted by ‘minor questions of trade and territory and
  retaliation.’ The authors of the papers included in the present volume
  are Lord Bryce, Sir Henry Newbolt, Mr Maurice Hewlett, Mr Wilfrid
  Ward, Dr Robert Bridges, Dr L. P. Jacks, Prof. Gilbert Murray, Prof.
  Ramsay Muir, Sir Frederick Pollock, Mr Philip Kerr, Mr A. F. Whyte, Mr
  H. Wickham Steed, the Rev. W. Temple, Evelyn Underbill, Mr Arthur
  Boutwood, and M. Painlevé.” (Ath) There is a three-page bibliography
  for Mr A. F. Whyte’s lecture, “The outlook of a good European.”

         =Ath= p584 D ‘16 130w

  “We, too, have learned, ever since the second of April last, how much
  harder is the task, how much greater is the sacrifice we have
  undertaken than we at first supposed. So it comes about that the words
  of this book, which were meant for England, seem made for us.”

       + =Nation= 105:228 Ag 30 ‘17 380w

  “‘For the right’ would make uncomfortable reading for the German
  Chancellor; it would cause him to search his conscience. Our
  publicists, now busy with the stale and futile ‘barbarian’ whipper-up
  of public feeling, might learn from this even-tempered volume how to
  put democratic driving-force behind the complex realities of a liberal
  peace.”

       + =New Repub= 10:303 Ap 7 ‘17 400w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:681 O ‘17 130w


=FORBES, JOHN MAXWELL.= Doubloons—and the girl. il *$1.25 (1½c) Sully &
Kleinteich 17-10668

  A tale of treasure hunting. The discovery of an old Spanish pirate’s
  chart has the usual effect on the imagination of the finders. No one
  who has a pirate’s chart in his possession can rest easy until he is
  aboard ship and on his way after the treasure. In this case the search
  party consists of two old men, one of them the captain, two young men,
  and one girl, the captain’s daughter. The mate, a one-eyed seaman who
  has discovered the purpose of the expedition, is the villain who all
  but destroys the success of the expedition. The island on which the
  treasure is buried is volcanic, and eruptions and earthquakes are
  added to mutiny to give color to the tale.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 2 ‘17 200w

  “The tale is related with some spirit, and is not unentertaining.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:138 Ap 15 ‘17 200w

  “A lively, though conventional tale.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 200w


=FORBES, NEVILL.= Russian grammar. 2d ed rev and enl *$2 Oxford 491.7
17-13555

  “Dr Forbes’s ‘Russian grammar’ is timely. ... Dr Forbes seems to have
  made a point of omitting those rules which, although accepted in
  standard grammars, are nevertheless subject to numerous exceptions.
  Russian grammar can safely undergo this process of simplification to a
  considerable extent. ... Perhaps the greatest difficulty presented by
  the Russian language lies in the aspects of the verb. ... The author’s
  treatment of this part of the subject is particularly thorough.”—Ath

  “The book is intended for the use of students working with a teacher
  or those who, working alone, wish to learn to read. It seems to us
  admirably suited for its purpose. ... We believe that those who have
  already an elementary knowledge of the subject will find the ‘Grammar’
  excellent.”

       + =Ath= 1915, 1:161 F 20 480w

  “The interest in Russia that has grown up during the present war has
  produced a large number of grammars and handbooks to the Russian
  language. The fullest and most scientific of these books is Mr Nevill
  Forbes’s.”

       + =St Louis= 15:140 My ‘17 40w (Reprinted from Modern Language
         Review)


=FORBES, NEVILL=, ed. Third Russian book. *$1 Oxford 491.7 (Eng ed
18-383)

  A reader of selections, supplementing the language teaching of the
  “First Russian book” and the “Second Russian book.” “Four notable men
  of letters are represented in Mr Forbes’s ‘Third Russian book’:
  Aksakov, aristocrat, naturalist, sportsman, and author: Grigorovitch,
  painter, novelist, and art-critic; Herzen, philosopher, historian,
  reformer, and exile; and Saltykov, satirist. The text is clear, and
  plentifully provided with foot-notes.” (Ath)

         =Ath= p305 Je ‘17 40w

  “The notes are good, though somewhat needlessly full on the simpler
  passages and scanty on those more difficult; the vocabulary is
  adequate and carefully prepared. The weak point of the volume is in
  the choice of material. ... No one of the authors represented is of
  the very first rank, and of the five selections two are the opening
  chapters of novels. It is a model of neat, careful printing.”

     – + =Nation= 105:266 S 6 ‘17 150w


=FORBES, WALDO EMERSON.= Cycles of personal belief. *$1.25 (3c) Houghton
121 17-10884

  The cycle of personal belief which the author traces comprises a
  process of illusion, disillusion, and reillusion. Disillusion cannot
  be permanent because of the soul’s craving for positive elements.
  “Thought, phoenix-like, begins perpetually to create new beliefs, to
  build, to affirm, and to renew the world.” But belief, after all,
  plays little practical part in our lives, for we discover that a
  perception of truth does not guarantee an obedience to truth. There is
  another cycle, growing out of experience, that follows the cycle of
  belief. The stages of this the author terms generation, degeneration
  and regeneration. But he does not imply that, even with regeneration,
  a permanent goal is reached: “Our moments of peace are given for the
  reception of new visions, and these, however gently the hint at first
  is given, are each and all incentive to action. Human life embosomed
  in paradise at one pole plunges into turmoil at the other. The
  struggle is not over, the problems are not solved.”

  “Mr Waldo Emerson Forbes has succeeded in cultivating something of the
  style both of thought and of expression which one finds in the
  writings of the great essayist, his grandfather, whom his name brings
  to mind.”

       + =Nation= 105:152 Ag 9 ‘17 230w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:94 Je ‘17

         =Pratt= p6 O ‘17 10w

       + =St Louis= 15:167 Je ‘17 10w


=FORD, SEWELL.= Wilt thou, Torchy. il *$1.35 (2c) Clode, E: J. 17-5451

  Sewell Ford’s clever stories, told in the latest up-to-the-minute
  vernacular, seem to lose none of their popularity and Torchy is a hero
  who rivals Shorty McCabe in public favor. This book contains seventeen
  new stories, reprinted from Every Week. Torchy relates his own
  adventures, telling of his progress upward in the Corrugated trust
  company, and of his mishaps and final success in courtship under the
  keen and not encouraging eye of “Auntie.”

  “Will be popular.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:353 My ‘17

  “Torchy is still the unique creation of Mr Ford’s brain and it is to
  be hoped that the advancing years will not materially change him, it
  being taken for granted that more of his delightfully humorous tales
  will soon be forthcoming to give pleasure to young and old.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 28 ‘17 230w

       + =N Y Times= 22:80 Mr 4 ‘17 150w

  Reviewed by E. P. Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 91:968 Mr 17 ‘17 450w


=FORDYCE, CLAUDE POWELL.= Touring afoot. (Outing handbooks) il *80c (3c)
Outing pub. 796 17-4213

  A three mile walk daily in the interests of health is the author’s
  advice, given in the first chapter. The man who has kept himself in
  trim thru this daily exercise will be ready for the longer tramps
  discussed in the remainder of the book. The author writes of: Hitting
  the trail; Going in “light”; Woods walking with a pack; Map reading;
  Packs and packing; Footwear; Efficient cruising shelters; Camp making;
  The outdoor bed question; Choosing the light weight mess kit; The
  ration list; Health hints for hikers; Winter travel afoot.

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:218 Jl ‘17 50w


=FORNARO, CARLO DE.=[2] Modern purgatory. *$1.25 (4c) Kennerley 365
17-31926

  “This book is a record of the prison experiences of Carlo de Fornaro,
  artist, writer, editor, revolutionary. It is a record of experiences
  in the famous Tombs prison, in New York city, and in the New York city
  penitentiary on Blackwell’s Island.” (Introd.) The offense against the
  laws of the state of New York on which the author was convicted was
  criminal libel against Diaz, then president of Mexico. If the reader
  does not see the relation between facts and consequences as set forth
  in the introduction, he must accept the situation as another evidence
  of the strange and wonderful ways of justice in our land. The book
  itself is a narrative of daily prison life told without bitterness and
  with only unspoken condemnation of a heartless and futile system.

  “Mr Fornaro’s is not what the Puritan calls a pleasant book. But it
  possesses the rare degree of truth that one finds more often in
  Russian than in American writing. His is the most vivid, concrete
  description of the mediaeval survival in the heart of our modern
  cities, and the most realistic illustration of the need for such
  reform as Mr Osborne has instituted that has yet appeared.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p4 D 15 ‘17 380w

  “The book is interesting, but neither subtle nor detailed enough to
  rank as literature. He paints at all times with the artist’s love of a
  picture, never with the scientist’s love of accurate statement.” W. D.
  Lane

     + — =Survey= 39:469 Ja 26 ‘18 450w


=FORSTNER, GEORG GÜNTHER, freiherr von.= Journal of submarine commander
von Forstner; tr. by Mrs Russell Codman. il *$1 (5½c) Houghton 940.91
18-8

  This translation of the journal of a German submarine commander
  appears in book form with an introduction by John Hays Hammond, jr.,
  who writes of “The challenge to naval supremacy.” In her foreword the
  translator says, “The following pages form an abridged translation of
  a book published in 1916 by freiherr von Forstner, commander of the
  first German U-boat. ... Many repetitions and trivial incidents have
  been omitted in this translation; but, in order to express the
  personality of the author, the rendering has been as literal as
  possible, and it shows the strange mixture of sentimentality and
  ferocity peculiar to the psychology of the Germans.” In part the work
  is a personal account, in part a technical description of the
  activities of a submarine. There are seven illustrations from
  photographs.

  “Gives American readers a good opportunity to get the German
  conception of the deadly efficiency of their favorite sea weapon.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:101 Ja ‘18 70w


=FORSYTH, PETER TAYLOR.= Justification of God. (Studies in theology)
*90c (1c) Scribner 231 17-9816

  “Lectures for war-time on a Christian theodicy” is the sub-title of
  this book, and the unfamiliar word is defined as “the attempt to
  adjust the ways of God to conscience.” Contents: Overture and outline;
  The expectations of popular religion and their fate; The problems:
  revelation and teleology; Metaphysic and redemption; What is
  redemption? Salvation theological but not systematic; The failure of
  the church as an international authority; Teleology acute in a
  theodicy; Philosophical theodicy; The eternal cruciality of the cross
  for destiny; Saving judgment; History and judgment; The conquest of
  time by eternity; Bibliography.

  “It is a pity the book could not have been written in simpler style.
  To understand it will be far beyond the average layman, and parts of
  it will puzzle the theologian. Taken as a whole, however, the purpose
  of the author is clear and his reasoning conclusive.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 180w

         =N Y Times= 22:500 N 25 ‘17 50w


=FORTESCUE, GRANVILLE ROLAND.=[2] France bears the burden. il *$1.25
(3c) Macmillan 940.91 17-30748

  This book devoted to France and her part in the war consists of
  chapters on: The glory of France; Monsieur Poilu of Paris; Verdun, the
  battle epic; In the Argonne; In the stream of the Somme fighting; The
  business of war; The flying fighters; Thoughts on shrapnel and tanks;
  Who pays for the war? The burden France has borne. In a letter,
  reprinted as a foreword, M. André Tardieu says to the author: “That
  which, in my opinion, gives special value to your book on France in
  war time, is that you have not been content only to gather therein the
  excellent articles sent by you from Paris and the front to the
  Washington Post, but you also, from your observations and experiences,
  develop a picture of the whole subject. Yours is the work of the
  historian.” Major Fortescue is author of “At the front with three
  armies,” and other works.

  “Full appreciation of France is revealed on every page of Mr
  Fortescue’s book. One might almost complain that his praise of France
  and her brave men implies a discrimination against the British and
  American troops.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 200w

  “Much above the average level of the descriptive war books now
  appearing.” Joshua Wanhope

       + =N Y Call= p14 D 29 ‘17 320w

       + =Outlook= 118:32 Ja 2 ‘18 50w


=FOSDICK, HARRY EMERSON.= Challenge of the present crisis. *50c (3c)
Assn. press 172.4 17-28192

  A message for all who are asking these questions: In what mood shall a
  Christian, or for that matter an idealist of any kind, face the
  catastrophe? With what considerations and insights can he support his
  faith and hope? How can he harmonize his ideals with his necessities
  of action in a time of war? His answer gives reasons for accepting the
  present crisis as a challenge and concludes with: “The present war is
  an appalling commentary upon our failure to fulfil or even to
  acknowledge our obligations. We have seen our duty in too little
  terms; we have but dimly understood what the Master wanted of us. We
  are challenged to understand it now; the call is written in lines of
  fire on the map of the world; and we shall be renegade, indeed, if we
  do not now accept before it is too late the opportunity for
  international service which this war reveals.”

  “A sane and thoughtful consideration of the relations of war and
  Christianity.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:74 D ‘17


=FOSTER, MAXIMILIAN.= Shoestrings. il *$1.40 Appleton 17-6533

  “It is concerned primarily with the ambitions and the adventures of J.
  Lester Tams, who began his career as a bundle boy in a San Francisco
  department store and after many years of struggle had achieved
  eminence as a floorwalker. ... Mr Tams’s purpose in life was to become
  a gentleman. To that end he toiled, to that end he studied—books of
  etiquette were the subjects of his mental effort, and to that end he
  had in sixteen years succeeded in saving the sum of $1,700. Then came
  a lucky plunge—a splashing bucket shop plunge, it was—in war stocks;
  and Mr Tams and every one else in Mrs Tams’s boarding house got
  rich.”—N Y Times

  “Full of funny character sketches, and good for reading aloud.
  Appeared in the Saturday Evening Post.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:315 Ap ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 120w

  “Emphatically a tale to amuse an idle hour. And a most amusing tale it
  is.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:155 Ap 15 ‘17 200w


=FOSTER, ROBERT FREDERICK.= Foster’s pirate bridge; the latest
development of auction bridge, with the full code of the official laws.
il *$1.50 (3½c) Dutton 795 17-4824

  The aim of this book is “to set before the reader a complete
  description and exposition of the latest candidate for public favor in
  the realm of cards, without assuming on the reader’s part any previous
  knowledge of similar games, although it is naturally expected that the
  largest appeal will be to those who are already familiar with auction
  bridge. The author has endeavored to explain the logic of the bidding
  as clearly as possible, illustrating the more interesting situations
  by hands from actual play.” (Preface) The author is an authority who
  has issued a number of other works on bridge.

  “The first book to describe this latest development of auction
  bridge.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:339 My ‘17

  “In addition to a clear setting-forth of this new development in
  auction and its laws, Mr Foster has included in ‘Pirate bridge’ many
  chapters of great use to all auction players, his skill at play and
  his ability to teach being equally well-established in the card-loving
  world.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 16 ‘17 390w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:75 My ‘17

         =R of Rs= 56:332 S ‘17 60w

         =St Louis= 15:150 My ‘17 14w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 31 ‘17 130w

  “Written with all the skill and thoroughness and lucidity of style
  which we should expect from one of the ‘old masters.’ ... Mr Foster,
  in his chapters on tactics, proves, we think, that the game contains
  some interesting new opportunities for cleverness alike in the
  declarations, the acceptances, and the play of the hand; but at the
  same time we also think that, in proportion to their offering
  themselves to the clever player only, they spoil the game, and make it
  distinctly inferior to auction for nine people out of ten.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p504 O 18 ‘17 1650w


=FOSTER, ROBERT FREDERICK=, ed. Hoyle up-to-date; the official rules of
card games. *$1 (1c) Sully & Kleinteich 795 A17-393

  This work was first copyrighted in 1897 and it has run thru many
  editions. The whist rules are by Walter H. Barney; the poker rules by
  David A. Curtis.

  “Formerly published in paper binding at 25c, by the United States
  playing card company. While the paper is poor and the type small, it
  is useful as containing the official rules of all card games, revised
  to date.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:363 My ‘17

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:75 My ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:181 Je ‘17 10w

  “While the new edition in the main is singularly complete, one fails
  to note in the discussion of stud poker the generally accepted rule
  that four-flush beats a pair, although otherwise the poker section
  presents an admirable survey of the American game.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 15 ‘17 60w


=FOSTER, WILLIAM TRUFANT.= Argumentation and debating. rev ed *$1.40
Houghton 808.5 17-23795

  A revised edition whose changes have been based upon suggestions from
  more than a hundred college teachers who have used the book as a
  textbook. “The aim of the revised edition is to present the essentials
  of argumentation and debating as simply as possible, following the
  order in which the difficulties arise in actual practice. The order is
  psychological rather than logical. The point of view is that of the
  student rather than that of the instructor.” (Preface)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:66 N ‘17

  “Fresh and timely illustrations bring the book down to date. Moreover,
  the Houghton Mifflin Co. has produced a book well-nigh mechanically
  perfect in form and appearance.” E. F. Guyer and R. L. Lyman

       + =School R= 25:611 O ‘17 50w


=FOSTER, WILLIAM TRUFANT.= Should students study? *50c (3c) Harper 378
17-9712

  The president of Reed college questions the time-old assertion that it
  is the “college life” that counts. Is there any relation between a
  high grade of scholarship in college and success in after-life? He
  brings forward some interesting statistics that bear on the question.
  Contents: College life; Differences—east and west; College life and
  college studies; Promise and performance; Success in studies and in
  life; Genius as a substitute for study; Thinking by proxy; Should
  specialists specialize? Ultimately practical studies.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:376 Je ‘17

  “It would be interesting to hear what so skilful a pleader as Mr
  Foster might say on the subject of adapting colleges more closely than
  now to the manifold needs of the time. But it would be unfair to imply
  that this book is not a stimulating one. It carries its points with
  force, and it is written in a style that is pungent and at times
  brilliant.”

       + =Dial= 63:69 Jl 19 ‘17 280w

  “A telling little review, excellent to put in the hands of careless
  freshmen and indifferent parents.”

       + =Ind= 90:518 Je 16 ‘17 40w

         =St Louis= 15:140 My ‘17 9w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 24 ‘17 500w


=FOWLER, HENRY THATCHER.= Origin and growth of the Hebrew religion.
(Handbooks of ethics and religion) *$1 Univ. of Chicago press 296
16-25219

  “A book written for the general student. The author says: ‘The present
  volume is designed to offer a guide for study rather than simply a new
  essay or treatise upon the history of Israel’s religion.’ The
  principal source book for this field of investigation is the Old
  Testament. He gives a very brief chronological outline of Hebrew
  history; and a similar outline of the Hebrew literature from the
  beginnings ‘before 1040 B. C.’ to the Mishnah, about 200 A. D.
  Preceding the text of each chapter are given the references to the
  biblical materials, and at the close of each chapter are given the
  names of books for supplementary reading.”—Boston Transcript

  “The main themes of the book are allowed to stand out clearly so that
  they can be grasped without difficulty, and the summary at the close
  gathers up the results of the previous studies succinctly and
  forcibly. A definite impression is thus left upon the reader’s mind,
  and this is most desirable. This impression will enable him to proceed
  farther into biblical studies with a correct sense of direction.”
  Kemper Fullerton

       + =Am J Theol= 21:610 O ‘17 680w

  “The present writer belongs to the progressive group, and has a vital
  sympathy for religious ideals and struggles of the true prophets of
  the Hebrews. ... For a clear and concise exposition and guide for the
  general student of Israel’s religion this is one of the best works
  published.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 28 ‘17 450w

  “One of the best hand books on the subject for college classes or
  other groups of advanced Bible students. It is especially to be
  commended for its readableness and clear presentation of the various
  stages thru which the Old Testament religion advanced to its final
  expression in Judaism.”

       + =Ind= 90:517 Je 16 ‘17 60w

  “His discrimination between the higher and lower sides of Old
  Testament ideas enables him to express distinctly his sympathy with
  the better thought of the prophets and psalmists, and so to guide the
  student into an intelligent view of the development of the Israelitish
  conscience.”

       + =Nation= 105:725 D 27 ‘17 130w

  “While Prof. Fowler applies the results of higher criticism and
  research he does it so wisely and unobtrusively that the story is
  enriched, instead of erased.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 9 ‘17 270w


=FOWLER, NATHANIEL CLARK, jr.= Grasping opportunity. *75c (2c) Sully &
Kleinteich 174 17-10888

  “Mr Fowler has had considerable experience in training young people
  for positions in the business world, and in the course of his
  experience has analyzed the major reasons for success or failure.
  These he gives in his book, which is largely written in conversational
  form.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Of value to inexperienced young people.”

       + =Cleveland= p76 Je ‘17 50w

  “Admirable, straight-from-the-shoulder advice to young people who are,
  or are about to be associated with the business world.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 150w


=FOWLER, WILLIAM WARDE.= Essays in brief for war-time. *90c Longmans 824
(Eng ed 17-13920)

  “Papers, ‘nearly all written during the early stress of the battle at
  Verdun,’ dealing with topics as diverse as ‘Birds at the front in
  France,’ ‘An old-fashioned recreation,’ ‘Civis Germanus sum,’ and ‘Two
  ideal school-masters.’”—Ath

       + =Ath= p43 Ja ‘17 80w

         =Pratt= p37 O ‘17 20w

  “They are just what one wants for an odd half-hour. The first essay
  recalls old Fuller’s ‘Good thoughts in bad times,’ which he wrote to
  soothe his troubled spirit during the civil war; it ought to be
  reprinted now.”

       + =Spec= 117:589 N 11 ‘16 170w

  “The essayist, with his mellow wisdom and kindly humor, is a master of
  his art.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p475 O 5 ‘16 1050w


=FOX, EDWARD LYELL.= New Gethsemane. il *60c (9c) McBride 17-25121

  This is the story of Anhalt, the cobbler of Oberammergau and the
  Christus of the Passion play, who, believing it wrong to kill, refused
  to answer the call to the colors, and was shot. The episode is pure
  fiction. The story was first published in 1916 in the Woman’s World.

  “An excellent little story for Christians who happen to be pacifists.
  It is fiction, of course, but exceedingly well used to point a moral
  and adorn a tale.” Joshua Wanhope

       + =N Y Call= p14 O 28 ‘17 320w

  “It is regrettable that the author should deal so largely with
  Anhalt’s conduct, with the obvious action rather than with the
  complexities of Anhalt’s dreadful struggle with himself. It is a
  simple tale, told with the simplicity due rather to omission than to
  careful pruning.”

         =N Y Times= 22:414 O 21 ‘17 110w


=FOX, EDWARD LYELL.= Wilhelm Hohenzollern & co. il *$1.50 (2½c) McBride
940.91 17-15168

  Mr Fox is an American newspaper correspondent and author of “Behind
  the scenes in warring Germany.” He has made three trips to Germany
  during the war and seems to have been afforded opportunity for
  gathering a good deal of information. He gives a gossipy account of
  the Kaiser, the Crown prince, and the men who surround them, followed
  by a chapter entitled “Inside the iron ring,” which deals with the
  supply of food and of materials needed in war industries, and a final
  chapter entitled “Why we are fighting Germany.” The chapter on “The
  Kaiser and the Big Three,” (Bethmann-Hollweg, Hindenburg, and
  Ludendorff) is of special interest at present.

  “His book gains value more from the fact that his opportunity was
  unique than that his writing is good. It is not good; it is
  sensational, imaginative (to speak mildly), but amazingly
  interesting. ... In spite of his flights of fancy, his judgment of
  people is fairly correct. Much of what he says is a repetition of
  previous surmises and rumors and commonplace observations, but his
  outlook is in the main fresh and original.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 30 ‘17 520w

  “Character sketches, somewhat in Sunday supplement style. The author’s
  estimate of the Kaiser will seem to many to err on the side of
  leniency.”

     + — =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 50w

  “All the way he is, or tries to be, the cool, calm, impartial
  investigator. And he is rewarded for this admirable attitude by having
  produced an admirable book.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 500w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:672 O ‘17 50w


=FOX, JOHN (WILLIAM).= In Happy Valley. il *$1.35 (5c) Scribner 17-25585

  Ten short stories of the Kentucky mountaineers, six of which appeared
  in Scribner’s Magazine in 1917. Contents: The courtship of Allaphair;
  The compact of Christopher; The Lord’s own level; The Marquise of
  Queensberry; His last Christmas gift; The angel from Viper; The pope
  of the Big Sandy; The goddess of Happy Valley; The battle-prayer of
  Parson Small; The Christmas tree on Pigeon.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:95 D ‘17

  “These are good stories and affecting stories, with the advantage of a
  quaint setting and atmosphere; they are, I suppose, less true to
  ‘life’ than to that wistful dream of life which is called sentiment.”
  H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:341 N ‘17 120w

  “In these stories we have Mr Fox at his best.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 21 ‘17 510w

  “The best story in the collection is ‘His last Christmas gift,’ a grim
  little masterpiece softened by a touch that almost brings tears. The
  other tales lack somewhat in compactness and unity, but there is
  enough interesting material, warmly and humanly presented, to make
  them all very good reading.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:694 F ‘18 100w

  “The inspiration that he seemed to draw from those earlier days at the
  Gap, when the mountains were really what one imagines the mountains to
  be, is somewhat dimmed. But the point is that he sees below the
  surface into the real lives of his people, and that he enriches mere
  incident with the warmth that comes from an appreciation of the values
  from which it springs.”

     + — =Dial= 63:464 N 8 ‘17 280w

  “Mr Fox knows how to capture the sometimes primitive instinct and
  passions of the hard-working, impoverished lives of the people of
  Happy Valley. Mr Fox has made these people lovable in this happy
  addition to his work.”

       + =New Repub= 13:56 N 10 ‘17 110w

       + =N Y Times= 22:366 S 30 ‘17 400w

  “It is his first book for some years and, altho collected from the
  magazines, a re-reading is merely like greeting old friends, not like
  being bored by tiresome acquaintances. You get much the same pleasure
  out of re-reading the story of the fight between Ham Cage and King
  Camp, refereed by the little school teacher according to what she
  could remember of the Marquis of Queensberry rules, that you do from
  re-reading a favorite bit of Thackeray.” E. P. Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 92:1376 O 20 ‘17 330w

  “But whatever its tone, each story graphically pictures some phase of
  life, habit or scene in this well-nigh alien colony in the backwater
  of American life.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 220w


=FRANCE, ANATOLE, pseud. (JACQUES ANATOLE THIBAULT).= Human tragedy; a
tr. by Alfred Allinson. il *$3 (11½c) Lane 17-29339

  A holiday edition of the translation of a story contained in the
  series “Le puits de Sainte-Claire.” The translation was previously
  published in Chapman’s English edition of the Works of Anatole France,
  1909. It is the story of Fra Giovanni, who, inspired by the example of
  St Francis, took the vows of poverty and lived “humble and despised,
  his soul a garden of flowers fenced about with walls.” As did Adam of
  old he eats of the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil offered to
  him by the adversary. The evil spirit subtly appears in many guises,
  drawing his net tight about his victim until Giovanni cries out: “Thru
  you it is I suffer, and I love you. I love you because you are my
  misery and my pride, my joy and my sorrow, the splendour and the
  cruelty of things created, because you are desire and speculation, and
  because you have made me like unto yourself.” The story becomes a
  parable of the universal human tragedy of thought.

  “The illustrations are extremely original and well suited to M.
  France’s deeply satirical imitation of a saint’s chronicle. It is a
  delectable book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 9 ‘18 400w

  “Will probably be welcomed chiefly for the excellent English into
  which it has been rendered and for the interesting full-color
  illustrations by the Russian artist Michel Sevier, whose style
  suggests Bakst and the Moscow art theatre.”

       + =Dial= 63:531 N 22 ‘17 190w

  “Besides the involved picturesque, and highly poetic thought and
  expression of Mr France, we have the unusual colored illustrations of
  Sevier, which are also mystical. They add much to the book’s
  attractiveness.”

       + =Lit D= 55:42 D 8 ‘17 160w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:74 My ‘17

  “This well-translated fanciful tale, superbly illustrated, shows
  Anatole France in a characteristic mood.”

       + =Outlook= 117:510 N 28 ‘17 10w

  “The volume may appeal to people of artistic temperament; both text
  and paintings are bizarre.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 110w


=FRANCK, HARRY ALVERSON.= Vagabonding down the Andes. il *$4 (1½c)
Century 918 17-25452

  The author of “A vagabond journey around the world,” etc., spent four
  years traveling in Mexico, Central and South America. A considerable
  portion of this journey was made on foot. The present book deals with
  the author’s tramp down the ridge of the Andes to Buenos Aires. He
  tells us that his purpose “was primarily to study the ways of the
  common people,” that too many of the books on Latin America have
  whitewashed everything and that he is interested “only in giving as
  faithful a picture as possible.” He warns us that he has “taken for
  granted in the reader a certain basic knowledge of South America,” and
  also that “this is no tale of adventures.” The numerous illustrations
  are from photographs by the author and there is a map showing the
  route.

  “Not so gay as his former books, but contains an immense amount of
  useful information.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:92 D ‘17

  “Although the author refers to his journey as vagabonding and to
  himself as a vagabond, his book reveals him as a keen-eyed, observant
  traveller with a fund of dry Yankee humour and common sense. The
  volume therefore is not only a rare record of endurance and adventure
  in out-of-the-way places, but in addition is a valuable contribution
  to our knowledge of the Andes and the Andeans.” A. M. Chase

       + =Bookm= 46:334 N ‘17 450w

  “Not a tale of adventure but unwhitewashed pictures of the fantastic
  everyday life of Latin Americans.”

       + =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 70w

       + =Lit D= 55:42 D 8 ‘17 190w

  “Franck’s books justify the day-to-day diary form; he is a master of
  detail, of local vignettes, of discriminate minutiæ. The photographs
  taken by this literary vagabond are excellent and appropriate to the
  text. The omission of an index is quite inexcusable, and reduces the
  value of the book to that derived from a mere casual reading.”

     + — =Nation= 106:20 Ja 3 ‘18 290w

  “The book makes a fine antidote to the top-hat, frock-coat style of
  grandiloquence about South America, favored by chambers of commerce
  and explorers who keep within a five minutes’ radius of the best
  hotels in Buenos Aires, Valparaiso and Rio de Janeiro.”

       + =New Repub= 13:sup18 N 17 ‘17 220w

  “There are two particulars in which the volume might easily be
  improved; one is the addition of an index, the other is the omission
  of the illustrations, or most of them. They add little except bulk.
  Those who delight in real adventure will find it here in plenty. Those
  who want social information of a kind studiously omitted from most
  volumes will find much of it scattered through more than 600 pages.”
  F. M.

     + — =N Y Call= p15 D 2 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Franck has written a book of immense value. The reader soon comes
  to trust his report of conditions, so far as he saw them. ... His
  reports of chance conversations alone are worth reading the book for.”

       + =N Y Sun= p6 O 6 ‘17 1350w

  “A brilliant, colorful, enthralling story of adventure this volume is
  beyond doubt the most entertaining work on South America that has yet
  appeared in the English language—or in any other, for that matter.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:460 N 11 ‘17 1850w

  “He tells, as charitably as possible, how he found the Latin American,
  and if in the telling many praiseworthy things are overshadowed by the
  less laudable, his impressions at least have the virtue of frankness.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:759 N ‘17 100w

  “The present reviewer would not have missed this book for a whole
  week’s salary and he’s going to turn right around and read it again.”
  Robert Lynd

       + =Pub W= 92:810 S 15 ‘17 500w

       + =R of Rs= 56:551 N ‘17 150w

  “A most entertaining book, full of color, adventure and incident.” P.
  B.

       + =St Louis= 15:431 D ‘17 20w

  “He has made a book full of interest, one filled with vivid pictures
  of life and scenery for which we are indebted to both his pen and his
  camera. Text and picture supplement each other admirably.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 1450w


=FRANK, WALDO DAVID.= Unwelcome man. *$1.50 (1½c) Little 17-2340

  He was an unwelcome child. Born the fifth son in a family of eight, he
  was wanted by nobody. His father openly disliked him. His brothers and
  sisters never made a place for him. His mother, tho she loved him with
  a fierce maternal tenderness that tried to atone for her lack of joy
  at his birth, never understood him. He was a sensitive child, always
  conscious of his anomalous position in the family life. The story is a
  study of his childhood and youth. In college as in his home, he is out
  of place. He leaves before the end of his senior year to go into
  business, where he loses himself in the stream of mediocrity.

  “The style of ‘The unwelcome man’, like its philosophy, is a thing to
  be consciously accepted or surmounted if one is to read the book at
  all. It is pretentious, formal, often inflated, sometimes turgid. ...
  The book with all its realism of scene and episode is less a story
  than a parable; and it is a parable based upon despair.” H. W. Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 45:205 Ap ‘17 470w

  “The story naturally is not a happy one. Indeed, its situation of
  selfish introspection comes perilously near being wearisome if not
  actually depressing at times. But technically, as an analysis of
  character, it is distinctly admirable.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 13 ‘17 550w

  “The vitality of Mr Frank’s conception is shown by the fact that it
  provides a concrete touchstone for most of the problems of our
  contemporary civilization. ... Is it a successful work of art? Rather
  an extremely interesting than a successful one.” Van Wyck Brooks

     + — =Dial= 62:244 Mr 22 ‘17 1000w

  “Philosophizing pessimism.”

         =Nation= 104:269 Mr 8 ‘17 450w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:24 F ‘17

  “The book contains a good many ideas, is somewhat out of the ordinary,
  and has evidently been written for its own sake.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:89 Mr 11 ‘17 410w

  “An unusually able first novel by an author whom America should note
  carefully. American to the core, it challenges comparison with the
  work of such men as Theodore Dreiser and Ernest Poole. In fact, from
  its relentless realism, one easily guesses that Mr Frank is a close
  student of Dreiser—tho he has not copied that writer’s sexual
  obsession.” Robert Lynd

       + =Pub W= 91:204 Ja 20 ‘17 550w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 330w


=FRANKLIN, WILLIAM SUDDARDS, and MACNUTT, BARRY.= General physics; an
elementary treatise on natural philosophy. il *$2.75 McGraw 530 17-7555

  “The subtitle of this book is the key to the contents. It is
  intentionally a somewhat dilute philosophical discussion of those
  natural phenomena whose study we commonly include under ‘physics.’ ...
  The book runs the whole gamut of classical physics, covering
  mechanics, dynamics, hydraulics, heat, electricity, magnetism, light
  and sound. There is nothing particularly strange encountered, except
  in the discussion on thermodynamics, where great attention is paid to
  entropy.” (Engin N) “Little space is given to the atomic theory. There
  are excellent bibliographies and an explanatory chapter on
  mathematics.” (Ind)

  “The authors endeavor to show that entropy is a measurable property of
  a substance and that the different values of such measured property,
  before and after a thermodynamic degeneration, measure the sweeping
  process. The authors’ approach is very acceptable indeed to people who
  have a considerable knowledge of physics and an inherent and sustained
  interest in the science, but it will be an extremely difficult, if not
  an impossible, task to try to make young students absorb this line of
  reasoning.”

       + =Engin N= 77:435 Mr 15 ‘17 350w

  “An unusually good elementary textbook for colleges and technical
  schools. The authors have the power of clear, concise statement.”

       + =Ind= 90:382 My 26 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:335 Ap ‘17 40w


=FRANKS, THETTA (QUAY) (MRS ROBERT A. FRANKS).= Household organization
for war service. *$1 (8c) Putnam 640 17-14701

  The author has written books on “Efficiency in the household,” “The
  reward of thrift,” etc. This small book offers a general discussion of
  the need for better household organization rather than specific
  suggestions or plans. A list of helpful books for the household is
  given at the close.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:45 N ‘17

  “An excellent and timely little book.”

       + =Cleveland= p87 Jl ‘17 50w

  “American housewives are so used to advice introduced by genial
  assurances of their ignorance, stupidity and selfishness that the
  laying of most national defects on their kitchen door stones will not
  in the least affect their appreciation of these very practical and
  suggestive pages.”

       + =Ind= 91:136 Jl 28 ‘17 60w

       + =N Y Times= 22:246 Jl 1 ‘17 380w

  “Many of these suggestions are as sensible and helpful in peace times
  as in war.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:214 Ag ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:331 S ‘17 20w


=FRANKS, THETTA (QUAY) (MRS ROBERT A. FRANKS).= Margin of happiness; the
reward of thrift. il *$1.50 (3½c) Putnam 640 17-18488

  “This book is the outcome of a series of informal talks which Mrs
  Franks gave before a large class of women in the Oranges, N. J.,
  organized to study business methods of administering a household,
  intelligent and economic buying of food, its proper cooking, and the
  value to health of a balanced ration. [It aims] to set forth woman’s
  work in the household as a profession which ought to be prepared for
  as zealously as a man prepares for the profession which is to be his
  lifework and its duties discharged with as much satisfaction in the
  ability to do so efficiently and successfully. ... An appendix
  contains an account of the plan on which the classes mentioned above
  were carried on, an alphabetical ‘grocery list’ which gives concise
  information and advice as to each article, and a list of ‘helpful
  books.’”—N Y Times

         =Am Econ R= 7:902 D ‘17 60w

       + =Ind= 91:353 S 1 ‘17 80w

  “It is, in effect, a complete manual or guidebook for students on
  household subjects and written in a style adapted to students of all
  ages. To be the ideal housewife here described will make necessary
  cooperation on the part of husbands, for it involves a separate
  bank-account and a real business partnership.”

       + =Lit D= 55:53 D 1 ‘17 180w

  “Mrs Franks writes with eloquence and with that knowledge of her theme
  that comes from much study, much thought, and much experience.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:246 Jl 1 ‘17 350w

  “Of great use to all housekeepers and to every one who believes in
  thrift and in conserving the food supply of the nation.”

         =R of Rs= 56:331 S ‘17 130w

  “Similar in purpose to Frederick’s ‘The new housekeeping,’ but less
  definite in its information and covering a little different field.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:29 Ja ‘18 80w


=FREEMAN, JOHN.= Moderns; essays in literary criticism. *$1.75 Crowell
820.4 (Eng ed 17-26878)

  Contents: George Bernard Shaw; H. G. Wells; Thomas Hardy; Maurice
  Maeterlinck; Henry James; Joseph Conrad; Coventry Patmore and Francis
  Thompson; Robert Bridges.

  “Discerning and readable, the usefulness of the compact discussions of
  the authors’ works is somewhat lessened because there is no index.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:86 D ‘17

  “The author’s survey is acute and well-balanced, showing a sound
  general knowledge of his material and a well-defined individual
  standard of taste. His own style inclines to the parenthetical,
  enlivened with many well-turned phrases.”

         =Ath= p43 Ja ‘17 80w

     + — =Ath= p85 F ‘17 350w

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 25 ‘17 1150w

       + =Dial= 63:164 Ag 30 ‘17 300w

  “In matters of form and style he is less acute than elsewhere—he
  speaks, for example, with undue contempt of Mr Shaw’s prose as prose
  and with extravagant admiration of Mr Hardy’s verse as verse; and he
  finds poetical felicities in Patmore and Robert Bridges which few will
  share with him. He is strong in his applications of common-sense and
  the emotions attendant upon it to the paradox, the bombast, and the
  sentimental flummery of our fashionable contemporaries. ... Mr Freeman
  is at his best and happiest in his recognitions of spiritual values.”

     + — =Nation= 105:296 S 13 ‘17 410w

         =R of Rs= 56:553 N ‘17 30w


=FREEMAN, MRS MARY ELEANOR (WILKINS), and KINGSLEY, MRS FLORENCE
(MORSE).= Alabaster box. il *$1.50 Appleton 17-9348

  “The people of Brookville, a characteristic little New England
  village, did not recognize how beautiful was the alabaster box when
  one came bearing it among them and wished to pour all its contents at
  their feet. ... Miss Lydia Orr is an appealing heroine whose unusual
  character is realized in a strong and vital but delicate portraiture.
  All the years of her girlhood she has fed her inner self upon the
  dream of going back to Brookville with plenty of money wherewith to
  repay to the villagers in one way or another the money they had once
  lost through her father. And at last it becomes possible. But she
  finds his memory so hated and all the villagers still dwelling so
  angrily upon the wrong he had done them that she has difficulty in
  carrying out her scheme.”—N Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:403 Je ‘17

  “It is a pity that Mrs Freeman should lend her name and her left hand
  to work so shallow and perfunctory as this.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:93 S ‘17 380w

  “Miss Wilkins needs to reëstablish her reputation after this. ‘An
  alabaster box’ will satisfy only those who do not know her past work.
  Except for those bits in it that signify a familiar skill that lingers
  in the memory, it is unworthy of the name it bears on its title-page.
  Certainly Miss Wilkins should henceforth get along without a
  collaborator.” E. F. E.

     – + =H Boston Transcript= p12 Ap 7 ‘17 1200w

       + =Dial= 62:527 Je 14 ‘17 120w

  “Two love stories add to the real interest we feel in very real
  fictional personalities. A healthy American story.”

       + =Ind= 90:471 Je 9 ‘17 110w

  “Mrs Freeman’s delicate touch in the limning of character is often in
  evidence, especially in the portrayal of the heroine, but the general
  effect of the story is more suggestive of Mrs Kingsley’s work than of
  Mrs Freeman’s.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:114 Ap 1 ‘17 420w

  Reviewed by Frank O’Neil

       + =Pub W= 91:970 Mr 17 ‘17 520w

  “The story is highly interesting, and the several characters are
  delightfully portrayed.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 22 ‘17 330w

  “The moral is made palatable by the cleverly drawn village life and
  characters, and two stories of young love.”

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 50w


=FREESE, JOHN HENRY=, comp. New pocket dictionary of the English and
Russian languages; English-Russian. *$2 Dutton 491.7

  “The dictionary is preceded by an introduction explaining the use of
  the prepositional prefixes and giving valuable lists of the nominal
  and adjectival suffixes; also by notes on the phonetic laws, the
  aspects and pronunciation, with a large-type picture of the
  alphabet.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “When a book represents a distinct advance over any previous work of
  similar character, it is not altogether pleasant to point out its
  weaker sides. This is emphatically true of ‘A new pocket dictionary of
  the English and Russian languages.’”

   + – — =Nation= 105:265 S 6 ‘17 370w

  “Cheap, well-printed, and compendious.”

       + =Spec= 117:269 S 2 ‘16 120w

  “Admirable in every respect. The dictionary is very full, and no
  important words seem to have been omitted; moreover, all parts of
  verbs which are at all different from the infinitive and all parts of
  nouns which are different from the nominative singular are given, an
  innovation for which novices will be extremely grateful.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p329 Jl 13 ‘16 280w


=FRENCH, ALLEN.= At Plattsburg. *$1.35 (2c) Scribner 17-13200

  The daily life of a Plattsburg recruit is described in a series of
  letters. The preface states that the letters are based on personal
  experience and that the author’s purpose in writing them was to give a
  “general picture of the fun and work at a training camp.” But while
  based on fact the narrative is thrown into fiction form, with a bit of
  love interest added for good measure.

  “Written with patriotic fervor and with a slight story and a vein of
  romance.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:376 Je ‘17

  “The writer’s style is lively and entertaining.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 130w

  “It is a play-time Plattsburg which Mr French has described so
  agreeably,—a Plattsburg already past,—a stepping-stone toward the
  universal American army, which in turn will do away with all such
  effervescences. That old Plattsburg was unique, and a unique success.”

       + =Dial= 62:528 Je 14 ‘17 450w

       + =Ind= 90:473 Je 9 ‘17 100w

  “It is what the ‘rookie’ does at Plattsburg, and perhaps even more, it
  is what Plattsburg does in the life and thought of the rookie, that
  gives the book not only its value but its charm. ... But perhaps its
  chief value lies in the specific following of the Plattsburg program
  from the camp’s assembly to its break up at the end of the famous
  hike. ... A book which many Americans will want to read just now.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:178 My 6 ‘17 730w

  “Mr French puts into Private Godwin’s letters enough of the philosophy
  of preparedness as it unfolds to Plattsburg students to make the book
  as valuable from such an angle as it is interesting as a story.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 10 ‘17 500w


=FRENCH, ALLEN.= Golden Eagle. il *$1.25 (3c) Century 17-24399

  A book that will be popular with boys and girls who understand sail
  boats. The “Golden Eagle” is a trophy that goes to the winner of a
  boat race. Three young people, Howard Winslow, his sister Ruth, and
  Fred Barnes are tied for first place and a third race, which is to
  decide the matter, is pending when the trophy disappears. The search
  for it and its recovery, a rescue from a wrecked boat, and the great
  race itself are the main incidents of the story.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:100 D ‘17

  “It has a good ethical tone. The illustrations are appropriate.”

       + =Ind= 92:447 D 1 ‘17 30w

  “Allen French has proved himself ere this a popular writer of breezy
  stories for young folks, and ‘The Golden Eagle’ will increase his
  popularity.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 140w


=FRENCH, ALLEN.= Hiding-places. *$1.35 (1½c) Scribner 17-8201

  Great wealth of treasure lay hidden somewhere on the two farms. An old
  buccaneer ancestor, seventy years earlier, had taken this method of
  leaving his wealth to his descendants. In the form of precious gems,
  he had concealed it in various hiding places. His will gave faint
  clues and stated clearly that finders were to be keepers. In order
  that the finders should always be members of the family, it became
  imperative that trespassing should be forbidden, that hired labor
  should be dispensed with and that guests should be chosen with care.
  At the time of this story the farms are in the possession of two
  cousins. Not for forty years has there been any discovery of treasure.
  Then Binney Hartwell, son of one of the cousins, finds one of the
  hidden boxes. Unhappiness, ill-luck and family dissension follow, but
  the disclosure of the final hiding place restores harmony.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:358 My ‘17

  “A kind of romance which would be contemptible if it were done
  cheaply; but it is done very well indeed, with, for good measure, some
  touches of genuine characterisation—a thing which cannot fairly be
  demanded of the pure romancer.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:313 My ‘17 350w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 300w

  “To say that the tale is exciting is to pay slight tribute to a novel
  containing so clever a plot and such excellent characterizations as
  those of the hero, his mother, and his cousin. Mr French has set out
  to write a story, but in accomplishing his end he has shown respect
  for his public and himself.”

       + =Dial= 62:314 Ap 5 ‘17 200w

  “A good story, well contrived and well told, and it shows that its
  author, whose first novel it is, has the story-teller’s instinct.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:94 Mr 18 ‘17 450w

  “A tale worth reading.”

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 40w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 13 ‘17 450w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 60w


=FRENCH, GEORGE.= How to advertise; a guide to designing, laying out,
and composing advertisements; pub. for the Associated advertising clubs
of the world. il *$2 (4c) Doubleday 659 17-6656

  “The object of this book is to suggest how advertising may be made
  more effective by making it more attractive—giving it more ‘attention
  value.’” (Preface) Contents: What the advertisement must do; The
  personal equation; The human interest appeal; Advertising display; The
  appeal of the display; “What has art got to do with advertising?” What
  is art? The all-type advertisement; Type; The illustrated
  advertisement; Illustrations; The decorative advertisement;
  Decorations; Optics and the advertisement; The form of the
  advertisement; Getting the copy ready; Assembling the units; In
  conclusion. The book is well illustrated, with twenty-six halftone
  plates and numerous line drawings.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:45 N ‘17

  “Its general spirit is to develop the critical factor of the
  advertiser himself. The book will have a worthy place in every
  business man’s library.” H. W. H.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 73:231 S ‘17 160w

  “What he says of advertising as a business force is both authoritative
  and helpful. The citation of concrete examples, good and bad,
  increases the book’s value.”

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 70w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:523 Je ‘17

  “The author is editor of the Advertising News.”

         =St Louis= 15:144 My ‘17 30w

  “The book is meant for a particular class of readers rather than the
  public, but in its own field it is bound to rank high.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 2 ‘17 250w


=FREUND, ERNST.= Standards of American legislation; an estimate of
restrictive and constructive factors. *$1.50 Univ. of Chicago press
342.7 17-10698

  “On its concrete side, the present work may be said to be a
  continuation of the standard treatise, ‘Police power,’ by the same
  author. It is an expansion of a series of lectures delivered at Johns
  Hopkins university. ... The object sought ‘is to suggest the
  possibility of supplementing the established doctrine of
  constitutional law which enforces legislative norms through ex post
  facto review and negation, by a system of positive principles that
  should guide and control the making of statutes, and give a more
  definite meaning and content to the concept of due process of law.’”
  (Int J Ethics) The table of contents is followed by a summary of the
  contents. The introduction cites a number of cases that illustrate the
  changed attitude of the courts toward social legislation, and touches
  on the movement for judicial recall. The chapters then take up:
  Historic changes of policy and the modern concept of social
  legislation; The common law and public policy; The tasks and hazards
  of legislation; Constitutional provisions; Judicial doctrines; The
  meaning of principle in legislation; Constructive factors. The author
  is professor of jurisprudence and public law in the University of
  Chicago.

  Reviewed by A. B. Hall

       + =Am J Soc= 23:540 Ja ‘18 1150w

  “Professor Freund’s purpose is to estimate the factors by the aid of
  which a system of constructive principles of legislation may be built
  up. This purpose distinguishes his book at once from such an excellent
  treatise as Jethro Brown’s ‘The underlying principles of modern
  legislation,’ which deals, not with principles of legislation as
  Professor Freund defines the term, but with policy, and from Chester
  Lloyd Jones’s valuable ‘Statute law making in the United States,’
  which deals exclusively with legislative practice.” A. N. Holcombe

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:580 Ag ‘17 620w

  “A book which, in a lucid and uninvolved manner traces the development
  of the policies of modern legislation in the exercise of what must be
  recognized as ‘a political and not strictly judicial function.’”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 210w

  “The field occupied by Professor Freund is a new one in nearly all its
  avenues of approach; and it is extremely fortunate that a writer of
  his wide professorial experience, and interest, in the subject, has
  undertaken to publish the results of his research and reflection. ...
  From the adverse side, we believe the title does not accurately
  represent the matters treated, and yet we would have great difficulty
  in suggesting another. The index is not altogether satisfactory. ...
  This defect is in part relieved by a chapter summary.” Albert Kocourek

 *   + — =Int J Ethics= 28:123 O ‘17 1600w

  Reviewed by H. W. Ballantine

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:1050 D ‘17 1000w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:765 N ‘17 60w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 28 ‘17 550w

  “It stimulates thought and suggests further studies. It is a work
  which jurists and constitutional lawyers will read with profit;
  however, it will also interest the layman who appreciates the
  increasing importance of statute law.” E. E. Witte

       + =Survey= 39:45 O 13 ‘17 330w


=FREYTAG, GUSTAV.= Doctor Luther; tr. by G. C. L. Riemer. il *$1 (3c)
Lutheran pub. soc. 16-16678

  Freytag’s work on Martin Luther is one of his “Pictures of the German
  past,” five historical volumes written and published between 1859 and
  1867. The work consists of four chapters: At the beginning of the 16th
  century; Struggles in the soul of a young man and his entrance into
  the monastery; Out of monastic confinement into battle; Doctor Luther.
  These are followed by biographic and geographic notes and a table of
  dates. A brief sketch of the author is included by way of preface.

       + =Ind= 89:274 F 12 ‘17 40w


From Dartmouth to the Dardanelles. (Soldiers’ tales of the great war)
*60c (2c) Dutton 940.91 (Eng ed 17-3142)

  The Dartmouth of the title is the British naval training college of
  that name. The young cadet whose story is told here was a boy of
  barely sixteen. His narrative was written while at home on sick leave
  in December, 1915, and has been edited for publication by his mother,
  who has made the necessary alterations in names of officers, ships,
  etc., leaving the boy’s story as nearly as possible as he wrote it.
  His experiences included rescue from death after his ship had been
  sunk.

       + =Cath World= 105:697 Ag ‘17 230w

       + =Ind= 90:297 My 12 ‘17 50w

  “Full of interest, simply but vividly told.”

       + =Nation= 104:412 Ap 5 ‘17 260w

  “The reader cannot fail to note in the book the strange gradual
  maturity that came in that year to this child of fifteen. ‘From
  Dartmouth to the Dardanelles’ is one of the unique personal records
  from this war.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:78 Mr 4 ‘17 550w

         =Pratt= p42 Ap ‘17 10w

         =R of Rs= 55:445 Ap ‘17 40w

  “Make-up and binding very poor.”

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:123 Ap ‘17 50w


=FROTHINGHAM, EUGENIA BROOKS.= Way of the wind. *$1.40 (3c) Houghton
17-6326

  An unusual love story, the theme of which is the attachment between an
  older woman and a man who is little more than a boy. Janet Eversly is
  past thirty when she first meets Edgar Chilworth, a boy in the early
  twenties. She is the guest of his sister in the New Hampshire hills,
  and it is Fanny Chilworth’s harshness in her treatment of the wayward,
  reckless youth that first draws Janet toward him. He is touched by
  Janet’s pity, and before they are aware, tenderness on the one side
  and gratitude on the other have merged into love. The situation is
  worked out slowly, with many failures on Edgar’s part and sorely-tried
  faith on Janet’s.

  “Not necessary, seems to be founded on false psychology.”

       — =A L A Bkl= 13:403 Je ‘17

  “The author has accomplished something very much worth while when she
  has drawn this portrait of Edgar Chilworth. ... On account of this
  character study the story is exceptionally praiseworthy as well as
  being psychologically interesting.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 10 ‘17 950w

       — =New Repub= 10:sup22 Ap 21 ‘17 300w

       + =N Y Times= 22:138 Ap 15 ‘17 340w


=FROTHINGHAM, PAUL REVERE.= Confusion of tongues. *$1.25 Houghton 170
17-10441

  “A volume of essay-sermons that deal not directly with the great war,
  but that touch various aspects of life affected by it. None of the
  discourses would be the same except for the colossal tragedy across
  the sea. They represent an attempt to ease a little the present mental
  strain, to restore the confidence of people, and to lead the mind back
  to the everlasting verities of life and duty. The title of the book is
  intended to symbolize the far-reaching effect of the European camps
  along the battlefront.” (Boston Transcript) “Contents: A confusion of
  tongues; The conduct of life; A motto; The little book; Making the
  best of things; How to choose; The ‘if’ and ‘though’ of faith; Extra
  pennies; The departure into Egypt; Unshaken things.” (N Y Br Lib News)
  The author has been the minister of the Arlington Street church
  (Unitarian), Boston, since 1900.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 170w

       + =Dial= 63:535 N 22 ‘17 150w

  “There is something a little out of the ordinary in the quiet sanity
  of Paul Revere Frothingham’s volume of essay-sermons.”

       + =Nation= 105:72 Jl 19 ‘17 280w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:94 Je ‘17

       + =R of Rs= 56:330 S ‘17 80w

  “Wholesome and helpful as these brief essays are in encouraging the
  cultivation of personal rectitude and hopefulness, they fall far short
  of measuring the shock which faith has suffered under the heel of war
  in Christendom.” G. T.

     – + =Survey= 38:574 S 29 ‘17 140w


=FRYER, EUGÉNIE MARY.= Hill-towns of France. il *$2.50 Dutton 914.4
17-30063

  “This book is a story of wanderings among the picturesque hill-towns
  of France in times of peace. These hill-towns, the traveller-author
  tells us, are of four distinct types: first, the large town, commanded
  and protected by the turrets and massive towers of its walls and
  citadel; second, the feudal castle, the residence of some great lord
  about whose walls a straggling town has grown up; third, the fortified
  town, communal in character, which, governed by no over-lord and
  possessed of no castle, yet protects itself from invasion by
  fortifying its houses and its churches also; and fourth, the monastic
  hill-town, its defences built primarily to defend a shrine. ... In
  tracing the history of these four types of hill towns in France, the
  writer has traced the welding of these divergent strands into a united
  whole, which comprises the French nation of today.”—Boston Transcript

  “A pleasant book, with fine illustrations of some of the most
  picturesque spots of France, such illustrations as would almost
  provide an excuse for dispensing with reading the text.” Albert Schinz

       + =Bookm= 46:292 N ‘17 230w

  “The descriptive style of the narrative is picturesque and vigorous.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 1 ‘17 320w

  “Most of the articles are reprints of papers from former publications,
  but the collection makes a handy reference volume.”

       + =Lit D= 56:39 Ja 12 ‘18 150w

  “Her book furnishes a new viewpoint from which to approach France and
  French life and history.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 200w

       + =Outlook= 117:654 D 19 ‘17 70w

       + =R of Rs= 57:219 F ‘18 40w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 100w


=FRYER, MRS JANE (EAYRE).= Mary Frances first aid book. (Mary Frances
story instruction handbook ser.) il *$1 Winston 614 16-24933

  “‘The Mary Frances first aid book,’ is a combination of story with
  information. ... It is printed in colors with fifty colored
  illustrations and has a ready reference list of ordinary accidents and
  illnesses, with approved home remedies, alphabetically arranged. ...
  The children who are the chief characters are entrusted with a group
  of doll patients on whom they practice what they learn about bandages
  and liniments, and the cure for burns and other injuries.”—Springf’d
  Republican

  “Of use to smaller Camp fire girls.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:407 Je ‘17

  “It is to be regretted that the author, a member of the New Jersey
  Women’s division, National preparedness association, has by much of
  her context infused the pages with the spirit of militarism and ‘flag
  waving.’ Otherwise the book has many valuable points and may be
  commended, especially for its illustrations and generally fine
  make-up.” M. G. S.

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Ap 15 ‘17 120w

  “At the present moment a practical first-aid book like this should be
  very popular.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 15 ‘17 120w


=FUESS, CLAUDE MOORE.= Old New England school. il *$4 (3c) Houghton 373
17-13971

  A history of Phillips academy, Andover, founded in 1778. Among the
  chapters are: A Puritan family; The founders; The founding of a
  school; An eighteenth-century pedagogue; The founding of Andover
  theological seminary; The School and the Hill in the mid-century;
  Student societies and enterprises; Some baseball stories; Football and
  its heroes; Phillips academy in the twentieth century. The volume is
  well illustrated.

  “More feasible for libraries if it had been condensed and sold at half
  the price.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:75 D ‘17

  “The mere fact that Oliver Wendell Holmes was there fitted for
  college, as we know from his own pen, is enough to make the academy
  and its history objects of unfailing interest.”

       + =Dial= 63:408 O 25 ‘17 200w

       + =Ind= 91:296 Ag 25 ‘17 70w

  “For those not directly interested in the academy it affords a glimpse
  into those pioneer days of American institutions of learning that were
  over full of history ‘in the making.’”

       + =Lit D= 55:33 S 1 ‘17 600w

  “The institution stands today as about the best known and perhaps
  without exception the most effectively equipped secondary school of
  America. ... We cannot avoid the feeling that Mr Fuess falls somewhat
  short of the proper degree of sympathy and understanding in dealing
  with the earlier history of the school, and especially with such a
  character as that of Principal Samuel H. Taylor. ... Aside from
  reservations which some may feel inclined to make on the point just
  mentioned, the author has done his work well and has written a chapter
  in the history of American education which should have a wide
  reading.”

       + =Nation= 105:68 Jl 19 ‘17 1250w

       + =N Y Times= 22:582 D 30 ‘17 340w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:692 O ‘17

  “Much of what he has brought to light is of significance not merely as
  the record of a school but as New England social history.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 14 ‘17 1100w


=FULLER, SIR BAMPFYLDE.= Man as he is; essays in a new psychology.
*$2.50 Stokes 150 (Eng ed 17-13409)

  “Retired from a distinguished career in India, Sir Bampfylde Fuller
  has devoted himself to psychological studies and has already published
  (in addition to two books on India) a work of value called ‘Life and
  human nature.’ He now gives us what may be called a contribution to
  the study of human impulses; for in these developing into rational
  choice and based on memory—the excellences of memory being the chief
  mark of man’s predominance over other animals—he finds the key to the
  human mind and conduct.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

       + =Ath= p473 O ‘16 80w

  “The first chapter, however, is too brief a statement of principles to
  form a really adequate introduction to the ambitiously planned
  inquiry.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:402 O 14 ‘17 500w

  “His treatment of man in these essays is wholly as ‘the paragon of
  animals.’ Nothing turns on any specific difference, any spiritual
  element which distinguishes man from animal. But there is no tone of
  brutality in the book, no cynicism, no Nietzsche nonsense, and we mark
  frequently with a certain amusement the conventional and even
  commonplace morality which pervades its rigid realistic and positive
  analysis of man purely as a terrestrial creature.”

         =Sat R= 123:322 Ap 7 ‘17 500w

  “The book contains much acute analysis based not only on reflection,
  but on a singularly wide acquaintance with men and affairs.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p491 O 12 ‘16 110w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p555 N 23 ‘16 1050w


=FULLER, HENRY BLAKE.= Lines long and short. *$1.25 Houghton 811 17-4572

  A volume of “biographical sketches in various rhythms.” Mr Fuller has
  told twenty stories in free verse, analyzing motives and exposing
  shams with something of the keen satire of the “Spoon River anthology”
  but with less of its sordidness. Some of the poems are reprinted from
  Poetry, the Chicago Tribune and the New Republic.

  “Without Edgar Lee Masters’s power to burn to the quick with the
  caustic of satire, he has yet the trained, clear-seeing eyes of the
  psychologist, the sense of human values of the novelist, and his
  people are real and unforgettable. The man who put off living until
  life would have none of him, stands out in particular relief.” J. B.
  Rittenhouse

     + — =Bookm= 46:439 D ‘17 110w

  “Mr Fuller is more rhythmical than Mr Masters. But though he has a
  spice of cynicism, his work is tempered with wit, and while he makes
  fun not only of his subjects and of himself, he has something worth
  telling and not one of his ‘little stories’ lacks zest. They are well
  worth reading.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 7 ‘17 550w

       + =Cleveland= p65 My ‘17 60w

  Reviewed by R. M. Lovett

         =Dial= 62:300 Ap 5 ‘17 1200w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:62 Ap ‘17


=FULTON, MAURICE GARLAND=, ed. Southern life in southern literature. il
80c Ginn 810.8 17-6667

  Selections from southern literature, arranged in three parts: The old
  South in literature; Poetry of the Civil war; The new South in
  literature. The editor says, “My attempt has been not merely to show
  the value of literary effort in the South as absolute achievement but
  also to emphasize its importance as a record of southern life and
  character.” Essayists, poets, story writers and humorists are
  included. In selecting from recent novelists and story writers the
  author has limited himself, with one exception, “to the five pioneers
  in the new development of fiction in the eighties.” These are George
  W. Cable, Joel Chandler Harris, Mary N. Murfree, Thomas Nelson Page
  and James Lane Allen. The exception is O. Henry.

       + =School R= 25:302 Ap ‘17 30w

  “Should be an acceptable book for supplementary reading in any high
  school, but particularly in the South, where its historical element
  would naturally make the greatest appeal and would serve as an
  excellent approach to the book. As a whole, the book is well
  organized, satisfactory in the point of notes, both explanatory and
  biographical, and commendable for the selection of subject-matter.” E.
  F. Geyer and R. L. Lyman

       + =School R= 25:609 O ‘17 90w


=FURNISS, HENRY SANDERSON=, ed. Industrial outlook. *3s 6d Chatto &
Windus, London (Eng ed 17-4219)

  “A collection of nine essays, edited by the principal of Ruskin
  college, who speaks of ‘the control of industry’ as the keynote of the
  book, so far as it has one. ... The contributors are G. W. Daniels,
  lecturer on economics in the University of Manchester; H. Clay; J. R.
  Taylor, lecturer in the University of Leeds; W. Piercy and T. E.
  Gregory, both lecturers at the London school of economics; A. W.
  Ashby, assistant in the Institute for research in agricultural
  economics at Oxford; and W. H. Pringle. Assistance has been received
  in the preparation of the book from Professor E. Cannan and Mr A. E.
  Zimmern.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “The writers have not a common point of view or a common terminology
  or a common way of approach. ... A book such as this cannot be judged
  as a book—each essay must be taken separately and judged for what it
  is in itself without reference to the rest. There are at least two
  essays which are really admirable; that of Mr Henry Clay on ‘The war
  and the status of the wage-earner,’ and that of Mr J. R. Taylor on
  ‘Labour organization.’ ... These two chapters should be read by
  everybody who really desires to understand the labour movement and the
  point of view of the trade unionist of to-day. Mr Ashby’s chapter on
  ‘The rural problem’ is also excellent, ... and should be an excellent
  tonic for all those who still have sentimental aspirations after the
  small holding or the peasant proprietor.”

     + — =Ath= p347 Jl ‘17 780w

  “Mr Taylor’s account of the new tendencies in trade unionism and the
  rise of the great industrial union, like the National union of
  railwaymen, as contrasted with the older craft unions, is especially
  interesting and valuable.”

       + =Spec= 119:193 Ag 25 ‘17 150w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p34 Ja 18 ‘17 170w




                                   G


=GADE, JOHN ALLYNE.= Charles the Twelfth, king of Sweden. il *$3 (2½c)
Houghton 16-22250

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “Hitherto Voltaire’s ‘Charles XII,’ of unstated literary charm, and
  the late R. Nisbet Bain’s useful sketch in the Heroes of the nations
  series have been the only attempts to write, in a non-Scandinavian
  tongue, the story career of one of the most picturesque and striking
  figures in modern history. Now comes Mr Gade, ... who has assumed the
  role of translator of the contemporaneous manuscripts of one Carl
  Gustafson Klingspor, devoted follower and companion in arms of the
  king. While the ‘translator’ provides an index and a very considerable
  bibliography, abounding in Scandinavian titles, his manner of writing,
  his soaring enthusiasm, and his penchant for dramatic effect suggest
  the historical novelist rather than the orthodox historical
  biographer. ... Those who, in spite of the grim realities of the
  present conflict, still yearn for a true tale of military adventure,
  in the main well told, will welcome this book; but it still leaves the
  way open for an exhaustive critical biography. The volume is
  handsomely bound and printed, while of errors there are comparatively
  few, though 1588 should be 1688 (p. 22).” A. L. C.

         =Am Hist R= 22:705 Ap ‘17 400w

  “Charles XII of Sweden has ever furnished an inspiring theme to
  writers of the most different stamp—from the keen contemporary
  Voltaire to the manly and tender Verner V. Heidenstam in our own days.
  Mr John A. Gade has hit upon the device of writing a book purporting
  to be a translation of the manuscript of one Colonel Klingspor. ... In
  most other respects Mr Gade is credible enough, fortified and
  enlivened as his account is with the contemporary observations and
  anecdotes now accessible in a number of published journals of the
  Carolines. The recently published five volumes of memoirs of soldiers
  under Charles, edited by Quennerstadäd, seem to have been especially
  drawn upon. ... In but one respect does there appear to be uncertainty
  of planning. For whom in particular was this eloquent account written?
  For youths to be fired with a noble emulation of a great character, so
  one would judge from the general tone of the book, which lays the
  greatest stress on the Spartan virtues. But if so, why the salacious
  anecdotes, e.g., about August the Strong, told in contrast though they
  be?... The book is well illustrated with portraits and plates. There
  is one altogether unserviceable map.”

         =Nation= 104:495 Ap 26 ‘17 420w

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 26 ‘17 400w


=GAGER, CHARLES STUART.= Fundamentals of botany. il *$1.50 Blakiston 581
16-19673

  “Gager’s text is evidently intended as a guide for an introductory,
  cultural course for college students, which shall at the same time
  serve as a foundational one for students who are to pursue the subject
  further. ... Part I (Introduction) deals with the organs of the
  cormophyte and the structure of the cell. Part 2 (The vegetative
  functions of plants) includes chapters on the loss of water,
  absorption of water, the path of liquids in the plant, nutrition,
  fermentation, respiration, growth, and adjustment to surroundings. ...
  The 26 chapters of part 3 (Structure and life histories) include
  discussions of the life histories of a considerable number of types,
  especially of the mosses, ferns, and flowering plants.”—Bot Gaz

  “The book is abundantly illustrated with 434 figures, a good share of
  which are original drawings or halftones. While the appearance, for
  example, of such illustrations as figs. 127, 198, 263, and 286 is to
  be welcomed, the same cannot justly be said of some others.”

       + =Bot Gaz= 63:324 Ap ‘17 400w

  “Excellent text-book by director of the Brooklyn botanic garden.
  Presents some original ideas in the teaching of botany. Very fully
  illustrated.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:41 Ja ‘17 20w

  “It will be noted that although a physiologist in outlook, he has
  properly emphasized the historical and structural point of view so
  often and so deplorably neglected by the cultivators of disembodied
  plant physiology. The author obviously considers that living matter is
  to be studied ‘in vita’ rather than ‘in vitro’ (whether in glass
  models or merely in chemical glass-ware).” F. C. Jeffrey

       + =Science= n s 46:617 D 21 ‘17 750w


=GAINES, RUTH LOUISE, and READ, GEORGIA WILLIS.= Village shield. il
*$1.50 (3½c) Dutton 17-13622

  Florence Converse, editor of the “Little schoolmates” series, writes
  an introductory “Letter to the one who reads this book” in which she
  says that this present day story of Porfiria and Ramon is a story of
  “real Mexicans; not the fierce and noisy men who are fighting and
  quarreling among themselves and sometimes with us ... but the Indians
  of pure blood, descendants or successors of the Aztec people.”
  Translations and explanations of terms used in the text are not given
  in footnotes but in eight pages of “Notes” at the end of the story.

  “Well illustrated with historic pictures taken from old books of
  travel. Will interest older children.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:29 O ‘17

  “It is rich in local color and rather too rich in Spanish phrases
  inserted to enhance that color.”

     + — =Ind= 92:260 N 3 ‘17 40w

  “It is a weaker and feminine story of the type popular in the Rover
  series, the Boy scout books, and the like. The illustrations, too,
  taken outright from Mexican books of travel of the early forties and
  fifties, are quite untrue to Mexican life today. And yet it is
  harmless enough, and might be absorbing to a child.” C. W.

         =N Y Call= p15 Je 24 ‘17 180w

  “The story is told with skill. ... The illustrations, of which four
  are colored plates, deserve a word of mention because of their
  historic and artistic interest. The twelve full-page pictures are from
  famous books of travel in Mexico of more than half a century ago,
  while more than a score of tailpieces and medallions have been redrawn
  from the picture-writings of the Mexican Indians, some of them
  antedating the Spanish conquest.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:249 Jl 1 ‘17 800w

  “While written for children, has interest for the older reader.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 290w


=GAIRDNER, WILLIAM HENRY TEMPLE.= Egyptian colloquial Arabic; a
conversation grammar and reader. il *12s 6d Heffer, Cambridge, England
492.7

  “Mr Gairdner, of the Church missionary society, who is the
  superintendent of Arabic studies at the Cairo study centre, has done a
  great service ... by preparing this practical conversation grammar and
  reader of the spoken language of the people. He discards the Arabic
  symbols for a modified Roman alphabet.” (Spec) “He has endeavoured to
  apply to Egyptian Arabic some of the modern methods used in teaching
  languages. Disconnected sentences, verb conjugations and paradigms,
  and grammatical rules preceding each exercise, have been omitted. For
  the last-named Mr Gairdner has substituted leading questions, which
  will enable students themselves to deduce the grammar illustrated by
  the subject-matter of each section. An advocate of direct methods, Mr
  Gairdner from the outset uses Arabic as the medium of instruction; and
  he gives good reasons for the particular system of Romic symbols
  adopted. The book contains tables of Egyptian-Arabic sounds, and of
  the consonants, vowels, and diphthongs; exercises in sound-drill and
  practice in reading; and a vocabulary of the chief words occurring in
  the reader.” (Ath) Mr Gairdner has been assisted by Sheikh Kurayyim
  Sallam.

       + =Ath= p409 Ag ‘17 130w

  “The book is, in its way, almost as epoch-making as that of Spitta; it
  shows, for all its modernity, very careful scholarship and it may be
  thoroughly recommended. The home-staying Arabist will probably get
  good results by combining it with Spitta’s ‘Contes Arabes.’”

       + =Nation= 105:491 N 1 ‘17 350w

       + =Spec= 118:94 Jl 28 ‘17 90w


=GALBRAITH, ANNA MARY.= Personal hygiene and physical training for
women. 2d ed rev il *$2.25 (2c) Saunders 613 17-2511

  For this second edition the chapter on Digestion and nutrition has
  been rewritten to bring it into conformity with present day knowledge
  of the nutritive value of foods, etc. Chapter 1 on The wisdom of
  physical efficiency has been revised to include the results of
  statistical studies made by the author. A section on dancing, with
  plates and description of simple steps, has been added.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:273 Mr ‘17


=GALE, ZONA.= Daughter of the morning. il *$1.40 (2½c) Bobbs 17-28848

  “Cosma Wakely was a village girl of twenty years, in speech, manner,
  and environment the antipodes of everything that culture stands for.
  Her story, told by herself, begins as ungrammatically and crudely as
  the character demands. But during a morning’s walk she meets a
  stranger whose talk with her changes at once all her personal ideals
  and her entire outlook upon life. Obeying the hint he has given her in
  regard to seeking wider horizons, she breaks her engagement with a
  country lover, and, taking with her the wife and child of a drunken
  brute, seeks employment in the city. There her great beauty subjects
  her to the usual peril from predacious man, but, saving herself by her
  quick wits, she soon enters a career of triumph, and is sent to
  school. ... She becomes secretary to the very man who first planted
  within her the seeds of ambition; and of course, of course—we easily
  guess the rest.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:131 Ja ‘18

  “‘A daughter of the morning’ must be set down as a ‘fact story,’ good
  enough for those that like their sociology, as well as their
  advertising, in tract form, but not to be considered from the
  viewpoint of fiction.”

     – + =Dial= 63:531 N 22 ‘17 170w

       + =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 50w

  “The superficial philosophy and the weak love interest may appeal to
  the sentimental high school girl. But the note of protest against the
  sterility and lack of promise that country life offers to a girl
  redeems the book from many of its faults.”

     – + =New Repub= 13:158 D 8 ‘17 100w

  “All the details of this impossible story are as far removed from
  things as they are as is the history of its heroine. Miss Gale scores,
  in that, despite the unrealities of her tale, and its being somewhat
  overloaded with her theories, she has made it interesting.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:517 D 2 ‘17 460w

  “With the gentle simplicity and sincerity so characteristic of Miss
  Gale’s work, she has said here many fundamental truths. She has
  clothed them with a gently appealing human touch that will carry the
  lesson far.” G. I. Colbron

       + =Pub W= 92:1375 O 20 ‘17 460w

  “As a novel the book holds its reader closely; as a novel with a
  purpose it is to be classed among the worth-while books of 1917.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 300w


=GALLATIN, ALBERT EUGENE.= Paul Manship; a critical essay on his
sculpture and an iconography. il *$5 Lane 735 17-12503

  “The future of sculpture [in America] at present lies in the hands of
  some half dozen acknowledged artists and many others who are gradually
  winning a reputation. One of the few who has gone ‘over the top’
  although quite a young man, is Paul Manship. ... In clear, concise
  terms, the author has summed up the art of Manship and placed him
  where he belongs. That is an art in itself. Further than this the
  dainty little volume contains a very complete iconography, accompanied
  by eight full-page illustrations, thoroughly representative pieces of
  sculpture having been selected for the purpose.” (Int Studio) The
  book, which is of a few pages only other than the illustrations, was
  printed at the Merrymount press, Boston, in an edition of one hundred
  and fifty copies.

  “The author is a past master in iconography, and employs a terse
  epigrammatic phraseology which clothes well his very individual views
  upon the artists of his choice.”

       + =Int Studio= 62:65 S ‘17 230w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:512 Je ‘17


=GALLICHAN, CATHERINE GASQUOINE (HARTLEY) (MRS WALTER M. GALLICHAN).=
Motherhood and the relationships of the sexes. *$2.50 (2½c) Dodd 176
17-14556

  This book, which the author had had in mind for some time, has been
  written and published during the war, because she believes that it has
  a vital bearing on present conditions in England. On the one hand, she
  sees the need of building up the population of a decimated country, on
  the other, she sees women crowding into occupations that are inimical
  to motherhood. She says, “The object of my book is two-fold. First, to
  put forward a fresh plea for assigning that high value to motherhood
  in practice which at present it receives only in words. ... In the
  second place, I wish to set forth what seem to be the chief causes
  that hitherto have hindered motherhood and bound my sex from the full
  enjoyment of life; and to suggest that the reason ... is due to
  women’s own actions, to their absurdly wrong education and entire
  misunderstanding of the sexual life.” The four parts of the book
  following the Introduction, which treats of the effects of the war,
  are: The maternal instinct in the making; The primitive family;
  Motherhood and the relationships of the sexes; Sexual education. There
  is a bibliography of several pages at the close.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:41 N ‘17

  “The whole book is an impassioned plea for enlightened motherhood, a
  reverence for and conservation of human life by women such as men and
  governments have never given it. It is a terrific indictment, not of
  the individual mother, but of the evils of civilisation.” Edna Kenton

       + =Bookm= 46:345 N ‘17 600w

         =Cleveland= p124 N ‘17 70w

  “She represents the older, motherly feminism with its rather
  self-conscious responsibility and its weakness in referring to
  criteria of biological science where only an artistic sense of
  personal relations should rule. Much unity and sanctity, the
  psychologists are discovering, could pass from the family without
  hurting it. Mrs Gallichan’s book moves too much in the realm of
  conventionalized emotions.” Randolph Bourne

     + — =Dial= 63:103 Ag 16 ‘17 450w

  “In this new book she brings her very thorough equipment as a scholar
  and a thinker to bear upon the conditions which the world must face as
  the result of the effects of the great war upon the race. Her work,
  therefore, is very timely and, although it is written with reference
  only to the British Isles, almost all that she says is quite as
  applicable to the United States.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:262 Jl 15 ‘17 550w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:700 O ‘17 20w

  “Child welfare workers who believe that ‘the welfare of the child is
  the one consideration that matters,’ will find much to interest them
  in this volume, especially the discussion of infant mortality, its
  relation to the employment of mothers and other prenatal conditions.”
  B. F. Johnson, M.D.

       + =Survey= 38:371 Jl 28 ‘17 370w

  “Readers of it will find that on a good many sides of the question she
  has something cogent to say; but they will get a little impatient with
  the large amount of space devoted to the sex life of animals and of
  primitive man. The lessons of war are at the moment much more
  interesting than any theories drawn from biology or anthropology.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p300 Je 21 ‘17 550w


=GALLISHAW, JOHN, and LYNCH, WILLIAM.= Man in the ranks. *$1 (8c)
Houghton 355 17-24714

  This book of advice for new recruits is written by a soldier who was
  at Gallipoli in 1915 and a sergeant instructor of the Plattsburg
  training camp. The advice is given under the headings: Getting started
  right; The first days in camp; Marksmanship; Keeping fit; A successful
  soldier; A talk on personal conduct; Tips from the trenches. There is
  a list of “Things to remember not to forget.” A number of pages at the
  end are left blank to be used as a diary, and a place is provided for
  addresses.


=GALSWORTHY, JOHN.= Beyond. *$1.50 (1½c) Scribner 17-22092

  When “Gyp” Winton was flowering into womanhood she overheard it said
  that Major Winton, her straight-thinking, straight-riding guardian was
  indeed her father. That knowledge influenced her attitude toward the
  world of society she was about to enter. He had answered her question
  about it simply and directly: “Yes, Gyp; your mother and I loved each
  other.” To Gyp, then, honesty, her music, and love were the three
  things needful. Against her father’s wishes she married Fiorsen, the
  gifted, moody, intemperate, wholly selfish Swedish violinist, only to
  discover later that their union was founded on passion on his side and
  a mistaken infatuation on hers. With all her strength she tried to
  keep the bargain she had made, but when he broke his marriage vow and
  in a fit of ungovernable temper maltreated their child, she left him
  and went back to her father and that simpler outdoor life to which she
  had been bred. Dreading the English divorce court, she did not legally
  free herself, and, when later, Bryan Summerhay came into her life and
  won her passionate affection she gave herself to him, believing that
  to her had come such undying love as she had seen her father hold for
  the mother who had died at her child’s birth. The weight of the past
  and oncoming tragedy in the book is relieved only by Gyp’s love for
  her daughter and Major Winton’s unquestioned, unflinching devotion to
  them both.

  “Mr Galsworthy’s latest novel is quite readable—and disappointing,
  because we expected something which we could strongly praise or
  severely criticize.”

     – + =Ath= p527 O ‘17 60w

  “Half concealed by his cold and reserved manner lurks, to put it
  frankly, the sex obsession of the sceptical bachelor.” H. W. Boynton

       — =Bookm= 46:339 N ‘17 180w

  “Although problems of sex have been utilized by Mr Galsworthy in the
  making of his novels, never before has he been so obsessed by them as
  in ‘Beyond.’ But for the graces of its style, ‘Beyond’ would be
  utterly negligible.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 25 ‘17 1600w

  “Those who see in the story only a sensational appeal to our sexual
  emotions miss the theme. It is the gospel according to Browning. Stake
  everything and pocket your losses without whimpering. Stoicism is an
  old philosophy, often enough repeated in abstract terms. The novelist
  here has shown real people, dominated by passion, terribly hurt by it,
  then dominant over their sorrow, and not so small as to indulge in
  regrets. It is a superb piece of work.” J: Macy

       + =Dial= 63:272 S 27 ‘17 1600w

  “It is an inconclusive book, and for that reason lacks the greatness
  that compels the reader’s sympathy for the actors in the tragedy.”

     + — =Ind= 91:473 S 22 ‘17 160w

  “Mr Galsworthy is not a treader in the gross and miry ways of sex; if
  he were, ‘The dark flower’ would have seemed to some of us a book less
  damnable. He is that more insidious influence, an eloquent and honest
  pleader from false premises.”

       — =Nation= 105:292 S 13 ‘17 700w

  “‘Beyond’ shows his usual firmness of structure and grace of style,
  but it adds nothing to his interpretation of life, does nothing to
  broaden or sweeten it.” H. W. Boynton

     – + =Nation= 105:600 N 29 ‘17 110w

  “As a Galsworthy performance, a novel out of the man who wrote ‘The
  island Pharisees’ and ‘Fraternity’ and ‘Strife’ and ‘Justice’ and ‘The
  mob’ and ‘A commentary’ and ‘The silver box,’ it is one of the most
  extraordinary bits of degeneracy, literary degeneracy, that was ever
  exposed. It is more facile than his other stories. It is quick and
  neat and fluent. It is dramatic. But its texture shows a complacency
  and flabbiness so amazing that one who sees the dedication to Thomas
  Hardy is inclined to look the other way.” F. H.

       — =New Repub= 12:194 S 15 ‘17 1750w

  “Poor fare from the author of ‘Justice’ and the ‘Man of property.’ One
  leaves the book with a feeling of futility.” F. J. K.

       — =N Y Call= p15 N 18 ‘17 950w

  “The story carries the reader on by the tense interest of its conflict
  of souls, their struggles to harmonize themselves with one another,
  and the breaking out from the self-imposed bonds now of one and now of
  another.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:310 Ag 26 ‘17 1300w

  “Of the essential indecency of Gyp’s course, its human and spiritual
  malfeasance, its blend of sentimentality and obtuseness, Mr Galsworthy
  reveals no consciousness. One has small affection for Fiorsen. But
  even the unlovable may justifiably resent betrayal; and it is our main
  quarrel with Mr Galsworthy that he seems to have no perception of the
  case that might be made out—that must be made out—for Fiorsen. Mr
  Galsworthy used to have a shrewd and vibrant sense of humor. It would
  not formerly have been easy to impeach him for artless banalities, for
  economy of thought, for undistinguished writing.” Lawrence Gilman

       — =No Am= 206:628 O ‘17 1700w

  “In quality and literary texture and in the apparently easy but really
  artful way in which the interest is sustained this novel has not been
  excelled by anything Mr Galsworthy has done. It is hard, however, to
  see what social conclusion is suggested or intended.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:64 S 12 ‘17 150w

  “The book is inferior to the author’s best work.”

       — =Pittsburgh= 22:749 N ‘17 40w

  “We confess to having been perfectly bored by Mr John Galsworthy’s
  last novel.”

       — =Sat R= 124:208 S 15 ‘17 650w

  “We wish that he would widen his view of life in his fiction as he has
  done in his plays, but we gladly recognize the high literary merit,
  the skilful construction, the play of humour and fancy, the adroit
  management of the chief situations in this new novel, which is in some
  respects the best that he has produced.”

     + — =Spec= 119:272 S 15 ‘17 520w

  “In Mr Galsworthy’s new novel the people fill us with alarm, because
  they appear all more or less under the influence of the great narcotic
  and therefore not quite responsible for their actions. They have been
  out hunting all day for so many generations that they are now
  perpetually in this evening condition of physical well-being and
  spiritual simplicity. This of course, is an exaggeration, but some
  theory of the kind must be fabricated to explain this rather queer
  book, ‘Beyond.’”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p415 Ag 30 ‘17 1450w


=GAMEWELL, MRS MARY NINDE (PORTER).= Gateway to China; pictures of
Shanghai. il *$1.50 Revell 915.1 17-206

  “‘The gateway to China’ is a descriptive work on Shanghai. The idea of
  a gateway comes from the investment of the city by France and Great
  Britain and the cosmopolitan character of its population. Each feature
  of the city’s history, from the time that Great Britain opened it as a
  port by treaty in 1842 to the present, passes in review. Police
  department, shops, schools, rickshas, streets, houses, hospitals,
  sanitation, press, factories, customs, present and ancient, are
  described from the standpoint of a resident rather than a
  visitor.”—Springf’d Republican

  “An uncommonly vivid piece of descriptive writing.”

       + =Ind= 88:410 D 4 ‘16 70w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 6 ‘17 130w

  “The book is decidedly interesting and entertaining.” Gertrude Seymour

       + =Survey= 37:614 F 24 ‘17 250w


=GANONG, WILLIAM FRANCIS.= Textbook of botany for colleges. il *$2.50
Macmillan 580 17-22350

  “The course outlined in this book is specifically designed as ‘an
  introductory course in botany,’ as ‘a part of a general education, and
  not as a preparation for a professional botanical career.’ ...
  Professor Ganong has not felt responsible for telling all known
  botanical facts about each topic discussed, since he has attempted
  rather to present major truths with enough morphological details to
  give a clear setting to the major truth.”—School R

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:295 Ap ‘17

       + =Bot Gaz= 63:323 Ap ‘17 300w

  “Prof. Ganong’s treatment is somewhat unconventional. The text makes
  easy reading, and is facilitated by a large number of good figures;
  but there is sometimes a suggestion of scrappiness.”

       + =Nature= 99:261 My 31 ‘17 550w

  “The book is an excellent contribution to our rapidly growing list of
  available texts for college botany and is the outcome of years of
  successful experience in teaching botany in a college [Smith] whose
  general courses in that science have become well known because of
  their effectiveness and attractiveness.” O. W. Caldwell

       + =School R= 24:778 D ‘16 600w


=GARDINER, ALFRED G. (ALPHA OF THE PLOUGH, pseud.).= Pebbles on the
shore. (Wayfarer’s library) *50c Dutton 824

  A series of essays first published in England. “Contents: On choosing
  a name; On letter-writing; On reading in bed; On cats and dogs; On
  seeing visions; On black sheep; The village and the war; On umbrella
  morals; On talking to one’s self; On Boswell and his miracle; On
  seeing ourselves; On the English spirit; On falling in love; On living
  again; On points of view; On the guinea stamp; On the dislike of
  lawyers; On the cheerfulness of the blind; On thoughts at fifty; On
  the philosophy of hats; On seeing London; On the intelligent golf
  ball; On a prisoner of war; On the world we live in; In praise of
  walking, etc.” (N Y Br Lib News)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:121 Ja ‘18

         =Ath= p675 D ‘17 30w

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 30 ‘17 750w

       + =Ind= 91:189 Ag 4 ‘17 90w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:123 Ag ‘17

       + =Spec= 119:sup549 N 17 ‘17 30w

  “He has a knack of being genially discursive without being trivial and
  of bringing a certain elevation of mind to bear upon his subject that
  shows his similarity to E. V. Lucas. The charm, the gentle modulated
  style is there. ... There is something to give pleasure on every
  page.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Je 21 ‘17 1050w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 20 ‘17 950w

  “Papers by a writer who has to the full the gift of ‘causerie.’ ... Mr
  Brock’s excellent pen and ink and head and tail pieces are a great
  addition.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p519 O 25 ‘17 40w


=GARDNER, LUCY=, ed. Hope for society; essays on social reconstruction
after the war. *3s G. Bell & sons, London 330.4 (Eng ed 17-18995)

  “These twelve essays were delivered as lectures at the
  Interdenominational summer school held at Swanwick, Derbyshire, from
  June 24 to July 3, 1916. The Bishop of Oxford contributes an essay on
  ‘The hope for society.’; and there are papers by Mr J. St G. Heath
  (’The new social conscience as to use of income’), Mr J. A. Hobson
  (’Industrial and financial conditions after the war’), Mr C. Roden
  Buxton (’The land question after the war’), Sir Hugh Bell
  (’Trade-union regulations: the employer’s point of view’), Mrs Pethick
  Lawrence (’The new outlook of the woman’s movement’), Miss Margaret
  Bondfield (’The position of women in industry’), and others.”—Ath

       + =Ath= p95 F ‘17 130w

  “Mr Christopher Turnor’s paper on the development of English life is
  especially valuable. On the social side, the papers contain many
  suggestions which deserve consideration in the reconstruction period.”
  M. J.

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:539 Jl ‘17 100w

       + =Spec= 118:276 Mr 3 ‘17 200w

  “The real educational value of these lectures is that they do not deal
  solely with collective measures of amelioration. ... Mr Clutton Brock,
  in his denunciation of the trash of civilization passed off as
  art—‘hankering after Bondstreet’ he calls it—goes to the heart of the
  matter when, with silence as to big legislative measures, he says, ‘If
  you want to make anybody good, make yourself.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p278 Je 14 ‘17 1350w


=GAREY, ENOCH BARTON, and ELLIS, OLIN O.= Junior Plattsburg manual. il
*$1.50 Century 355 17-26655

  The authors of the “Plattsburg manual,” captains in the United States
  infantry who were instructors in the Plattsburg training camp in 1916,
  have prepared this textbook on physical and military training for the
  use of the preparatory, public, and high schools of the United States.
  “Its further purpose is to assist in developing all young men of this
  country into good, efficient and patriotic citizens.” (Preface)
  Major-general John F. O’Ryan, chairman of the military training
  commission of the State of New York, draws attention in a foreword to
  the military and physical drill now legally required in the New York
  state schools and especially commends the clear style of the authors
  in setting forth the schools of the soldier, squads, and company, and
  the arrangement of the 250 illustrations by which it is shown how to
  do and how not to do the essential things. The chapter on Physical
  development can be of use to all. The chapters on Marching and camping
  and First aid to the injured with their practical directions will be
  widely read. The large type and clear printing are to be especially
  commended.

  “Well illustrated.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:5 O ‘17

  “Many excellent illustrations and diagrams make the directions in the
  text easy to follow.”

       + =Cleveland= p119 N ‘17 20w

         =Lit D= 55:54 D 8 ‘17 110w

         =N Y P L New Tech= Bks p14 Jl ‘17 20w

       + =N Y Times= 22:379 O 7 ‘17 170w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:695 O ‘17 50w

         =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 30w


=GARIS, HOWARD ROGER.= Venture boys afloat; or, The wreck of the Fausta.
il *$1.25 (2c) Harper 17-28657

  Tom Ware, Dick Parker and Harry Nolan, three boys who live in a Hudson
  river town, are saving money to buy a motor boat. Their plan is to
  cruise up and down the river. But an invitation from Tom’s uncle, a
  seaman, takes them on a much more ambitious voyage, down the Atlantic
  coast. This trip is taken for pleasure, but in Tom’s heart is the hope
  that they may overtake his father’s wrecked schooner, the “Fausta,”
  now derelict somewhere in southern waters, and his hope is rewarded
  after an exciting race with a government derelict destroyer.
  Incidentally the boys learn something of American history. The book is
  the first of a series.

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

         =Bookm= 46:498 D ‘17 80w

         =N Y Times= 22:466 N 11 ‘17 150w


=GARLAND, HAMLIN.= Son of the middle border. il *$1.60 Macmillan
17-22272

  “‘A son of the middle border’ is Mr Garland’s view of himself and of
  the life he encountered along a vista that has seen one era after
  another of American progress give place to its successor. It is,
  moreover, a story of the advance of an American boy which is none the
  less miraculous because it has been repeated so often in our
  history. ... He was born in 1860 and his infancy and early childhood
  coincided with the most critical period in American history. His
  father, who had come to Wisconsin from Maine, after three years of
  work in Boston, enlisted in the Union army in 1863, and among the
  boy’s earliest recollections is the memory of his return. ... Scene
  after scene of his childhood, face after face out of a past rich in
  recollections, Mr Garland brings before us, as his father restlessly
  moved westward from Wisconsin to Minnesota, from Minnesota to Iowa,
  and from Iowa to Dakota. ... With his brother Franklin he went on his
  adventure into the east. ... This was in 1883, when Mr Garland was
  twenty-three years of age. His real invasion of Boston came a little
  later. ... For nearly ten years he was a Bostonian, winning his way
  against obstacles that would have daunted many a less ambitious young
  man. ... Finally he became a professional man of letters.”—Boston
  Transcript

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:57 N ‘17

  “So understanding and skilful a portrayal of characteristic spiritual
  values gives the book added importance, makes it a contribution to our
  social history that is well worth while. As autobiography, it is an
  original and distinctive piece of work and illustrates the
  possibilities of varied and unique treatment to be found in the
  writing of American biography.” F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 46:327 N ‘17 430w

  “‘A son of the middle border’ has all the charm of the novels and
  short stories by Mr Garland and other writers which have depicted the
  valiant struggles of the ambitious boy who is able to look beyond the
  border of the world of his upbringing. ... Valuable and encouraging is
  his story, but it is more than that. It is a contribution to American
  autobiographical literature,” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 1750w

  “Mr Garland is unusually successful in his portraits of his father and
  mother. A notable memorial of a bygone phase of American life.”

       + =Cleveland= p126 N ‘17 90w

  “A biography must necessarily be a life seen thru a temperament and
  experiences that would have been a matter of course or even
  interesting to a ‘born farmer,’ or a biologist revolted the bookish
  lad whose tastes were cultural and never agricultural. And the man
  with a real love for the farm does not write books about it. With this
  reservation ‘A son of the middle border’ seems to us a great and a
  true book; a contribution to our annals of the settlement of our
  country.”

       + =Ind= 92:256 N 3 ‘17 830w

  “There are hardly enough life and inspiration in the narrative to
  warrant its being so long, but its directness and honest purpose
  deserve a reading, altho it is a life much like many other lives.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:42 O 27 ‘17 120w

       + =Lit D= 56:36 Ja 26 ‘18 140w

  “The autobiographer is a rarer bird than the novelist; and we believe
  that this record may take its place among the handful of American
  classics of its kind.”

     + — =Nation= 105:719 D 27 ‘17 1650w

  “Mr Garland’s best work, like ‘Main-travelled roads,’ was built
  directly out of the stones of his autobiographical quarry. But how
  much more vivid and alluring is the quarry than the constructed short
  stories and novels. The inventive writer, after long struggling with
  stiff fictional forms, suddenly discovers himself as his own best
  artistic form and material and bursts out into the freshest of
  self-revelations, without self-consciousness and yet with an insight
  that makes silly the legend that the American has no talent for
  introspection and resents its expression.” R. B.

       + =New Repub= 12:333 O 20 ‘17 2900w

  “In all the region of autobiography, so far as I know it, I do not
  know quite the like of Mr Garland’s story of his life, and I should
  rank it with the very greatest of that kind in literature. ... As you
  read it you realize it the memorial of a generation, of a whole order
  of American experience; as you review it you perceive it an epic of
  such mood and make as has not been imagined before.” W: D. Howells

       + =N Y Times= 22:309 Ag 26 ‘17 3200w

  “Nothing could be more American than the mingling of practicality and
  idealism that is felt everywhere in the story. Nothing could be more
  wholesome in these times than the lesson of intellectual honesty and
  large sympathy which is implicit in it.”

       + =No Am= 206:796 N ‘17 480w

  “An autobiography with the fascination of romance, and in a measure
  the form of fiction. ... It is a book well worth reading and
  rereading.”

       + =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 50w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:743 N ‘17 60w

  “Those who lived in rural Wisconsin, Iowa, and the Dakotas during
  those days will remark the striking fidelity of the picture. There
  were so many Garland families in the border movement of the ‘60’s,
  ‘70’s, and ‘80’s of the last century!”

       + =R of Rs= 56:439 O ‘17 140w

  “Mr Garland has written a book deserving of a wide reading, and likely
  to get it by virtue of the style in which it is written. The narrative
  flows easily—a little diffusely, in fact—with a great fund of
  incidents, keen observations and incisive, albeit idealized portraits
  of character. Perhaps the best work in the last of those categories is
  the picture of his mother. She represents a memorable type of American
  womanhood—tender mother, brave, uncomplaining pioneer woman and
  splendid wife.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 23 ‘17 3600w


=GARRISON, MRS THEODOSIA (PICKERING).= Dreamers, and other poems. *$1.25
Doran 811 17-28183

  This is a collection of lyrical poems previously printed in seventeen
  different periodicals. Seven Irish poems are given at the end of the
  book, under the title “Songs of himself.”

  “The verse of Theodosia Garrison is restful; it is a retreat, a haven
  from the tumult of today’s singing. She invites you to partake of her
  quiet dreams and unpretentious fancies, much as a friend invites you
  to the hearthside to pass a tranquil evening. If one is not thrilled,
  one is at least soothed by her hospitality. Little by little you
  become aware of something in the experience that has a fineness and
  distinction of its own.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 7 ‘17 630w

  Reviewed by Conrad Aiken

       — =Dial= 63:513 N 22 ‘17 400w

  “In her ‘Dreamers, and other poems’ Theodosia Garrison has given us
  some of her best work.”

       + =Lit D= 56:34 Ja 5 ‘18 200w


=GARVIN, JOHN WILLIAM=, ed. Canadian poets and poetry. il *$3 Stokes
811.08 17-10982

  An anthology of Canadian verse with brief biographical sketches of the
  fifty-one authors represented. The editor says of these authors: “Many
  of their poems are indigenous to the soil,—vitally, healthfully
  Canadian; others are tinged with the legendary and mythical lore of
  older lands; but all are of Canada, inasmuch as the writers have lived
  in this country, and have been influenced by its history and
  atmosphere at a formative period of their lives.” Among those whose
  names are somewhat widely known outside their own country are: Charles
  G. D. Roberts, Bliss Carman, William Henry Drummond, Isabel Ecclestone
  Mackay, Marjorie L. C. Pickthall, Arthur Stringer and Robert W.
  Service.

  “About twenty of these poets are not included in the ‘Oxford book of
  Canadian verse’ (Booklist 10:385 Je ‘14), which includes the work of
  one hundred poets from earliest colonial days down to the present.
  Libraries having the ‘Oxford book’ will not need this unless there is
  special interest.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:390 Je ‘17

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:62 Ap ‘17 140w

       + =N Y Times= 22:124 Ap 1 ‘17 350w


=GATES, ELEANOR (MRS FREDERICK FERDINAND MOORE).= Apron-strings. *$1.35
(2c) Sully & Kleinteich 17-29731

  The two central figures in this story are Mrs Milo and her daughter
  Sue. Mrs Milo is the type of mother described by the author in a
  prefatory note: “The kind that does not plan for, or want, a child,
  but, having borne one, invariably takes the high air of martyrdom
  feeling that she has rendered the supreme service, and that,
  henceforth, nothing is too good for her.” Her demands on her daughter
  have kept the girl from marriage, and as a woman of forty-five, Sue is
  finding what satisfaction she can in mothering an orphanage. In the
  end she finds a more intimate happiness in adopting one of the
  children for her own.

  “As a character study, built around the leading character, the book
  presents reasonable claim to favorable notice. Mrs Milo, the managing
  and domineering mother, is a real literary creation.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 260w

  “Miss Gates’s theme is an interesting one, but she treats it
  sentimentally and thereby fails to give it the effectiveness which is
  its due.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:490 N 25 ‘17 470w


=GATES, HERBERT WRIGHT.=[2] Recreation and the church. (Principles and
methods of religious education) il *$1 (3c) Univ. of Chicago press 261
17-15665

  There has been started a strong movement in the direction of making
  churches social centers. The experiments enlarged upon in this volume
  show the value of the wider use of churches. The writer who is
  director of religious education in the Brick church institute,
  Rochester, N.Y., contends that there is no more potent influence or
  favorable approach to the inner life of childhood and youth than is
  found in recreational interests and activities. He shows the religious
  educational value of play, shows how to go about studying the
  recreational needs of a community, offers a constructive recreational
  program, gives some typical church programs and devotes a chapter to
  equipment and organization.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:156 F ‘18

  “A bibliography of play and recreation enhances the value of this very
  useful handbook, which cannot fail to increase the efficiency of
  educational and recreational workers in the church and elsewhere.” G.
  T.

       + =Survey= 39:327 D 15 ‘17 240w


=GAUTIER, JUDITH.= Memoirs of a white elephant; tr. from the French by
S. A. B. Harvey. il *$1.50 (3½c) Duffield 16-23442

  Judith Gautier, who was joint author with Pierre Loti of “The daughter
  of heaven,” is an authority on oriental lore. She has written this
  book for children, allowing “Iravata,” the white elephant, to tell his
  own story.

  “Well told and unaffected.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:269 Mr ‘17

       + =Lit D= 53:1562 D 9 ‘16 100w

  “The excellent illustrations are the work of L. H. Smith and S. B.
  Kite.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:102 Ja ‘17 60w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 2 ‘16 160w


=GAYLEY, CHARLES MILLS.=[2] Shakespeare and the founders of liberty in
America. *$1.50 (2c) Macmillan 822.3 18-3

  The writer says: “In this period of conflict, the sternest that the
  world has known, when we have joined heart and hand with Great
  Britain, it may profit Americans to recall how essentially at one with
  Englishmen we have always been in everything that counts. That the
  speech, the poetry, of the race are ours and theirs in common, we
  know—they are Shakespeare. But that the institutions, the law and the
  liberty, the democracy administered by the fittest, are not only
  theirs and ours in common, but are derived from Shakespeare’s England,
  and are Shakespeare, too, we do not generally know or, if we have
  known, we do not always remember.” The chapter headings suggest how
  the writer has pursued his novel idea: The foundations of liberty in
  America; Shakespeare and the liberals of the Virginia company; The
  tempest and an unpublished letter from Virginia; The leader of the
  liberal movement—Sir Edwin Sandys; Richard Hooker and the principles
  of American liberty; Shakespeare’s views of the individual in relation
  to the state; Shakespeare and Hooker; The heritage in common: England,
  America, France; The meaning for us today.

  “His association of Shakspeare with these ideas [suggested by chapter
  headings] of course takes it for granted that whenever any of his
  characters speak in the plays, there speak also the inmost thoughts
  and beliefs of the dramatist. This is a supposition too often made to
  prove that a dramatist or a poet is first of all a propagandist or a
  preacher when as a matter of fact he is neither. It overlooks the
  first principles of imaginative writing—that a poem, a play or a novel
  is a work written to present a certain phase of life in artistic form
  and not to promulgate a theory. If Shakspeare was preaching democracy
  in his plays then so much the less Shakspeare he. Despite the
  undoubted ingenuity and historical interest of Professor Gayley’s
  arguments there are many of us who will remain perfectly willing to
  look upon Shakspeare as a man who wrote his plays with no other
  thought than to have them receive the approval and applause of the
  Elizabethan public.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p11 D 12 ‘17 830w

         =R of Rs= 57:216 F ‘18 90w


=GEARY, BLANCHE.= Handbook of the association cafeteria. il pa 50c
Y.W.C.A. 642 17-20661

  This handbook gives the purpose of a Y.W.C.A. cafeteria and outlines
  its organization, including committees, selection of premises, general
  equipment, staff and employees, menu, service and cleaning. It treats
  of business administration and under the heading Points in policy
  advises on such subjects as Emergency fund, Eight hour day, Outside
  business, etc. The book is compiled by those who know the needs of the
  workers whom the cafeteria is to serve and can detail clearly methods
  for meeting them.


=GEHRS, JOHN HENRY.= Productive agriculture. il *$1 Macmillan 630
17-14154

  “The purpose of this book is to meet the need and the demand for a
  text that will standardize seventh- and eighth-grade agriculture. ...
  Topics relating to productive agriculture and not topics about
  agriculture are given chief consideration. ... The book contains a
  section of from four to eight chapters in length on each of the
  following big topics: ‘Farm crops,’ ‘Animal husbandry,’ ‘Soils,’
  ‘Horticulture,’ and ‘Farm management.’ There is also a brief
  bibliography of material relating to each of these large topics. The
  laboratory exercises at the end of each chapter ... can be done with a
  minimum amount of schoolroom equipment, the farm itself furnishing the
  requisite laboratory.” (School R) The author is associate professor of
  agriculture of the Warrensburg State normal school, Warrensburg, Mo.

       + =Ind= 91:265 Ag 16 ‘17 40w

         =St Louis= 15:330 S ‘17

  “Anyone interested in texts in agriculture adapted to grades seven and
  eight or to the junior high school will be well paid for the time and
  effort required to give this book a careful consideration.”

       + =School R= 25:532 S ‘17 180w


=GEIKIE, SIR ARCHIBALD.= Birds of Shakespeare. il *$1.25 Macmillan 822.3
(Eng ed 17-13372)

  “In this charming essay the veteran geologist collects Shakespeare’s
  references to birds, of which he names at least fifty species, and
  shows once more how intimate a knowledge of wild nature he had
  acquired in the woods and lanes of leafy Warwickshire.”—Spec

         =Ath= p432 S ‘16 90w

  “It is all that it claims to be, and will fill a vacant place on the
  shelves of those who do not possess Mr J. E. Harting’s standard work.”

       + =Nature= 98:147 O 28 ‘16 480w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:40 Mr ‘17

         =Sat R= 123:sup10 Mr 31 ‘17 120w

  “Twenty excellent woodcuts from Saunders’s ‘Manual of British birds’
  illustrate the book.”

       + =Spec= 117:419 O 7 ‘16 70w

  “This little book is enticing; one to be read by all who love either
  birds or Shakespeare or both.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p426 S 7 ‘16 1300w


=GEIL, WILLIAM EDGAR.= Adventures in the African jungle hunting pigmies.
il *$1.35 (2c) Doubleday 17-8202

  This book for boys is one of the volumes of “The true adventure
  series.” The author is an explorer of note and the story is based on
  first-hand acquaintance with Africa. Billy Benson, a boy of about
  sixteen, accompanies his uncle on an exploring expedition into the
  heart of Africa. Their object is to discover a band of pigmies,
  supposed to inhabit a part of the jungle. Lions, leopards, elephants
  and other natives of the African forest play a part in their
  adventures. The young hero is refreshingly boyish. No feats of
  impossible prowess are attributed to him, and never does he outdo his
  uncle, the noted explorer, in sagacity or achievement.


=GENEVOIX, MAURICE.= ‘Neath Verdun; tr. by H. Grahame Richards. *$1.60
(2½c) Stokes 940.91 (Eng ed 17-26253)

  The author of this book was a second-year student at the École
  normale, Paris, in 1914. His book is a day-by-day account of the first
  months of the war, from August to October, 1914. Ernest Lavisse says
  in his introduction: “He supplies us with an invaluable picture of the
  war. In the first place, the writer is endowed with astonishing powers
  of observation; he sees all in a glance, he hears everything. The
  intense power of concentration he possesses enables him instantly to
  seize upon all essentials of a particular incident or scene, and so to
  harmonize them as to produce a picture true to life.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:306 Ap ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 14 ‘17 250w

  “His book is one of the real contributions of the war’s writing. For
  here, for us to read and learn from, is something of the war itself.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:34 F 4 ‘17 600w

  “Perhaps it is well that the ghastly side of the war should not be
  tucked away as though it did not exist. Horror is treated here with a
  French power of rhetoric and insistence.”

       + =Spec= 118:105 Ja 27 ‘17 150w


=GEORGE, HEREFORD BROOKE.= Genealogical tables illustrative of modern
history. 5th ed, rev and enl *$2.50 Oxford 929.7 16-22139

  “The ‘Genealogical tables illustrative of modern history’ first
  published by the late Rev. Hereford B. George more than forty years
  ago have long acquired and deserved an established position as a work
  of reference. They now appear in a fifth edition, revised and enlarged
  by Mr J. R. H. Weaver. The enlargement consists mainly in the
  continuation of the reigning houses down to their last changes and the
  insertion of their younger members; there is also added a list of the
  presidents of the United States of America.”—Eng Hist R

  “The size of the print and the general openness of the tables make
  them easy to consult and the book should enter upon a further career
  of usefulness.”

       + =Am Hist R= 22:435 Ja ‘17 200w

  “The work of correction has been carefully done: we have looked for
  facts omitted in the earlier editions and have found them duly
  inserted. ... In the first three editions the tables were folded and
  mounted on guards, and the book was easy to handle; now that the
  tables are bound up flat and the book requires 2 ft. 8 in. of space to
  open out, it cannot be described as convenient for practical use.” R.
  L. P.

 *     + =Eng Hist R= 31:660 O ‘16 450w


=GEPHART, WILLIAM FRANKLIN.= Principles of insurance. 2v ea *$1.50 (1½c)
Macmillan 368 17-2500

  “A discussion of life and fire insurance offered for classroom use in
  schools and colleges. ... The author has had experience in the
  insurance business and in association with insurance organizations, as
  well as in teaching.” (R of Rs) “There are two volumes, devoted,
  respectively, to Life insurance and Fire insurance, the former
  replacing the author’s well-known earlier work, devoted mainly to life
  insurance, which has now been thoroughly revised, amplified, and
  brought down to date. The volume on fire insurance contains twelve
  chapters in which are treated such pertinent topics as the economics
  and business organization of fire insurance, hazards, rates and rating
  problems, the nature of the contract, adjustment of losses, fire
  protection, and the relation of the state to insurance.” (Nation)

  “Mr Gephart has well met the problem. His book is simple and readable
  and yet broad, and adequate to give not only an understanding of the
  fundamental principles but a great deal of the practical business
  side. The book avoids a difficulty which sometimes occurs when those
  outside of the business attempt to write about it: namely, the
  difficulty of supporting theories which, for practical reasons, are
  unworkable. The arrangement is a little unfortunate.” W. M. Strong

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:670 S ‘17 1100w (Review of v 1)

  “It would be too much to claim that the author has entirely mastered a
  subject of which the depths have by no means been sounded by those who
  spend their lives in the work or that all of his statements would pass
  without challenge from underwriters, but it is certain that he has
  written a clear, interesting, and admirably balanced study of the
  principles of fire insurance.” W. E. Mallalieu

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:672 S ‘17 900w (Review of v 2)

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:376 Je ‘17

  “The volume on life insurance is on the whole a contribution to the
  subject, the various topics being carefully arranged and the
  exposition clear. One may seriously object, however, to the issuance
  of a revised edition which does not follow the progress in the
  business in certain directions. The volume on fire insurance appears
  to possess certain serious defects as well as commendable features.
  The strongest criticism which can be advanced, viewing it in the light
  of a text, is its seeming lack of plan and arrangement of chapters.
  Prior to his work no adequate description of some of the more recent
  developments of the business was available. He has therefore rendered
  a service in producing a relatively up-to-date textbook. Secondly, he
  has incorporated to a greater degree than any other writer a
  discussion of fire insurance from the social viewpoint.” Robert Riegel

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 74:296 N ‘17 400w

  “Though adapted to the purposes of the general reader, the business
  man, and the student, the volumes will, in all probability, find their
  chief use as textbooks, for which they seem excellently adapted. At
  the close of the various chapters are lists of references covering the
  main topics treated, and each volume contains a carefully selected
  general bibliography, including the standard works on both life and
  fire insurance.”

       + =Nation= 104:245 Mr 1 ‘17 230w

  “Those seeking and those selling insurance would profit by this
  conservative statement of principles which fit the reader for his
  individual decision of moot points, which are frankly indicated and
  argued fairly.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:174 Ap 29 ‘17 180w

  “Heretofore it has been difficult to obtain material on this subject
  in convenient form for educational purposes. Most of it has been
  confined to government documents, official reports of insurance
  companies, published addresses, and pamphlets.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:443 Ap ‘17 70w

  “The author is professor of economics in Washington university.”

         =St Louis= 15:139 My ‘17 9w

  “There are interesting chapters on the economics, business
  organization and, last but not least, the immense historic development
  of the insurance business.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 30 ‘17 110w


=GÉRALDY, PAUL.= The war, Madame ...; tr. by Barton Blake. *75c (5c)
Scribner 17-8886

  This little story is merely an account of one day in the life of a
  French soldier who, after thirteen months of service, returns to
  Paris. His sensations on again finding himself in his loved city are
  described, and in conversations with two of his women friends scenes
  from the front are pictured.

  “A lively, graceful, quite irresponsible and unreflecting narrative of
  a young soldier’s last day of leave in Paris before returning to the
  front to be killed.” C. M. Francis

       + =Bookm= 46:451 D ‘17 140w

  “As we read his pages, we understand more clearly than ever before how
  it is possible for men to go through the ghastly struggle and not come
  out thoroughly embittered. ... This account seems to approach nearer
  to the probable mean of reality than any of the many war books that
  have already been written.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 4 ‘17 770w

  “So different is it from the France and the Paris of which
  correspondents and returning war-workers of one sort or another have
  told us that, since it is written by a Frenchman, one marvels and
  wonders whether he is a better observer and a truer reporter than
  they.”

         =N Y Times= 22:172 Ap 29 ‘17 300w

         =St Louis= 15:314 S 17 30w


=GERARD, JAMES WATSON.= My four years in Germany. il *$2 (2c) Doran
940.91 17-25143

  The late ambassador to the German imperial court has written this
  account of his four years experience to prove to America that “we are
  in this war because we were forced into it,” and that “unless Germany
  is beaten the whole world will be compelled to turn itself into an
  armed camp, until the German autocracy either brings every nation
  under its dominion or is forever wiped out as a form of government.”
  (Foreword) Mr Gerard tells us about the political system in Germany,
  German militarism, German commerce, the Kaiser, the Crown prince, and
  various high officials of the government, and about his own diplomatic
  work, though he is necessarily silent on many things connected with
  this work. Some of the chapters are: Psychology and causes which
  prepared the nation for war; At Kiel just before the war; Prisoners of
  war; War charities; and The German people in war. There are a number
  of illustrations and several facsimile reproductions of documents,
  among them one of the much discussed telegram which the Kaiser gave
  Ambassador Gerard for transmission to President Wilson. The material
  of the book has appeared in the Philadelphia Ledger and the New York
  American.

  “One must remember that the author has written for a large audience.
  From this point of view, Mr Gerard’s light treatment is quite
  justified, as are also the journalistic, popular style, the frequent
  use of the personal pronoun, and perhaps even the reproductions of
  court invitations. For such a presentation will appeal to millions who
  would ignore a more formidable treatise. Unfortunately the mechanics
  of the book are poorly handled.” B. E. Schmitt

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:398 Ja ‘18 1650w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:56 N ‘17

  “His book is a candid, unadorned, and convincing account of what has
  been going on in Germany during the war. His record is welcome in this
  permanent form.”

       + =Ath= p683 D ‘17 190w

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

         =Bookm= 46:286 N ‘17 50w

     + — =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 140w

       + =Dial= 63:460 N 8 ‘17 230w

  “From a literary point of view the book is a queer mixture, much of it
  the sort of thing that ordinary tourists turn out by the volume, part
  of diplomatic secrets of the highest importance which nobody else
  could have known. The book is poorly composed and carelessly revised,
  but that does not detract from its importance as a historical document
  of the first order.”

     + — =Ind= 92:486 D 8 ‘17 1250w

  “It is in every respect an important historical document, despite the
  chatty and easy style in which it is written, and throws an
  illuminating light upon many dark places in European diplomacy and
  modes of thought. His book will furnish convincing proof, if any
  American still feels the need of proof, of the sinister intentions of
  the ruling powers in Germany, and of their utter disregard of all
  recognized conventions, ethical or political, in an effort to attain
  their ambitions.”

       + =Lit D= 55:34 O 27 ‘17 1800w

       + =Lit D= 55:43 D 8 ‘17 250w

  “We think the telling of this story was a service to the American
  people; and at a time when there is so much to be read that this is
  distinctly one of the books to be chosen. The description of German
  government and institutions is excellent; it would be difficult for
  the ordinary reader to find anywhere a better popular account. The
  most important chapters relate to diplomatic affairs, and to the
  attitude of Germany towards the American people.”

       + =Nation= 105:484 N 1 ‘17 1750w

  “In Mr Gerard’s remarkable book there is an enlightening chapter which
  reveals, to some extent, how organised capital in Germany, aided by
  the state, is still seeking to dominate the world.” T. E. Thorpe

       + =Nature= 100:361 Ja 10 ‘18 1900w

  “All this variety gives the book, inevitably, a certain scrappiness of
  effect, but vastly increases its interest and value as a report upon
  another nation. Its report, by necessity, is one of superficial
  observation. Mr Gerard nowhere makes pretense of profound study of the
  German people or their affairs.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:378 O 7 ‘17 1000w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:762 N ‘17 50w

  “Considering its source and timeliness, such a book would in any event
  have real significance, but there is a danger that the general reading
  public will seek that significance in the wrong place. The real value
  of what Mr Gerard has to tell us lies entirely aside from the personal
  equation. ... Spicy as this book is, it leaves a somewhat tantalizing
  impression that the author has reserved a good deal of his most
  piquant matter for publication some time in the dim future.” F: T.
  Cooper

       + =Pub W= 92:1383 O 20 ‘17 600w

  “The volume carries with it its own justification. ... There is a
  straightforward sincerity about this book that must impress all
  readers. While it condemns Germany, it does not appeal to the spirit
  of hatred.” A. S.

       + =R of Rs= 56:528 N ‘17 800w

       + =Spec= 119:572 N 17 ‘17 170w

  “The book is of more value from a historical viewpoint than as mere
  literature. The author has something to tell that the public wants to
  know and in such case substance takes precedence of form.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 800w

  “To English readers the most interesting pages in the book will
  probably be those in which the ambassador relates his efforts to
  alleviate the lot of British prisoners.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p547 N 15 ‘17 950w


German deserter’s war experience; tr. by J. Koettgen. *$1 (1½c) Huebsch
940.91 17-13674

  The author is a German Socialist and anti-militarist, who after
  fourteen months of fighting in Belgium and France escaped into Holland
  and came to America. His story was first published in the New Yorker
  Volkszeitung. He describes the entry into Belgium, the advance and
  retreat at the Marne, the beginning of trench warfare, the famous
  Christmas truce, etc. The translator says, “The chief value of this
  soldier’s narrative lies in his destructive, annihilating criticism of
  the romance and fabled virtues of war.” The author, in concluding,
  says, “Today I have recovered sufficiently to take up again in the
  ranks of the American Socialists the fight against capitalism. ... A
  relentless struggle to the bitter end is necessary to show the ruling
  war-provoking caste who is the stronger, so that it no longer may be
  in the power of that class to provoke such a murderous war as that in
  which the working-class of Europe is now bleeding to death.”

  “Written with a strong anti-militarist and socialist bias.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:443 Jl ‘17

  “The writer’s deep hatred of war and all its works, not only the
  actual bloodshed and cruelty, but also the unnatural and humiliating
  relations of men to officers in the German army itself, speaks in
  every page. The whole story is told with the vividness that comes of
  recent deep and indelible impressions of soul-stirring experiences.”

       + =Dial= 63:401 O 25 ‘17 160w

  “He accuses his officers of both deliberate cruelty and cowardice,
  giving instances in the advance on the Marne, and flight from it, to
  sustain his charges. This part of his book is an astounding
  revelation. He asserts on several occasions the men refused to obey
  orders to shoot wounded enemy soldiers and helpless civilians, and
  were more tortured than punished for such insubordination.”

       + =Ind= 90:472 Je 9 ‘17 200w

  “It will rekindle our determination not to become swamped in the war
  to the point where we forget our chief purpose—not defeat of Germany
  so much as defeat of war as an institution. ... ‘A German deserter’s
  war experience,’ with its directness and almost clumsy sincerity, is a
  chastening and thrilling book for all of us, but it is as a symbol of
  revolt that one will not wish to forget it.” H. S.

       + =New Repub= 11:193 Je 16 ‘17 1050w

  “The volume is the output of a very keen observer, a man who kept his
  wits about him in every possible situation and was able to recount
  what he saw afterwards. ... The volume is one of the best descriptive
  works that we have yet seen on this subject. ... Much praise is due
  the translator, Comrade J. Koettgen, for a careful and yet spirited
  account of war as seen through the eyes of a Socialist participant.”
  J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 My 20 ‘17 1050w

         =N Y Times= 22:306 Ag 19 ‘17 120w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:681 O ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p40 O ‘17 40w

  “The writer is a man of the people, a foreman miner, and tells his
  story straightforwardly, intelligently and without conscious art. ...
  Of widest interest are the detailed descriptions of the advance thru
  Belgium, the battle of the Marne and the retreat. There have been
  numerous accounts of these events by French witnesses and by newspaper
  men who have repeated the tales of participants, but, except for the
  official German account, this book is the first to come from that
  side.”

       + =Pub W= 91:210 Ja 20 ‘17 150w

         =R of Rs= 55:668 Je ‘17 80w

  “Whether true or not—and the balance swings in favor of the
  affirmative, it is an absorbing story.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 13 ‘17 280w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p596 D 6 ‘17 650w


=GEROULD, GORDON HALL.= Peter Sanders, retired. *$1.50 (1½c) Scribner
17-11709

  When his gambling house in New York was closed down, Peter Sanders
  became a wanderer. He was a gentleman of quiet tastes, and a lover of
  books, with a leaning toward the classics. He meets adventures in
  various parts of Europe, but his inclinations call him back to
  America, even tho his return means the hiding of his identity under a
  false name. Accompanied by his faithful servant, Henry, he becomes
  familiar with corners of his native land before unknown to him. He
  makes new friends too and comes to think better of his fellow men than
  he had in the old days when he saw them only thru a gambler’s eyes.
  Finally when he is reinstated in New York, it is to find that he has
  become a new man and that the old ways no longer hold any charm for
  him.

  “A leisurely tale ‘gay without vapidity and adventurous without
  sensationalism.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:60 N ‘17

  “What we assist at is a gradual change in point of view and emphasis
  rather than a radical change of character.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:410 Je ‘17 650w

  “This Mr Silcox is a very credible old gentleman. ... The thing that
  is not quite believable is Peter Sanders. ... We feel sure that,
  although many a novelist has done worse, Mr Gerould could have done
  far better.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 300w

  “Thoroughly to enjoy it, one should know that Mr Gerould is a college
  professor; his interest in ex-gamblers gains piquancy from this fact.”

       + =Dial= 63:73 Jl 19 ‘17 330w

  “The story (which is not, we suspect, without its foundation in fact)
  is in its way a romance, and long before we are done with him we have
  formed a proper romantic affection for its stout and aging hero.”

       + =Nation= 104:580 My 10 ‘17 350w

  “The novel is written with a sense of irony which gives it a certain
  pungency.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:163 Ap 22 ‘17 300w

  “The story is well written and gently humorous. The resemblance of Mr
  Sanders to a noted New York gambler lately deceased is striking.”

       + =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 60w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 8 ‘17 400w


=GEROULD, KATHARINE (FULLERTON) (MRS GORDON HALL GEROULD).= Change of
air. il *$1.25 Scribner 17-25861

  “The book opens with a scene in the drawing rooms of Miss Cordelia
  Wheaton. Miss Wheaton, a rich woman, had a very large number of poor
  friends, and she had sent for them all to come to her house on a
  certain day. There they sit at the beginning of the first chapter;
  ‘and they waited, unprotesting; for they were all poor.’ At last, when
  the rooms are full, Miss Wheaton appears and makes the surprising
  announcement that she has decided to divide the greater part of her
  fortune among them at once, instead of doing it in her will. Each is
  to receive a certain sum—how much no one of the others will ever know.
  She carries out her plan, and the effect of this ‘windfall’ upon the
  lives and characters of some few of her beneficiaries, and ultimately
  upon Miss Wheaton herself, form the theme—or perhaps it would be
  better to say the themes—of the book.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:131 Ja ‘18

  “To Walter Leaven we owe the story’s rescue from bitter comedy to a
  finale of exquisite romance. It is his figure, treading devotedly
  towards its goal of self-realisation through self-devotion, that makes
  a story out of what might otherwise have been a mere group of
  satirical episodes.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:691 F ‘18 590w

       + =Nation= 105:695 D 20 ‘17 220w

  “Though there are frequent fine penetrations in her account of people,
  and a sharp wit to clinch the penetration, she has a constant tendency
  to substitute the values of polite society for the values that a
  genuine artist would discern. Her bristling smartness, her
  complaisance, her snobbishness, are difficult traits to tolerate in a
  novelist of manners.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:223 D 22 ‘17 650w

  “The book is very short, very clever, very cynical.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:394 O 14 ‘17 800w

  “A good story idea only moderately well carried out.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:386 N 7 ‘17 50w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:749 N ‘17 30w

  Reviewed by Doris Webb

       + =Pub W= 92:2028 D 8 ‘17 280w

  “It is all very brilliant, but one shudders to see life chiseled with
  such delicate scalpels and with so sure and unashamed a pagan touch.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 18 ‘17 480w


=GERRISH, FREDERIC HENRY.= Sex-hygiene; a talk to college boys. (Present
day problems ser.) *60c (8c) Badger, R: G. 612.6 17-13326

  “In 1911 there was given to Bowdoin college a fund the income of which
  was to be devoted to the instruction of the students in the proper
  relations of the sexes. As a part of this instruction the following
  lecture has been given to the freshman class of each succeeding year.
  It has been given, also, in a number of other institutions for the
  education of young men and boys.” (Preface) The lecturer is professor
  emeritus of surgery at Bowdoin college, and author of several standard
  medical books.

         =Cleveland= p91 Jl ‘17 50w

  “One of the most useful books of its kind. ... It is plain and direct
  and is without an excess of detail. ... Bowdoin college has announced
  that it is going to give a copy to every member of each freshman class
  from now on.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 130w


=GERSTENBERG, CHARLES W., and JOHNSON, WALTER SEELY.= Organization and
control. (Modern business, v. 3) il Alexander Hamilton inst. 658 17-1816

  “‘Organization and control’ deals not with the internal management and
  control of business units, but rather with the external organization
  and ownership of industrial enterprises and the control of their
  business policies. In other words, this is not a work on business
  management, but on the structure of the business unit. ... The book
  approaches the subject largely from the legal standpoint, although
  there is nothing of a technical legal nature in the content. ... The
  closing chapters deal with the questions growing out of concentration
  and combination in business. In them the author examines the causes
  that have led up to the present high degree of centralized control,
  traces the evolution of the ‘trust’ through the various forms which it
  has taken and outlines the advantages resulting from industrial
  consolidation. Illegal combinations are discussed and the book closes
  with a history of the law of monopolies and an analysis of recent
  legislation on the trust question.”—Am Econ R

  “It presents the subject in a remarkably clear and readable manner,
  illuminates the material with a number of well-selected business
  forms, and arouses interest by suggestive questions on hypothetical
  corporate problems.” F. E. Armstrong

       + =Am Econ R= 7:648 S ‘17 380w

         =Pratt= p23 Jl ‘17


=GERSTER, ARPAD GEYZA CHARLES.=[2] Recollections of a New York surgeon.
il $3.50 Hoeber 17-29633

  “Born in Hungary in 1848, Dr Gerster came to this country in 1873 and
  settled for practice in New York city. His family origin was Swiss and
  his forebears were sturdy peasants or burghers, who did not fail to do
  their part in freeing Europe from the feudal subjection to the
  Hapsburg and Burgundian overlords. ... He writes of the public service
  of his ancestors—of John Gerster of Kaufbeuren who held various
  offices in the Basel city government prior to 1532, when he was
  pensioned, of Ottmar Gerster, who commanded the peasant army in the
  war waged against Abbot Ulrich VIII of Sankt Gallen to gain liberation
  from the overlordship of the monastery. ... In 1866 Gerster entered
  the University of Vienna as a medical student. There he remained seven
  years and went through all the experiences of student life, including
  the duel requirements. ... His surgical practice in New York began in
  a very humble way, and for some years was confined to work among the
  very poor. Later he won renown and wealth. The closing section of his
  book is devoted to ‘diversions.’”—Boston Transcript

  “And he writes delightfully of music, sketching, wood-carving and
  etching.” H. S. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 14 ‘17 650w

  “Throughout the book there is evident a genial, eager personality
  whose keen interest in the world and all its people, in nature and all
  her manifestations, has filled the days of his life with enjoyment.
  Particularly wholesome reading will the book be for young medical
  students and practitioners.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:573 D 23 ‘17 480w


=GIBBONS, MRS HELEN DAVENPORT (BROWN).= Red rugs of Tarsus. *$1.25 (3c)
Century 956 17-10364

  An account of the Armenian massacre of 1909. The author, with her
  husband, Herbert Adams Gibbons, was spending the year 1909 in Tarsus
  and teaching in a mission school. Since then she has tried to put the
  experience of that year out of her mind. “But,” she says, “recent
  events in Armenia brought it all back again. My indignation, and a
  sense of duty and of pity, transcended all personal feelings. I lived
  again that night in Tarsus, when we—seven defenseless women, our one
  foreign man ... and 4,800 Armenians waited our turn at the hands of
  the Kurds.” The story is told from the letters written at that time to
  her mother in America.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:22 O ‘17

  “She gives bright and humorous descriptions of her new experiences,
  which, however, soon cease to be merely amusing. The horror of an
  Armenian massacre converts the airy narrative into a grim recital of
  terrible deeds.”

       + =Dial= 62:447 My 17 ‘17 200w

  “Unfortunately many of these letters to Mrs Gibbons’ mother contain
  information which must have interested her mother greatly, but which
  will seem irrelevant to the public, or trivial, when thought of in
  relation to such great happenings.”

         =Ind= 91:78 Jl 14 ‘17 70w

       + =Lit D= 54:2006 Je 30 ‘17 150w

  “A fine and significant book. ... Of the moments of her own peril Mrs
  Gibbons has written with a simplicity, almost an unconsciousness, that
  is magnificently fine and dramatic to read, now that it is all over,
  and she and her husband were saved. But the record as a whole,
  including those terrible hours with the rest, is one of stark, close,
  immediate realities, known and faced. The book will give the American
  reader food for more than one kind of thought.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:201 My 20 ‘17 500w

  “A very vital, realistic, graphic portrayal of one of the terrible
  tragedies of modern history.”

       + =Outlook= 116:627 Ag 22 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:527 Je ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:186 Je ‘17

  “The deposition of Abdul Hamid and the triumph of the Young Turks
  occurred while the family was at Mersina, and the popular impression
  that the new régime was more tolerant is contradicted by what Mrs
  Gibbons writes of the early days of its intolerance.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 450w


=GIBBONS, HERBERT ADAMS.= Reconstruction of Poland and the Near East;
problems of peace. *$1 (3c) Century 940.91 17-21742

  “These chapters were written as a series of articles for the Century
  Magazine. At the time of the Russian revolution and the intervention
  of the United States, the chapters on Poland and Constantinople had
  already been published and the others were in print.” (Foreword) Mr
  Gibbons treats some events in outline only, and makes references that
  assume the reader’s knowledge of modern European history. His chapters
  all deal with the wrongs of small nations, whom he shows to have been
  ill-treated by the Entente allies as well as by Germany, and with the
  way the small nations should be treated to secure a durable peace.
  Despite his “horrors and detestation of what Jews and Poles and
  Armenians and Belgians and Serbians are being made to suffer,” he does
  not think that the punishment of and a change in the political status
  of Russia, Turkey, Germany, and Austria-Hungary would prevent the
  renewal in the very near future of wrongs inflicted upon small and
  weak nations, but believes the formula for the readjustment of the
  world to be “government by the consent of the governed.” He therefore
  argues that the reconstituted Polish state must not be subject in any
  way to either Germany or Russia and that its boundaries must be
  determined by ethnological, economic and political, rather than
  historical, considerations; that Constantinople must be considered “in
  the light of principle and not as a pawn”; that the peace conference
  must prove the intention of Europe to put “local Mohammedan interests
  ahead of European interest in Mohammedan countries”; and that the
  Entente powers must “guarantee the Balkan peninsula to the Balkan
  peoples,” as otherwise “Germany will keep the hegemony in the Balkans
  that she has already won.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:19 O ‘17

  “The book interprets for us the passionate racial desires for freedom,
  and the inalienable right to enjoy that freedom, of all the minor
  weaker states now in the whirlpool of war.” S. A.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 410w

       + =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 60w

  “The author writes from long and intimate knowledge of eastern
  European politics, and his suggestions are worthy of the earnest
  attention of statesmen and diplomats.” F: A. Ogg

       + =Dial= 63:583 D 6 ‘17 520w

         =Ind= 91:475 S 22 ‘17 250w

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 29 ‘17 370w

  “The attitude of the writer is rather that of a thoughtful observer
  than an incisive critic. He has no definite solution to offer for any
  of the problems which are sure to plague mankind after peace
  negotiations shall have begun.”

     + — =Nation= 105:609 N 29 ‘17 500w

  “Mr Gibbons is the author of two recent and very valuable works, ‘The
  new map of Africa’ and ‘The new map of Europe.’ In the present work he
  departs from his special forte of describing what has happened in the
  way of territorial changes to suggest changes that may happen in the
  future. ... The value of the work consists far more in the information
  given regarding the past status of these countries than in what he
  suggests for the future. ... In his past work he was on sure ground,
  in this it is unavoidably different.” J. W.

     + — =N Y Call= p15 S 2 ‘17 400w

  “Mr Gibbons gives a lucid and vigorous presentation of the issues at
  stake in Poland and the Near East, pointing out that if the war is to
  continue in the character of a struggle for democracy against
  autocracy, the issues must be defined to meet the requirements of
  democracy. .... In his point of view he is accurately representative
  of American nationalism.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:306 Ag 19 ‘17 540w

  “A useful work of historical reference and suggestion. It should have
  an index.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:26 S 5 ‘17 360w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:825 D ‘17 90w

  “An important contribution to the literature on American foreign
  relations emphasizes that the principles of American policy concerning
  the Near East are fundamentally and necessarily different from those
  of our allies. ... The author sets right misled public opinion in this
  country concerning the nature of Panislamism and the Islam conception
  of the state.” Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 38:550 S 22 ‘17 720w


=GIBBONS, JAMES, cardinal.= Retrospect of fifty years. 2v *$2 (1½c)
Murphy, J: 282 17-88

  These two volumes contain a selection from the essays and sermons of
  Cardinal Gibbons. His introduction expresses the belief that they may
  be of historical importance as a record of the times in which he has
  lived. He says “I have lived a long time, and I have lived through a
  very critical time. Not only have I held office many years, but I have
  held office during a time of transition, when the old order was
  changed.” A large part of the first volume is devoted to the Vatican
  council (1869-1870), of which Cardinal Gibbons is the last surviving
  member. Other miscellaneous papers of general interest included in the
  two volumes are: The Knights of labor; The church and the republic;
  Irish immigration to the United States; Patriotism and politics; Will
  the American republic endure?

  “The reader will not find in this book any aids to an exact knowledge
  of historic facts, nor will the non-Catholic find any arguments to
  persuade him to join the church, but he will feel that the country has
  been very fortunate to have had a man of broad sympathies, of generous
  temper, of great patience and Christian charity at the head of the
  Catholic church in America during the last fifty years.” H: D.
  Sedgwick

         =Am Hist R= 22:887 Jl ‘17 1050w

  “Of interest to both Catholics and Protestants alike.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:285 Ap ‘17

  “He was already a priest during the Civil war, followed Abraham
  Lincoln’s body in procession when it was brought to Baltimore, and has
  been personally acquainted with most of the American presidents since
  Lincoln’s death.”

       + =Ath= p255 My ‘17 120w

  “The essay on the Knights of labour is one of the most important, as
  the part played by Cardinal Gibbons in their behalf is one of his
  noblest achievements. ... In every essay, the character of the man is
  unconsciously made clear. And one arises from such reading with the
  conviction that this man is greater than any of his writings or deeds,
  and that such a man is one of the greatest assets of a nation or a
  church.” F. P. Lyons, C. S. P.

       + =Bookm= 45:193 Ap ‘17 1000w

  “Many of the papers and addresses embraced in the ‘Retrospect’ deal
  with civic affairs. .... In these we get an ineffaceable impression of
  the distinguished author as the type of the militant citizen who
  rebukes the wrong and defends the right, and yet through all retains
  an unshakable faith in his country and its institutions which glows
  like a torch to guide all who call themselves Americans.”

       + =Cath World= 104:689 F ‘17 800w

       + =Lit D= 54:911 Mr 31 ‘17 950w

         =R of Rs= 55:667 Je ‘17 80w


=GIBBS, GEORGE FORT.= Secret witness. il *$1.50 Appleton 17-22296

  “The author, in an explanatory final chapter, seems to claim that some
  evidence exists of the truth of the incidents described in the novel
  as preceding the assassination of the Austrian archduke at Sarajevo.
  According to this theory, the German Kaiser and the Archduke had
  formed a secret alliance in which, after the death of Emperor Francis
  Joseph, they were to divide between them Austria, Serbia, Poland, and
  other territory, the Archduke to hold the eastern section and to found
  a dynasty through his children, whose right to succeed him was denied
  by Austria. The story gives an Austrian origin to the plot and
  assassination. The secret interview between the Kaiser and Archduke is
  overheard by a young Austrian countess and a young English diplomat
  who are in love with each other and who conceive it to be their duty
  to report the matter—one to the Austrian emperor, the other to the
  English ambassador. Out of this naturally come plots and counterplots
  and adventures of startling character.”—Outlook

         =A L A Bkl= 14:95 D ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p11 O 6 ‘17 300w

  “Not so skillfully written as Buchan’s ‘Greenmantle,’ but of similar
  interest.”

     + — =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 70w

         =Dial= 64:78 Ja 17 ‘18 60w

  “A technically adroit, plausible and attractively written story.”

       + =New Repub= 12:226 S 22 ‘17 200w

  “There is plenty of variety in the scenes which are laid in many and
  very different places, including a Turkish harem and an ancient,
  supposedly abandoned castle high up in the Tatra range of the
  Carpathians. ... A swift-moving, entertaining story with an ingenious
  plot.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:343 S 16 ‘17 320w

         =Outlook= 117:142 S 26 ‘17 160w

         =Pratt= p51 O ‘17 10w

  “A second ‘Prisoner of Zenda’ in its headlong pace, picturesque
  situations, adventure and love interest.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:556 N ‘17 200w


=GIBBS, PHILIP.= Battles of the Somme. *$2 (2c) Doran 940.91 17-3464

  This is Mr Gibbs’s second war book. “The soul of the war” was written
  while he was a free-lance journalist in France and Belgium. He is now
  an officially accredited correspondent with the British armies in the
  field. In this book he has brought together articles written in the
  three months following July 1, 1916. He is one of the most brilliant
  men writing from the front. He kept close to the fighting forces, and
  makes the daily life of the men in action very vivid. There are two
  folding maps.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:345 My ‘17

  “Mr Gibbs’s book is the war. ... The reader sees and senses the horror
  and the nastiness and the incredible folly of it all; but, shining
  through the sombreness, the glory of those golden lads who, knowing
  the war and hating it like the hell it is, went steadfastly forward
  into the flames with smiling eyes and a jest on their lips.” A. R.
  Dodd

       + =Bookm= 45:196 Ap ‘17 600w

  “No man who writes from the front writes more sensitively than does
  Philip Gibbs. ... His best pictures are of men.” W. A. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 950w

       + =Ind= 90:472 Je 9 ‘17 140w

       + =Lit D= 54:1708 Je 2 ‘17 550w

       + =New Repub= 10:sup16 Ap 21 ‘17 550w

  “If Mr Gibbs can see the saving humors in the warring days, he can see
  the hideousness, too, and the fineness, and the tenderness that so
  often goes hand in hand with the heroism. It is because he can see all
  of these things—and makes us see them—that his book is so good.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:57 F 18 ‘17 500w

       + =Outlook= 116:75 My 9 ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p40 O ‘17 20w

       + =Spec= 118:239 F 24 ‘17 600w

  “The two excellent maps appended to the book, while they fulfil the
  purpose of their insertion by recording the progress made in the early
  weeks of the battle, are of no use in following the present movement.
  The Germans have been backed clean off them.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 13 ‘17 550w

  “His record appeared from day to day, in either the Daily Telegraph or
  the Daily Chronicle. ... On the tanks Mr Gibbs speaks with a certain
  guarded enthusiasm. ... ‘If we had enough of them—and it would be a
  big number—trench warfare would go for ever and machine-gun redoubts
  would lose their terror.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p38 Ja 25 ‘17 700w


=GIBBS, WINIFRED STUART.= Minimum cost of living. *$1 Macmillan 331.83
17-10221

  “This work is based on a methodical study of the food habits, as
  compared with the scientifically-estimated food requirements, of a
  number of New York families cared for by the Association for improving
  the condition of the poor; this study seems to have succeeded in
  multiplying the effectiveness of the money spent in relieving want,
  and as an unintentional byproduct food economies are suggested which
  are undoubtedly feasible on a larger scale. The contribution of the
  book to present needs lies in these statistics of food use and food
  needs.”—Springf’d Republican

  “An accurate laboratory contribution to family budget literature, of
  use to every student of social conditions. Further, it demonstrates
  the practicability of using the family budget as a lever to raise the
  living standards both of dependent and of independent families, and
  will, therefore, be of service to every social worker.” W. E. Clark

       + =Am Econ R= 7:665 S ‘17 500w

  Reviewed by Florence Nesbitt

         =Am J Soc= 23:277 S ‘17 60w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:6 O ‘17

  “It must be kept in mind, however, in reading this book that the
  budgets given are not to be set up as standards for the cost of
  living. The clothing estimate is admittedly inadequate even when eked
  out by gifts of clothing from relations.” N. D. H.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:237 Jl ‘17 90w

  “While primarily a book for charity visitors and district nurses, it
  should interest all social workers for it records with modesty a fine
  piece of constructive work to help families left without an adult male
  wage-earner, to spend their incomes wisely.”

       + =Cleveland= p77 Je ‘17 60w

         =Dial= 63:351 O 11 ‘17 120w

         =J Pol Econ= 25:1059 D ‘17 60w

  “Of peculiar interest, now that the war has given prominence to the
  question of food-economy.”

       + =Nation= 105:272 S 6 ‘17 360w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:90 Je ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:689 O ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p25 O ‘17 20w

  Reviewed by Graham Lusk

       + =Science= n s 46:18 Jl 6 ‘17 230w

  “The explanatory text is rather incoherently assembled, but there are
  enough figures in handy form to give the amateur economist a good
  working basis.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 3 ‘17 440w

  “It gives concrete evidence for the philanthropist, the law-maker, and
  the employer regarding the now undeniable interrelation between human
  progress and the minimum wage.” L. B. Mendel

       + =Survey= 38:531 S 15 ‘17 200w


=GIBSON, CHARLES R.= War inventions and how they were invented. il *$1
Lippincott 355 (Eng ed 17-1948)

  “An attractive book which answers a good many of the questions—about
  guns and shells and range-finding, for instance—which the layman is
  always asking himself or others equally ignorant.” (Spec) “Contents:
  How guns were invented; How guns were made to shoot straight; Guns
  that fire 1,000 shots per minute; Giant guns; What is an explosive?
  How shells were invented; How we came to make iron ships; Ships that
  go under the sea; Some questions about submarines; About the deadly
  torpedo; How torpedoes and mines are exploded; A very dangerous
  occupation; The eye of the submarine; Measuring the distance to the
  enemy; Ships that go up in the air; War in the air.” (Pittsburgh)

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:434 My ‘17 80w

  “Mr Gibson is not afraid to begin at the beginning and explain the
  very elements of gunnery and torpedo-work, and he has a clear and
  pleasant style.”

       + =Spec= 117:sup685 D 2 ‘16 60w


=GIBSON, HUGH.= Journal from our legation in Belgium. il *$2.50 (2½c)
Doubleday 940.91 17-29362

  This volume is the private journal of the first secretary to the
  American legation in Brussels “jotted down hastily from day to day in
  odd moments, when more pressing duties would permit.” (Introd.) It
  runs from July 4 to December 31, 1914. Appended to it as a final
  chapter is an article on the case of Miss Cavell, which has appeared
  in the World’s Work. “Much material has been eliminated as of little
  interest. Other material of interest has been left out because it
  cannot be published at this time.” (Introd.) Most of the matter about
  the early history of the Commission for relief in Belgium has been
  eliminated, because Mr Gibson felt that his record of it was
  inadequate and knew that Dr Vernon Kellogg was to publish an
  authoritative account of the Commission’s work. There are numerous
  illustrations from photographs. Among these are portraits of Edith
  Cavell, Herbert C. Hoover and Cardinal Mercier. There is no index.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:89 D ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 100w

  “This is one of the best books which the war has given us. The writing
  is not beautiful or fine, but the story is so surpassingly good that
  it never is tiresome or dull.”

       + =Nation= 105:665 D 13 ‘17 2350w

  “What one gleans from this book, even more than the sensations of
  Belgium invaded—amplified as they are by numerous photographs and
  proclamations—is a pronounced impression of the Germany that invaded
  her, the Germans that went to make up that formidable force which Mr
  Gibson observes so sensibly, with such disintegrating critical gaze.”
  F. H.

       + =New Repub= 13:101 N 24 ‘17 1750w

  “In this long and absorbing record of early war days there is much to
  clear up perplexities and to give us new facts and new light on old
  knowledge. ... Simple, vivid, concrete, informative, it is to repeat,
  a book that every American ought to read.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:439 O 28 ‘17 1500w

  “His knowledge of the mind and spirit of the invaded, coupled with his
  power to portray the Germans, renders his narrative unusually
  absorbing and convincing.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:826 D ‘17 80w

  “This is one of those exceptionally privileged volumes which make the
  great mass of current war literature seem tame and commonplace.” F: T.
  Cooper

       + =Pub W= 92:2025 D 8 ‘17 450w

  “It forms a vivid and convincing story of what went on in Belgium
  during the first year of the war. It should be read by all who have
  any remaining doubts as to the spirit and intent of the German
  administration in Belgium.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:101 Ja ‘18 170w

  “The poignant merit of this book consists, not in the novelty of the
  facts, which are but too familiar, but in the authority of the
  writer.”

       + =Sat R= 124:506 D 22 ‘17 1300w


=GIBSON, WILFRID WILSON.= Livelihood; dramatic reveries. *$1.25
Macmillan 821 17-1621

  Mr Gibson has brought together twenty of his recent poems. They are
  narratives of humble life, stories of men and women who, “in spite of
  everything,” have learned “to take their luck through life and find it
  good.” They bring out some of those imperishable qualities in human
  nature which neither hardship nor poverty nor war has power wholly to
  destroy.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:391 Je ‘17

       + =Ath= p200 Ap ‘17 270w

  “He is truly a poet of the people. ... To be a poet of the people, the
  people must understand you; they must do more, they must know you
  understand them.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 20 ‘17 1600w

  “The muse of Mr Gibson drowses in ‘Livelihood.’ ... Equally
  unfortunate is the lapse of that faculty of enlargement which gave
  compass and vista to those low-life themes which cramp the
  unsympathetic or unimaginative mind. Comparatively speaking, the
  persons in ‘Livelihood’ are passive, and their sorrows oppress rather
  than excite us. Exceptions occur, or the volume would hardly be Mr
  Gibson’s. ‘The news’ is an affecting though dilated story, and ‘The
  old nail shop’ illustrates the resurgence of vigor.” O. W. Firkins

     – + =Nation= 105:66 Jl 19 ‘17 350w

  “Not that Gibson is faultless; he has at times a distressing tendency
  to take the phrase or word that comes first into his head; he does not
  always labor until he has secured the inevitable and creative phrase,
  as, for instance, Robert Frost usually does. But this does not detract
  from the beauty he often achieves, or his significance as a poet of
  labor.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ap 29 ‘17 660w

  “Very tender and gentle is Mr Gibson’s touch upon life in these poems,
  wherein he sees only the solemn glory in each humble soul and has no
  eyes for its baseness.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:14 Ja 14 ‘17 900w

       + =R of Rs= 55:211 F ‘17 50w

  “Though these tales in verse are not poetry in the fullest and highest
  sense, though they are too merely individual and too photographic for
  that, yet they are what every one may well be grateful for. ... There
  is not a dull page in them; the book is a compound of constant
  cleverness, much sympathy, some imagination, scarcely any music of
  speech.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p79 F 15 ‘17 1300w

  “The chief defect in the book is a want of the joy of life; there is a
  sombreness over it all; there is resignation rather than happiness.
  The chief delight of his men and women is in the remembering of past
  days. It may be that ‘Between the lines’ gives a clue to this: the
  shadow of the war has not yet fallen upon us.” E: B. Reed

       + =Yale R= n s 6:862 Jl ‘17 150w


=GIBSON, WILFRID WILSON.= Poems (1904-1917). il *$2.25 Macmillan 821
17-24679

  The publishers state that “here is brought together in one volume all
  of Mr Gibson’s writings which he wishes to preserve.” Contents: Akra
  the slave; Stonefolds; Daily bread; Womenkind; Fires; Thoroughfares;
  Borderlands; Battle; Friends; Livelihood.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:66 N ‘17

  “His work is simple, rough-hewn and frequently unbeautiful, but his
  sympathies penetrate to the innermost heart of humble life.”

       + =Cleveland= p121 N ‘17 60w

  “It is, of course, too early to attempt a placing of Mr Gibson. For
  the present it is enough to say that he has developed a style
  peculiarly effective, and valuable too for its influence on
  contemporary poetry. Mr Gibson has clearly proved that poetry can deal
  with the commonplaces of daily life,—with the bitter and trivial and
  powerful and universal commonplaces of human consciousness,—and do it
  with force and beauty.” Conrad Aiken

       + =Dial= 63:453 N 8 ‘17 700w

  “Such sketches of the individual soldier in the trenches as make up
  the section ‘Battle’ are so brief, so compact, so single in their
  purpose that every lyric suggests the flight of a bullet. And, like
  bullets, these war poems either hit altogether or not at all. They are
  all perfect; tho three or four of them are perfect failures. ... In
  war and peace alike, Gibson selects by preference the themes that are
  commonplace or even disagreeable and makes them splendid by revealing
  the heroism and kindliness which lie deep in the hearts of common
  folk.”

     + — =Ind= 92:62 O 6 ‘17 250w

         =Lit D= 55:32 N 3 ‘17 120w

  “He has diction, but hardly phrase; he has passion, but hardly drama;
  he has humanity, but hardly character. He is concise, but is prodigal
  of concision. A master of point when he wills, he keeps that mastery
  in habitual abeyance. Yet so abounding, so dominating, are his
  diction, his passion, his humanity, that the negations, in the hour of
  contact, are scarcely credible or visible.” O. W. Firkins

     + — =Nation= 106:89 Ja 24 ‘18 730w

  “Wilfrid Wilson Gibson gets into these idylls the kindliness of the
  English folk. Through his work we see England, not as a great imperial
  system, but as a not too prosperous nationality where a laborious,
  poorly rewarded folk love their soil and love their kind.” Padraic
  Colum

       + =New Repub= 13:sup11 N 17 ‘17 1000w

  “What he has done, here grouped together, makes him one of labor’s
  strongest voices; we are justly proud of him.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p16 Ja 19 ‘18 650w

  “Like Wordsworth, Mr Gibson has a plain, severe way of writing which
  degenerates only too often into aridity and baldness; ... like
  Wordsworth, too, he is almost exclusively interested in the lives of
  the simple and the poor. There, unfortunately, the resemblance stops.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:383 O 7 ‘17 450w


=GIDDINGS, HOWARD ANDREW=, comp.[2] Handbook of military signaling. il
*60c Appleton 623.7 17-28811

  A revised edition of a handbook published in 1896 with the title
  “Instructions in military signaling.” The preface says, “The changes
  in codes and signaling systems have been so extensive that the
  handbook is in effect a new one. The signal codes, conventional
  signals, letter codes, emergency signals, etc., are taken from the
  Signal book, U.S. army, 1916.”

  “Useful, compact little volume.”

       + =Nation= 106:120 Ja 31 ‘18 40w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:187 D ‘17 10w

         =R of Rs= 57:102 Ja ‘18 20w


=GILBERT, ARTHUR WITTER=, and others. Potato. (Rural science ser.) il
*$1.50 Macmillan 635 17-10445

  “The author states in his preface that the book is intended to give
  brief and practical suggestions on the growing, breeding and marketing
  of potatoes.” (Science) “Mr Dean is a grower of potatoes on a large
  scale and has studied the business of potato growing in all parts of
  the United States. His chapters in the book deal with the practical
  work of planting and cultivating, Dr Barrus’s with the diseases of the
  potato and how to treat them, and Dr Gilbert’s with the different
  varieties and what each needs in the way of soil and care.” (N Y
  Times)

  “Unquestionably one of the most important agricultural books of the
  year.”

       + =Agricultural Digest= 2:504 Je ‘17 60w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:433 Jl ‘17

         =Cleveland= p95 Jl ‘17 30w

  “Has the usual solid merits of the volumes in Professor Bailey’s Rural
  science series. Of timely value is the chapter on the problems of
  marketing and storage.”

       + =Nation= 105:154 Ag 9 ‘17 550w

       + =N Y Times= 22:165 Ap 29 ‘17 130w

         =Pratt= p21 Jl ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:174 Je ‘17

  “This publication, in addition to being up-to-date in its cultural
  directions, devotes considerably more attention to the subject of
  potato breeding than any of our preceding American treatises on the
  potato. ... The discussion of potato diseases and their control is
  clear and convincing and should prove very helpful to both the farmer
  and the student. A chapter on ‘Markets, marketing and storage’ is both
  suggestive and helpful, as is also that on the cost of growing
  potatoes.” W: Stuart

       + =Science= n s 45:462 My 11 ‘17 300w


=GILBERT, GEORGE HOLLEY.= Jesus for the men of today; when science aids
religion. *$1 Doran 232 17-17183

  “‘Jesus: for the men of today,’ by Prof. George H. Gilbert, is a life
  of Christ in story form. The main facts of the gospel narrative are
  made to live again amid the homely human surroundings of Galilee and
  Judea.”—Ind

  “It reveals the human and lovely character of Jesus with the power of
  a poet’s interpretation; it discloses the soul of the writer as well,
  and the vision is most beautiful. The book must have been written
  originally more or less in blank verse or else the writer
  unconsciously pens prose that admits scanning.”

     + — =Bib World= 50:315 N ‘17 210w

  “The ample historical and archeological knowledge of the author
  guarantee the accuracy of the picture, and the characters are sketched
  with the modern touches of realism.”

       + =Ind= 91:354 S 1 ‘17 70w


=GILBERTSON, HENRY STIMSON.= County—the “dark continent” of American
politics. $2 National short ballot organization 352 17-12496

  “Since 1910, when the American political science association gave the
  county a place on the program of its annual meeting, a number of
  valuable studies of the county have been made. ... The work under
  review by H. S. Gilbertson, secretary of the New York short ballot
  organization, is the first attempt to set forth within the covers of a
  single book ‘the outlines of a very real and important “county
  problem.”’ The purpose of the work, as stated in the preface, is to
  stimulate a ‘much wider and more thorough research into the subject
  than has yet been attempted’ and ‘to throw a new light upon the
  “democratic experiment” in America.’ Within the first 119 pages the
  author presents his ‘indictment of the county.’ This is followed (86
  pages) by a constructive program of county reform. An appendix of 77
  pages contains a number of valuable constitutional and legislative
  documents relating to county government. ... A comprehensive
  bibliography and an adequate index enhance the value of the book.”—Am
  Pol Sci R

         =A L A Bkl= 14:6 O ‘17

  Reviewed by O. C. Hormell

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:587 Ag ‘17 650w

       + =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 20w

  “The political student and worker will find this book truly useful,
  the more so if he keep in mind how easy it is whenever a bad spot is
  found in officialdom to assault the governmental system.”

       + =Ind= 90:555 Je 23 ‘17 80w

         =Pratt= p9 O ‘17 40w

  “Since Mr Gilbertson began the inquiry, something has been done here
  and there towards untangling the county knot, for example, the work of
  the Public efficiency society of Cook county, Ill., the Westchester
  research bureau of New York, and the Tax association of Alameda county
  in California—and the results of his work justify a degree of optimism
  for the future.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:326 S ‘17 210w

         =St Louis= 15:170 Je ‘17


=GILMAN, STEPHEN.= Principles of accounting. $3 LaSalle extension univ.
657 16-15136

  “‘Principles of accounting,’ for trained bookkeepers, is a complete
  discussion, made clearer by careful illustration, of the forms and
  values of accurate accounting in its modern meaning where the aim of
  the business man is not merely a balancing of accounts, but such a
  comparison of facts and values as will give him the truest estimate of
  his business transactions.”—Ind

  “On the whole, it may be said that the book does not undertake to
  advance new theories but to present clearly the principles underlying
  the best accounting practice. The point of view is modern, the
  treatment comprehensive and usually adequate, and the style simple and
  clear. Effective use is made of charts, examples, problems, and
  summaries. ... The author’s acquaintance with accounting theory,
  however, is evidently not equalled by his knowledge of economic
  theory, else why say: ‘In a natural state, water may be obtained
  without effort; hence it has no utility?’” C. C. Huntington

       + =Am Econ R= 7:133 Mr ‘17 1500w

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:228 Jl ‘17 100w

       + =Ind= 87:242 Ag 14 ‘16 60w


=GIRAULT, ARTHUR.= Colonial tariff policy of France; ed. by C: Gide.
*$2.50 Oxford 337 (Eng ed 16-23596)

  “This is one of the two initial publications issued by the Division of
  economics and history of the Carnegie endowment for international
  peace; the other being Grunzel’s ‘Economic protectionism.’ ... The
  book gives a narrative and critical account of the colonial policy of
  France. A first part, comprising about half the contents, gives a
  historical sketch of that policy. The second and concluding part takes
  up the present colonies one by one—the small colonies, Indo-China,
  Madagascar and dependencies, West Africa, Equatorial Africa, Algeria,
  Tunis, and Morocco—and describes and discusses their present relations
  with the mother country.”—Am Econ R

  “In style and arrangement it is a typical and creditable example of
  French scholarly work. It is fluently and clearly written, well
  arranged, supplied with convenient introductions and summaries; and
  there is a good index. The passages that involve criticism and
  reasoning are sensible, but cannot be said to show a thorough grasp of
  general economic theory or of the principles of international trade.”
  F. W. Taussig

       + =Am Econ R= 7:155 Mr ‘17 900w

  “Professor Girault is at his best in the historical and descriptive
  parts of the work. A certain looseness and inconsistency characterizes
  his generalizations and his deductions as well as his reasoning as to
  the policy which France of to-day should pursue towards some of her
  colonies. ... The real merit of this work lies in the analysis of the
  causes of the colonial tariff policies under the changing governments
  of France and in a careful presentation of the effect of these
  policies upon the economic status of each colony; as such it forms an
  important contribution to the study of the subject.” Simon Litman

     + — =Am Hist R= 22:904 Jl ‘17 600w

  Reviewed by R. S. MacElwee

         =Ann Am Acad= 71:234 My ‘17 470w

         =St Louis= 15:357 O ‘17 60w

  “The severity and lucidity of the main argument, the
  incontrovertibility of the historical facts built into the exposition,
  and the wealth of the statistical evidence certainly establish its
  title to be a work of reference for historians, economists, and the
  public; but it would require more than one expert thoroughly to sift
  the premises and test the conclusions stated with moderation but with
  an impressive conviction by the author. Professor Girault is handling
  a subject the general principles of which he had worked out in his
  ‘Principles de colonisation et de legislation coloniale’; and he is
  careful to correlate the specific analysis of the French system with
  the wider principles of colonial policy in general. ... Professor
  Girault has provided the French delegates at the future conference
  with an indispensable dossier.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p59 Ja 25 ‘17 1900w


=GLADSTONE, WILLIAM EWART.= Speeches; descriptive index and
bibliography; with a preface by Viscount Bryce. *12s 6d Methuen & co.,
London 308 (Eng ed 17-14978)

  “Mr Bassett has compiled an invaluable supplement to Lord Morley’s
  ‘Life of Gladstone,’ comprising an index to his speeches from June
  3rd, 1833, to May 4th, 1897, and a bibliography of his writings. ...
  The index is briefly annotated and gives the length of each speech.
  Fourteen of the most notable orations are reprinted in full, with
  useful introductions by Mr Herbert Paul. They include his attack on
  Palmerston’s foreign policy (1850), his denunciation of the treaty of
  Berlin (1878), and his famous opening speech in the Midlothian
  campaign of 1879, expressing a detestation of the Turk. His first
  Budget speech and his speech introducing the first Home rule bill are
  of much historic interest.”—Spec

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:88 Je ‘17 80w

       + =Spec= 118:417 Ap 7 ‘17 250w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p569 N 30 ‘16 650w


=GLAENZER, RICHARD BUTLER.=[2] Beggar and king. *$1 Yale univ. press 811
17-29491

  Contains among its best pieces “Masters of earth,” “Sure, it’s fun!”
  “The golden plover,” “Measure for measure,” and “April’s fool.” A
  handful among the sheaf are steeped in orientalism. Others sing loud
  and exultantly, drowning “sneers of humankind.” Some are war songs.
  One of the latter, “The new beatitude,” with a few strokes sets ruined
  Picardy and Poland before the eye, where “rasps through the reek this
  whisper raucous and low, Blessed are they which died a year ago!”

  “Mr Glaenzer’s volume is somewhat of a disappointment. With a few
  exceptions the works he has chosen to include are of ordinary
  significance. It is his workmanship rather than theme or conception
  that does him the greater credit. ‘Sure, it’s fun!’ one of the recent
  flashing bits of verse brought forth by the war shows how well Mr
  Glaenzer can succeed in being poetical; and the charming poem ‘To a
  vireo’ ... proves that when he abandons himself to light moods he can
  sing effectively and graciously. It is when he strives to be more
  ambitious, to sound the vague and complex depths of human experience
  that he fails to satisfy and merely irritates the reader by producing
  clever workmanship.” W. S. B.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 22 ‘17 250w

  “The workmanship is thorough, but the volume seems somewhat to lack
  the freshness that makes much of today’s poetry interesting.”

     – + =N Y Times= 23:33 Ja 27 ‘18 140w

  “He is thoroughly original in everything he writes, with the possible
  exception of lyrics which only in notable cases differ radically in
  the year 1917. Mr Glaenzer delights in cynicism. His lyrics are tinged
  and also tarnished by this trait. Try as he may to climb to the
  subjective hights of lyricists, there is always some repelling
  incident to make him slip. For this reason he never effervesces nor
  thrills with emotional ecstasy. The coquette amuses him. There is
  always some regret or failing in his theme to dull the brilliance of
  the glittering peak.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 650w


=GLEASON, ARTHUR HUNTINGTON.= Inside the British Isles. *$2 (2c) Century
942.08 17-14222

  A series of papers on Great Britain in wartime, arranged in four
  groups: Labor; Women; Ireland; Social studies, followed by a study of
  Lloyd-George and a conclusion. In concluding the author says, “I have
  sought to show the passing of England,—Little England, Old
  England,—the crumbling of its caste system, and the emergence of the
  England of John Bull and Cromwell’s soldiers from inarticulateness
  into power. And a yet greater thing has come—the advent of the new
  British commonwealth.” He adds further, “I am convinced that our own
  future is bound up with that of England, that together with England
  and France we can face the world with security, and gradually and
  painfully make the democratic principle prevail.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:19 O ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 9 ‘17 280w

  “The impression he creates is of a mind previously made up, and using
  only those facts which will support his thesis. ... In other words, Mr
  Gleason is a special pleader rather than a philosophic investigator,
  and it is only a philosophic investigator who could convincingly treat
  such a subject as that of the present book.”

       — =Cath World= 106:261 N ‘17 510w

         =Cleveland= p99 Jl ‘17 70w

  “Everyone is there—Mr Lansbury, Mr Zimmern, Mr Lionel Curtis, Mr Webb.
  Labels of identification are attached to them all. An ordinary
  Englishman like myself may again and again have real difficulty in
  recognizing some of the portraits. Mr Gleason works rapidly, and he is
  a little naïve. But his book has a real interim value as a
  cinematograph and it is extraordinarily pleasant reading.” H. J. Laski

         =Dial= 63:15 Je 28 ‘17 80w

  “Contains uncommonly keen analyses of certain aspects of the national
  characteristics. Thus, his grasp on the Irish problem in relation to
  the gulf of feeling and sentiment separating the Irish from the
  English people goes true to the very bone of the difficulty.”

       + =Ind= 90:553 Je 23 ‘17 300w

  “Mr Gleason writes with a rush and a whirl. He offers a minimum of
  specific data and a maximum of generalization. Yet we feel sure that
  no one will put down Mr Gleason’s book without a clear impression that
  England is today in revolution. His account is, beyond question, the
  most comprehensive and the most stimulating that has thus far
  appeared.”

     + — =Nation= 105:246 S 6 ‘17 1100w

  “Mr Gleason is to be complimented in his piecing together of all the
  fragmentary information, heretofore available only from time to time
  in the hurriedly read columns of the press, and furnishing a fairly
  synthetic picture of all that has taken place. ... He is careful to
  tell us that ‘Marxian socialism’ is ‘obsolete.’ And this is the only
  thing in the volume that he doesn’t apparently know anything about.”
  J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 Je 3 ‘17 570w

  “Sometimes one wonders if perhaps Mr Gleason in his enthusiasm
  exaggerates the importance of the changes he observes going on, thinks
  them significant of deeper forces than they represent, mistakes the
  temporary adjustment to suit temporary conditions for permanent
  evolution. ... Nevertheless, whether one agrees or not, the book has
  peculiar interest and high importance. ... But the volume contains a
  half dozen or more pages on ‘The new Americanism’ which might very
  well have been omitted because they are utterly irrelevant to the
  subject of the book and because they amazingly misunderstand and
  misinterpret facts and conditions in this country.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:231 Je 17 ‘17 800w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:674 O ‘17 30w

       + =Pratt= p46 O ‘17 30w

  “The advantage possessed by Arthur Gleason as an interpreter of
  English life for Americans is that he has a fresh and active mind and
  knows what aspects of England American readers would like to hear
  about. The disadvantage is that his familiarity with British
  affairs—if familiarity is the proper word—is apparently a very recent
  growth. ... Having a keen and alert eye and a facile habit of
  deduction, he seldom fails to be interesting, though he frequently
  does fail to be significant.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 1100w

  “The primary value of this book to the student of contemporary events
  is its description of tendencies, accompanied in nearly all cases by
  sufficient evidence to allow the reader to judge for himself what
  amount of intended or unconscious exaggeration there may be in the
  predictions made.” Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 38:548 S 22 ‘17 850w


=GLEASON, ARTHUR HUNTINGTON.= Our part in the great war. il *$1.35 (2c)
Stokes 940.91 17-13604

  This book is made up of four sections. Section 1, Americans who
  helped, consists of accounts of relief work in France, based on the
  author’s experience with an ambulance corps. Section 2, Why some
  Americans are neutral, has chapters on: Neutrality: an interpretation
  of the Middle West; Social workers and the war; Forgetting the
  American tradition, etc. Section 3, The Germans that rose from the
  dead, is based largely on gleanings from German war diaries. Section
  4, The peasants, is a series of sketches, drawn from the author’s
  experience in Belgium and France. In addition there are two letters in
  an appendix addressed To the reader and To neutral critics.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:443 Jl ‘17

         =Cleveland= p86 Jl ‘17 90w

       + =Dial= 63:349 O 11 ‘17 200w

  “So rapidly have events moved that Mr Gleason’s book has become, in
  ways, somewhat out of date even by the day of its publication. And
  that is a pity, for it contains so much valuable contribution to our
  knowledge of the war and is written in a spirit so earnest and, in the
  best sense, so patriotic that the reading of it ought still to have a
  tonic effect.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:270 Jl 22 ‘17 550w

       + =R of Rs= 56:213 Ag ‘17 130w


=GLOVER, TERROT REAVELEY.= Jesus of history; with a foreword by the
Archbishop of Canterbury. *$1 (1c) Assn. press 232 17-9479

  This work was prepared for the British Student Christian movement and
  published in Great Britain by that organization. It is based, however,
  on lectures given in India in the winter of 1915-16 by the author, who
  is fellow of St John’s college, Cambridge, and university lecturer in
  ancient history. The aim of the book, the author says “is, after all,
  not to achieve a final presentment of the historical Jesus, but to
  suggest lines of study that will deepen our interest in him and our
  love of him.” Contents: The study of the gospels; Childhood and youth;
  The man and his mind; The teacher and the disciples; The teaching of
  Jesus upon God; Jesus and man; Jesus’ teaching upon sin; The choice of
  the cross; The Christian church in the Roman empire; Jesus in
  Christian thought.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:424 Jl ‘17

       + =Bib World= 50:254 O ‘17 220w

  “Will appeal to those who find experience and life a guide to the
  understanding of the gospels rather than technical theology.” James
  Moffatt

       + =Hibbert J= 15:679 Jl ‘17 100w

  “The prolix and involved presentation, however, make the argument
  difficult to follow; and one lays down the work with a sigh of
  disappointment, at the little this eminent scholar has contributed to
  our knowledge or understanding of Jesus.”

     – + =Ind= 91:137 Jl 28 ‘17 80w

       + =Outlook= 116:116 My 16 ‘17 190w

  Reviewed by M. K. Reely

         =Pub W= 91:1323 Ap 21 ‘17 350w

  “In the foreword which the Archbishop of Canterbury contributes to
  this book he speaks of its author’s ‘rare power of reverently handling
  familiar truths or facts in such manner as to make them seem to be
  almost new.’ In saying that he expresses what every one will feel to
  be the chief distinction of the book.”

       + =Spec= 119:143 Ag 11 ‘17 620w

  “Dr Glover’s gifts of vivid description and graphic exposition have
  enabled him to provide a study of the central figure of the synoptic
  gospels which must evoke and retain the interest of even the least
  sympathetic readers. ... It is certainly unconventional and sometimes
  daring in its interpretations, but it is always reverent and full of
  the force of a man who has a strong personal grasp of what he believes
  to be ‘the fact of Christ.’”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p80 F 15 ‘17 500w


=GODFREY, THOMAS.= Prince of Parthia. il *$2.50 Little 812 17-14983

  This book is a reprint of “the first tragedy ever composed by a native
  American and produced on the professional stage in the United States.”
  (R of Rs) It has heretofore been available only in the original
  edition of 1765, and “is now published in commemoration of the one
  hundred and fiftieth anniversary of its production [in Philadelphia],
  without variation from the original, and accompanied by a biography
  and historical and critical introduction by Archibald Henderson.” (R
  of Rs) Only 550 copies were printed for sale.

  Reviewed by Algernon Tassin

         =Bookm= 46:346 N ‘17 350w

  “Godfrey was in no sense a great poet, not even a poet of great
  promise; but he was remarkable for the number and the variety of the
  English masters whom he was able, at the age of twenty-three, to echo
  in a way that showed appreciation if not originality. ... Many known
  facts go to show that his real importance in the history of
  eighteenth-century American literature has not been adequately
  recognized.”

         =Dial= 63:215 S 13 ‘17 500w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:108 Jl ‘17

  “The tragedy has many passages of great beauty. ... This is the first
  adequate account of Thomas Godfrey, and one that presents a picture
  drawn from historical data, of the literary and cultural conditions of
  American society in Philadelphia and Wilmington 1750-67.”

         =R of Rs= 56:443 O ‘17 250w


=GOGOL, NIKOLAI VASILIEVITCH.= Inspector-general; a comedy in five acts;
tr. from the Russian by T: Seltzer. (Borzoi plays) *$1 Knopf 891.7 17-78

  “In this satire (written in the third decade of the last century)
  Gogol takes you to a little town of provincial Russia and introduces
  you to conditions there. Great excitement prevails in the town; for
  news of the coming of a government inspector has reached the town
  officials, and they tremble at the prospect of an investigation. ...
  In their panic fear they take the first man who arrives in town for
  the dreaded ‘Revizor.’ He happens to be a penniless adventurer from
  Petrograd, and to him each of the local officials, from the governor
  down, comes to reveal the venality of the others. ... The play is an
  unsparing castigation of ‘official’ incompetence, dishonesty and
  baseness.”—N Y Call

  “It is theatrical, it is obvious. ... But it is irresistible fun.” O.
  M. Sayler

       + =Dial= 62:142 F 22 ‘17 120w

  Reviewed by L. S. Friedland

         =N Y Call= p15 F 25 ‘17 350w

  “A Russian critic writes: ‘Russia possesses only one comedy, “The
  inspector general.”’ This volume is a new and complete version of
  Gogol’s four-act play written in 1835, which, by holding up to
  ridicule the officials of a typical municipality, struck a definite
  blow at the tyrannous bureaucracy of the Russian government.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:440 Ap ‘17 50w

  “Means very much more to the Russian than even ‘The school for
  scandal’ or ‘She stoops to conquer’ does to the English-speaking
  world. ... Also known by its more literal title of ‘The revizor.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 22 ‘17 70w


=GOLDMAN, MAYER C.= Public defender; a necessary factor in the
administration of justice. *$1 (7c) Putnam 343 17-7209

  The author bases his plea for the establishment of the office of
  public defender on two principles: “(1) That it is as much the
  function of the state to shield the innocent as to convict the guilty;
  (2) That the ‘presumption of innocence’ requires the state to defend
  as well as to prosecute accused persons.” He discusses the subject in
  eight chapters: The public defender idea; The injustice of the
  “assigned counsel” system; Public prosecution and prosecutors;
  Analysis of the public defender; The ancient conception of crime;
  Specific objections considered; Other remedies inadequate; The march
  of the movement. The author is a member of the New York bar and the
  book has a foreword by Justice Wesley O. Howard of the Appellate
  division, New York Supreme court.

  “‘The author has approached the subject from many angles and we
  believe has presented an exceptionally able brief in support of his
  premise and has answered in full, all criticisms and objections which
  have been raised.’”

       + =Cleveland= p92 Jl ‘17 110w (Reprinted from American Law
         Review)

  “A valuable feature of the book is an appendix giving the chronology
  of the movement in this country and setting forth the most important
  facts regarding its present employment.”

       + =Dial= 63:30 Je 28 ‘17 330w

         =New Repub= 11:142 Je 2 ‘17 160w

  “The author is an attorney who drew both the bills for a public
  defender which were introduced into the New York legislature in 1915.”

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17 60w

       + =N Y Call= p14 Mr 18 ‘17 200w

         =N Y Times= 22:386 O 7 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:769 N ‘17 80w

         =R of Rs= 55:444 Ap ‘17 80w

  “The public defender idea has met opposition from bar associations,
  judges, newspapers and others who have believed that accused persons
  are sufficiently protected in our courts under existing safeguards.
  Meanwhile, it has won increasing attention from the public generally.”
  W. D. Lane

         =Survey= 38:361 Jl 21 ‘17 520w


=GOLDSMITH, ROBERT.= League to enforce peace; with a special
introduction by A. Lawrence Lowell. *$1.50 (2c) Macmillan 341.1 17-6558

  The “League to enforce peace,” organized in June, 1915, with
  ex-President Taft, A. Lawrence Lowell, and others as its promoters, is
  one of the associations that are trying to work out a practical
  program for the insurance of peace. A discussion of this program is
  the substance of the present work. It is divided into three parts. In
  part 1, the author considers The forces that failed, examining some of
  the agencies that broke down in 1914. Part 2 is devoted to an
  exposition of the principles and platform of the League to enforce
  peace. Part 3 is an examination of The creed of militarism, with a
  refutation of the militarist arguments. Endorsements of the League,
  etc., are given in an appendix. There is a bibliography and an index.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:330 My ‘17

         =Ann Am Acad= 74:301 N ‘17 260w

  “The author of this comprehensive discussion of the subject is a
  working member of the League and his book has had the examination and
  approval of several of its officials.” F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 45:183 Ap ‘17 400w

  “An unusually thin mess of intellectual porridge. ... The book slides
  along from easy platitude to easy platitude, without any genuine
  criticism or even analysis of the idea it professes to expound.”
  Randolph Bourne

       — =Dial= 62:387 My 3 ‘17 1050w

  “The book, tho rather diffuse in thought and arrangement, is
  nevertheless sound in principle, comprehensive, and well written. It
  should do much, especially in schools and colleges, to spread the idea
  that the coöperation of nations and not the competition of nations
  will alone insure eternal peace when the war ends.”

       + =Ind= 90:380 My 26 ‘17 120w

  “An excellent bibliography of books on the war and reconstruction is
  appended to a volume which does its admirable ‘bit’ towards making an
  old idea fresh and alive.”

       + =New Repub= 10:sup20 Ap 21 ‘17 250w

       — =N Y Call= p15 Ap 15 ‘17 500w

  “Throughout the book, both in his exposition of the league’s proposals
  and in his discussion of conditions out of which it has grown and of
  opinions concerning those conditions, Mr Goldsmith never loses sight
  either of the ideal that is aimed at nor of the practical steps by
  which it can be attained.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:64 F 25 ‘17 800w

       + =Outlook= 116:304 Je 20 ‘17 90w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:701 O ‘17 10w

  “A ‘League to enforce peace’ ought to do much toward keeping us in
  intellectual equilibrium, not so much perhaps because of the startling
  or unusual in its pages as for the simplicity with which oft-expressed
  ideas are set forth.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Ap 6 ‘17 480w


=GOLTZ, HORST VON DER.= My adventures as a German secret agent. il
*$1.50 (2½c) McBride 940.91 17-29598

  Chance slipped the young von der Goltz into the hands of the Prussian
  intelligence bureau and after years of shaping he was turned out a
  finished secret diplomatic agent. His adventures as secret agent in
  Russia, France, Spain, Switzerland, Mexico, the United States and
  England came to an abrupt end when England caught him and put him in
  prison. In this autobiographical volume he betrays Germany and
  divulges the entire structure and workings of her efficient spy system
  as it has been operative among the Allies. Of the United States he
  says: “Let me repeat again that Germany has installed in this country
  thousands of men, whose nationality and habits are such as to protect
  them from suspicion, who work silently and alone, because they know
  that their very lives depend upon their silence, and who are in
  communication with no central spy organization, for the very simple
  reason that no such organization exists. ... Eternal vigilance, here
  as elsewhere, is the price of security.”

  “He makes an exciting tale, though it may be hard to believe
  everything he says, and most of the intrigues have already been
  exposed in the papers.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:123 Ja ‘18

  “Interesting as is Baron von der Goltz’s exposure of German character,
  it yet fails in the appeal to our sympathies that its author evidently
  intended. Like every German he supposes that the average human mind
  works as the German mind works. He builds the whole structure of his
  book about his ridiculous slander against the late Empress Frederick.
  The American is accordingly prepared to believe nothing. Nevertheless,
  the rest of the narrative rings true.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 D 8 ‘17 430w

         =Dial= 64:36 Ja 3 ‘18 90w

  “The volume is interesting, however the reader may regard it. If it is
  considered as fiction, it has its merits; and equally so if it is
  considered as fact.” Joshua Wanhope

       + =N Y Call= p14 O 28 ‘17 700w

         =N Y Times= 22:435 O 28 ‘17 880w

         =St Louis= 15:419 D ‘17 30w


=GOODMAN, PAUL, and LEWIS, ARTHUR D.=, eds. Zionism; problems and views.
*$1.50 Bloch 296 17-4978

  “This book consists of twenty-three papers by as many Anglo-Jewish
  contributors, with an introduction by Dr Max Nordau, the present
  leader of the movement of Zionism. ... What the capacities of the Jews
  are for national life, what they have done in Palestine already, may
  be read in this book. It is a study of the Jews, full of information
  little known to the Gentile, which appeals at least to intellectual
  curiosity, and very considerably to the sympathies of all educated
  readers.”—Sat R

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:13 Ja ‘17 70w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:53 Ja ‘17 5w

       + =Sat R= 122:137 Ag 5 ‘16 1200w


=GORDON, GEORGE ANGIER.= Appeal of the nation. *75c (4½c) Pilgrim press
172 17-13744

  Five patriotic addresses by the minister of Old South church, Boston.
  Contents: American freedom; The foreign-born American citizen;
  Christian and citizen; American loyalty; The nation and humanity.

  “These lecture-sermons are as Christian as they are patriotic.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 19 ‘17 300w

  “Of the five stirring addresses that make Dr George A. Gordon’s
  ‘Appeal of the nation,’ all are worth reading, but that on our
  foreign-born citizens preaches an understanding sympathy that it were
  well if all native Americans could feel.”

       + =Ind= 90:555 Je 23 ‘17 40w


=GORDON, JAN.= Balkan freebooter. il *$3 Dutton (Eng ed 17-9486)

  “‘A Balkan freebooter’ is a picturesque account, for whose truth the
  author vouches, of a Servian outlaw and comitaj whose career, still
  unfinished, is a compound of those of Robin Hood and Raffles. His name
  is Petko Moritch, and his biographer has had his story from Petko’s
  own lips, altering only the names of the principals, including
  Petko’s.”—Springf’d Republican

  “The story of his eventful life rings with the romance that only
  truth, that strangest thing in the universe, is able to supply. It
  shows the fighting character of the modern Serb, who, like Petko, has
  tramped the plain of Kossovo, fleeing mountainwards, and by some
  miracle of survival, by some quality of superhuman strength, is
  winning his way back into freedom. Mr Gordon’s narrative is
  particularly timely and interesting.” R. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 14 ‘17 600w

  “A fascinating book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:88 Mr 11 ‘17 700w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 11 ‘17 250w


=GORDON, KATE.= Educational psychology. il *$1.35 (2c) Holt 370.1
17-25490

  “The course of study which this book presents is designed for students
  of pedagogy in colleges and normal schools. It presupposes an
  elementary knowledge of psychology. In the earlier chapters ... a
  certain amount of child psychology has been included. ... In later
  chapters, as on memory and reasoning, the procedure of certain class
  experiments has been reported in some detail. ... The last three
  chapters take up some of the concrete questions of teaching in three
  quite dissimilar school subjects. They are intended to illustrate the
  way in which psychological applications can be made.” (Preface) The
  three subjects referred to are Language teaching, Drawing and
  Arithmetic. An eight-page list of references and an index complete the
  work. The author is assistant professor of psychology in the Carnegie
  institute of technology.

  “While the book does present a rather useful collection of
  experimental facts with reference to certain phases of psychology as
  related to education, it is defective as a text in educational
  psychology because of its too great emphasis upon the psychological
  aspect of the subject, because of its style, which is unsuited to
  relatively immature students, and because of its uneven emphasis upon
  different topics.” F. N. Freeman

     – + =El School J= 18:236 N ‘17 800w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:839 D ‘17 50w


=GORELL, RONALD GORELL BARNES, 3d baron.= In the night. *$1.25 (3c)
Longmans 17-29538

  This detective story was planned by Lord Gorell in a base-hospital in
  France, and written during recovery at home. The author who has been
  irritated by writers of detective stories that do not take the reader
  into their confidence, states that in his tale, “every essential fact
  is related as it is discovered and readers are, as far as possible,
  given the eyes of the investigators and equal opportunities with them
  of arriving at the truth.” Sir Roger Penterton is found by his
  secretary, in the middle of the night, lying dead in the hall of his
  country home. The house is occupied by the dead man’s wife, their
  daughter, another young woman, the daughter’s most intimate friend,
  Sir Roger’s secretary, and the servants. Miss Temple, the friend,
  working on lines of her own, is able to give some assistance to
  Inspector Humblethorne. Various theories are developed to account for
  the crime, all of which prove wrong in the end when the mystery is
  finally solved.

  “The author has worked out his theme ingeniously, developing various
  theories to account for the crime and find the guilty person, and
  finally, when he nears the end, providing a double climax of surprises
  before the mystery is finally solved.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:279 Jl 29 ‘17 330w

       + =Spec= 118:732 Je 30 ‘17 30w

  “It is an exciting tale. It seems to be straightening itself out, and
  all of a sudden it is in a tangle again. During the short hour or two
  that the reading of it takes, the size of a shoe becomes of more
  importance than the Hindenburg line. We come back, blinking, to a
  world which we are grateful to the author for helping us to forget.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p236 My 17 ‘17 300w


=GORKY, MAXIM, pseud. (ALEXEI MAXIMOVITCH PYESHKOFF).= In the world. *$2
(1½c) Century 17-21677

  “A year after ‘My childhood’ comes ‘In the world,’ a record of Gorky’s
  experiences whose closing pages find him still a boy. It purports to
  relate the true story of his early life, and it does narrate with an
  extraordinary particularity the scenes he saw, the people he
  encountered and the events of which he was a part during a few of his
  boyhood years. He drifts hither and thither through Russia, inevitably
  returning again and again to the wonderful old grandmother with whom
  he first made us acquainted in ‘My childhood.’ He is a veritable
  jack-at-all-trades, becoming at intervals a shoe-store boy, an
  assistant in an ikon shop, an architect’s helper and a cook’s
  assistant on a Volga steamboat. And during the greater part of this
  period he read many books, and began to make attempts at the writing
  of prose and verse.” (Boston Transcript) The translation is by Mrs
  Gertrude M. Foakes.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:23 O ‘17

  “The book contains many sayings embodying a deep-rooted philosophy of
  common life.”

       + =Ath= p675 D ‘17 160w

  “He wrote fiction as if it were autobiography; he writes autobiography
  as if it were fiction. ... The result is essentially a novel, with
  himself as its hero.” E. F. E.

 *     + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 8 ‘17 1400w

  “Everywhere in this, the second, volume of his life, one finds the
  shining virtues of brevity, concreteness, vigor—always unfailing
  vigor. That there is also a moving sincerity goes without saying,
  since Gorky is in the great Russian tradition. ... The volume gives us
  two or three years only of his life in the world. ... Thus it is still
  almost a child’s world in which we are moving—a world seen with that
  fascinating mixture of sophistication and simplicity which his genius
  made possible.” G: B. Donlin

 *     + =Dial= 63:154 Ag 30 ‘17 1800w

       + =Ind= 92:68 O 6 ‘17 340w

  “It is difficult to understand wherein lies any fascination in these
  pages, which chronicle cruelty, brutality, and a life of coarse and
  often loathsome surroundings, but fascinating they are, grippingly
  interesting, brutally frank, and full of a faith in the Russian race.”

       + =Lit D= 55:40 N 17 ‘17 290w

  “Out of the rubble of human existence his genius is building up one of
  the great life-stories in literature.” R. B.

       + =New Repub= 13:26 N 3 ‘17 1200w

  “There is much in the book that is terrible; there is no little
  beauty, too; and there is a vast amount of fascinating portraiture.
  Gorky’s grandmother is here again, with her strength, her idealism,
  her superstitions, her sympathy. ... The book is crowded with people,
  each sharply individualized, hauntingly alive, fascinating.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:297 Ag 12 ‘17 1450w

       + =Outlook= 116:626 Ag 22 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:743 N ‘17 70w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 10 ‘17 440w

  “It is a wonderfully penetrating piece of self-analysis. It displays
  every great literary quality except charm. But charm is lacking. One
  feels very sorry for the ugly duckling of the steppes whose mental
  fumblings are so elaborately portrayed; but one is never drawn to like
  him, and one never gets away from the painful impression of a world
  full of people whom it would be very unpleasant to associate with.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p514 O 25 ‘17 1050w


=GORKY, MAXIM, pseud. (ALEXEI MAXIMOVITCH PYESHKOFF); ANDREIEFF, LEONID
NIKOLAEVICH; and SOLOGUB, FEODOR, pseud. (FEDOR KUZMICH TETERNIKOV)=,
eds. The shield; with a foreword by W: English Walling; tr. from the
Russian by A. Yarmolinsky. *$1.25 (4c) Knopf 296 17-14798

  The original work from which the selections translated for this volume
  are taken was published last year in Petrograd. It consists of
  studies, essays, stories and poems bearing on the Jewish problem in
  Russia. The editor of the English edition says, “In making a selection
  for the present volume, I have thought it advisable to give decided
  preference to the publicistic articles of the original collection.
  [It] contains practically all the various important studies and essays
  of the Russian ‘Shield,’ while most of the stories have been omitted,
  without great detriment to the book.” Among the contributors are Maxim
  Gorky, writing of Russia and the Jews; Leonid Andreyev, The first
  step; Paul Milyukov, The Jewish question in Russia; M. Bernatzky, The
  Jews and Russian economic life; Prince Paul Dolgorukov, The war and
  the status of the Jew; Fyodor Sologub, The fatherland for all. William
  English Walling in commending the book says that the rebirth in Russia
  cannot be understood apart from the Jewish problem.

  “A truly remarkable revelation of the spirit and purpose of the best
  elements of that New Russia which is now in the making.” Abraham
  Yarmolinsky

       + =Bookm= 46:484 D ‘17 160w

         =Ind= 91:30 Jl 7 ‘17 80w

  “The work is not a defense of the Jews,—praise be! ‘The shield’ has
  the historic interest of a great and noble document, not only because
  of the prominence of the contributors to the volume, but also because
  it is a voluntary and free recognition of human rights, a sort of
  Magna charta to all those who are downtrodden and humiliated.” L: S.
  Friedland

       + =N Y Call= p14 S 9 ‘17 600w

  “The viewpoint of the Russian educated class is nowhere so clearly
  presented as in ‘The shield,’ a volume published in Russia by the
  Society for the study of Jewish life (in which no Jews are allowed
  membership) and now offered in an English translation. ‘The shield’ is
  significant in that fifteen men of letters, publicists, and scientists
  unite in demanding the abrogation of Jewish disabilities in Russia.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:101 Jl ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:419 D ‘17 40w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 1150w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p600 D 6 ‘17 80w

  “Apart from the foreword, the book deserves recognition as a striking
  indication of the fact that before the revolution the leading Russian
  writers were overwhelmingly in favour of the total abolition of the
  shocking disabilities to which the Jews had long been subject in
  Russia. Unfortunately neither Mr Walling nor any one of the
  distinguished Russian editors has thought of informing us when the
  various articles that make up this little book were written. The book
  gives us no word as to the actual position today.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p606 D 13 ‘17 970w


=GOSSE, EDMUND WILLIAM.= Life of Algernon Charles Swinburne. il *$3.50
Macmillan 17-12487

  The only memoir of Swinburne that had been published before the
  appearance of this volume was the sketch contributed by Mr Gosse to
  the “Dictionary of national biography” in 1912. This sketch has been
  used as the basis for this more complete work. Much new material has
  come to the author’s hands however, and he says, “My narrative is
  therefore not merely much fuller than it would have been in 1912, but
  in various respects more accurate.” Contents: Childhood—Eton
  (1837-1853); Oxford (1853-1859); Early life in London (1859-1865);
  “Atalanta in Calydon,” “Chastelard”; “Poems and ballads” (1866); Songs
  of the republic (1867-1870); The middle years (1870-1879); Putney
  (1879-1909); Personal characteristics. Additional letters are given in
  appendixes. The illustrations are worthy of special note.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:57 N ‘17

  “Mr Gosse has written a discriminating and worthy biography of a great
  poet, and has created a strikingly vivid picture of one who might
  truthfully be described, without irreverence, as an illustrious
  oddity. ... The book is biography, not criticism; but we are given
  particulars relating to ‘Atalanta in Calydon,’ ‘Chastelard,’ ‘Poems
  and ballads,’ ‘Songs before sunrise,’ ‘Tristram of Lyonesse,’ and much
  of Swinburne’s other work, which will be read with interest by every
  admirer of the poet.”

       + =Ath= p256 My ‘17 170w

  “Excellent as is his very careful and most interesting account of
  Swinburne’s life and character and work, there are in it here and
  there such evidences of personal bias and even of bitterness as are,
  at least, surprising. This is the more deplorable since there was no
  one so well equipped as Mr Gosse for the writing of a full and
  authoritative biography of Swinburne.” G. I. Colbron

     + — =Bookm= 45:290 My ‘17 450w

  “The reader will receive from Mr Gosse’s biography a clear series of
  impressions of both Swinburne and his work. But it leaves so much
  unsaid, it refers so vaguely to so many significant episodes in
  Swinburne’s career, that the real and complete biography of him
  remains to be written.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 2250w

  “Will probably remain the standard life of Swinburne.”

       + =Cath World= 106:259 N ‘17 600w

  “An extraordinarily vivid and many-sided characterization, with some
  tantalizing reticences and many features of unique interest, such as
  the chapters on Swinburne as a parodist and as a poet of children.”

       + =Cleveland= p115 S ‘17 80w

  “Mr Gosse’s volume is chronological and anecdotal, there is hardly a
  page that is not enriched by some delightful incident or jest
  concerning Swinburne’s time and associates. ... The work speaks from
  the atmosphere of intimacy, and in that position one can
  sympathetically understand the instinctive ‘reticence, tact and
  diplomacy’ for which the English reviewers are so heartily praising
  him. But as an ‘authentication’ of the sacred legend the volume is not
  wholly successful. For, in spite of biographer and reviewers,
  Swinburne wrote and was unashamed of that unique volume, the first
  series of ‘Poems and ballads.’” B. I. Kinne

         =Dial= 63:21 Je 28 ‘17 1800w

         =Ind= 92:65 O 6 ‘17 300w

  “The biographer has succeeded in presenting a substantially truthful
  as well as a vivid picture. He succeeds in conveying the right
  impression, that is to say, the impression which seems to have been
  formed by nearly every one who knew Swinburne intimately, that he was
  a sort of ‘lusus naturæ.’ ... The record of his life which has now
  been given to us does not seem likely to be superseded.”

       + =Nation= 105:201 Ag 23 ‘17 2050w

  “One of the most interesting volumes of biography to come from the
  presses in a long time. ... Mr Gosse’s attitude toward Theodore
  Watts-Dunton, with whom Swinburne spent the last thirty years of his
  life, seems unfair, at the very least.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:181 My 6 ‘17 1700w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:745 N ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p48 O ‘17 30w

       + =R of Rs= 56:103 Jl ‘17 320w

  “Mr Gosse’s ‘Life of Swinburne’ is a brilliant affair in which the
  results of long and careful study come out as easily as if he had been
  at no pains to delve here and there to clear up the difficulties which
  usually attend the careers of men of letters, and to put casual
  misconceptions straight. ... He has not found room to supply an
  estimate of Swinburne’s comparative place in literature, and
  particularly in the history of poetry, but his comments on the various
  poems as they pass under review are usually sound and always neat. The
  volume includes some excellent portraits.”

       + =Sat R= 124:sup3 Jl 7 ‘17 1350w

  “As a friend of thirty years’ standing, a poet, and an accomplished
  critic and man of letters, Mr Edmund Gosse comes to his difficult task
  with an equipment which raises high expectations, largely fulfilled by
  the result. He has given us an extremely interesting and skilful
  memoir of an extraordinary man, and though the limitations necessarily
  imposed on him prevent it from being a complete picture, it is not
  likely to be superseded for a good many years to come. These
  limitations are due to a regard for the living as well as the dead.”

 *     + =Spec= 118:462 Ap 21 ‘17 1800w

 *     + =Spec= 118:490 Ap 28 ‘17 1900w

  “A concrete, well-balanced portrait, the more entertaining for the
  judiciously selected anecdotes and incidents, and the more valuable
  for the authentic glimpses of contacts with other very interesting
  people.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 4 ‘17 1200w

  “You cannot glance at this book without reading it through; and having
  read it you will wish to read the poems again. ... There is in his
  book that real reverence which does not fear to tell the affectionate
  truth.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p169 Ap 12 ‘17 1500w

  “Mr Gosse has condensed the last thirty years of the poet’s life into
  a single chapter, and has devoted the bulk of his volume to the years
  before 1879. He has made his hero a vital if not a very admirable
  figure. He has given us clear sight, though not always full sympathy.
  This vitality of portraiture is likely to be the abiding value of Mr
  Gosse’s book. Faults it has: it is quite too fragmentary to be a
  definite biography; it leaves too much unsaid; there are many passages
  in the life of the poet which are obviously glossed over.” C. B.
  Tinker

     + — =Yale R= n s 7:195 O ‘17 900w


=GOUDGE, HENRY LEIGHTON=, and others. Place of women in the church.
(Handbooks of Catholic faith and practice) *$1.15 Young ch. 396 A17-1510

  The American edition of a volume which was brought out in England and
  to which eight men and women have contributed chapters strongly
  opposing the right of women to exercise any official ministry in the
  churches. Contents: The teaching of St Paul as to the position of
  women; Ministrations of women in church; The ministry of women and the
  tradition of the church; The claim of the priesthood for women; The
  ordination of women; The medical ministry of women; The religious life
  for women; Younger women and the church.

  “The longest and most important is from the pen of Canon Goudge, who
  deals with ‘The teaching of St Paul on the position of women.’ It is
  an instructive exposition of the Apostle’s teaching, but it scarcely
  does justice to the plea of those who urge that the Apostle’s
  arguments and directions deal with circumstances altogether different
  from those of the twentieth century. This volume will be welcomed by
  those who desire to know how it is proposed to meet the arguments of
  Canon Streeter and Miss Picton-Turberville and Mr Allworthy in which
  they plead for some extension, under proper safeguards, of the
  ministry of women in the church.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p329 Jl 12 ‘17 540w


=GOUDIE, WILLIAM JOHN.= Steam turbines. il *$4 Longmans 621.1 17-14113

  “A text-book for engineering students [which] describes clearly the
  various types of land and marine types now on the market (including
  the Ljungström); expounds the theory underlying design and action;
  gives calculations on consumption, efficiency, and the various sources
  of loss; and the design of typical turbines of the various classes,
  including a set of marine turbines of 18,000 shaft horse-power. The
  allied subjects of condensers and condensing plants, however, are not
  included. Clearly illustrated, also well supplied with mathematical
  and steam tables.”—N Y P L New Tech Bks

         =A L A Bkl= 14:80 D ‘17

         =Cleveland= p110 S ‘17 30w

  “‘Altogether this is an excellent treatise, well gotten up, and
  published at a very reasonable price, and although it is described as
  a text-book for engineering students, it should prove of great value
  to the marine engineer, to whom a knowledge of the steam turbine is
  becoming of increasing importance. We can recommend it with the utmost
  confidence.’”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p12 Ap ‘17 130w (Reprinted from
         Shipbuilding and Shipping Record F 22 ‘17)

         =Pittsburgh= 22:662 O ‘17 10w

         =St Louis= 15:174 Je ‘17


=GOUGH, GEORGE W.= Yeoman adventurer. il *$1.40 (1c) Putnam 17-26322

  A tale of adventure in the days of Bonnie Prince Charlie. Master
  Oliver Wheatman is a young Staffordshire farmer who, in spite of
  bookish tastes, yearns for a life of action. The fate that keeps him
  tied down to his ancestral acres, while his chum Jack Dobson goes off
  to fight for the king, seems most unkindly. Then the adventure for
  which he longs is brought into his life most unexpectedly with the
  advent of Mistress Margaret Waynflete, and he finds himself enlisted
  in the Jacobite cause. Exciting incidents follow thick and fast and
  Master Oliver, the yeoman turned soldier, has no longer cause to
  complain of inactivity, and when at the end, he returns to his home,
  he does not come alone.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:353 My ‘17

  “The characters are all delightfully modern, both in speech and in
  action; consequently they are thoroughly lifelike, the bad as well as
  the good, instead of being mere puppets dressed in the costumes of
  1745.”

       + =Ath= p195 Ap ‘16 80w

  “The author has been unusually fortunate in the way in which he has
  succeeded in making the period real to his readers.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 250w

  “Told with an unflagging zest.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 30 ‘17 320w

  “A rather commonplace tale in which youth and beauty play the leading
  parts. ... As a narrative it is neither better nor worse than most of
  its sort.”

         =Dial= 62:313 Ap 5 ‘17 90w

  “A costume story, if you like, an affair of pleasant superficial
  illusion, but of illusion which, one feels, the author himself
  cheerfully and spontaneously shares.”

       + =Nation= 104:460 Ap 19 ‘17 150w

       + =N Y Times= 22:136 Ap 15 ‘17 250w

  “An unusually good specimen of the old-fashioned semi-historical
  romance.”

       + =Outlook= 115:668 Ap 11 ‘17 30w

  “As this is a first novel and is of remarkable promise, we may perhaps
  be allowed to advise the author to avoid making use of ‘types’ in his
  characters, and to describe rather ‘hungering, thirsting men.’”

     + — =Spec= 116:555 Ap 29 ‘16 150w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 120w

  “Mr Gough is so intent on his tale that he has little time to spare
  for much artistry, but he keeps Oliver’s view-point steadily before
  him and merits a big share of the praise due to his hero’s robust and
  tireless efforts.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p164 Ap 6 ‘16 350w


=GOURVITCH, PAUL PENSAC.= How Germany does business. *$1 (4½c) Huebsch
382 17-31429

  An exposition of Germany’s methods of export and finance, with
  chapters on: Politics and economics; Banking facilities; Credits;
  Germany’s merchant marine; Export articles; Reducing the buyer’s
  effort to the minimum; Germany’s economic expansion as a beneficial
  factor in international development; The export of men; Imitation and
  counterfeiting; The cost of labor; etc. The author writes with
  particular reference to the business relations of Germany and Russia.
  The book has a preface by Dr B. E. Shatsky, of Petrograd.

  “It is written with a manifest prejudice against Germany, and hence
  cannot be taken as an entirely reliable survey of German business
  methods in foreign trade. ... This book should be of interest to
  American exporters. However much we may disagree with Germany’s
  motives in trade development and with certain of her export practices
  we acknowledge that she built up a remarkable foreign trade and we may
  profit by the adoption of many of the principles here briefly set
  forth.” H. T. Collings

     + — =J Pol Econ= 26:102 Ja ‘18 710w

       + =New Repub= 13:258 D 29 ‘17 450w

  “Outside of trifles which we dare say will be corrected in future
  editions, the work is on the whole well written, and both interesting
  and instructive.” J. W.

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Ja 5 ‘18 540w

  “The author of ‘How Germany does business’ appears sometimes to be
  disingenuous—or, at least, if he is not that, he is either lacking in
  information (which seems improbable) or takes the complaisant view
  that whatever succeeds is right. ... Especially blind, ethically, is
  the opening chapter on the general question of Germany’s commercial
  expansion in recent years.”

     – — =N Y Times= 22:574 D 23 ‘17 650w

         =R of Rs= 57:101 Ja ‘18 70w


=GRABO, CARL HENRY.= Amateur philosopher. *$1.50 (2c) Scribner 204
17-7480

  “As introduction to his book the author says: ‘Because I believe the
  construction of a philosophy to be the chief end of man, I have made
  bold to write the following pages.’ ... ‘The amateur philosopher’ is
  the personal record of one man’s search for a philosophy of life in
  this present complex day. Dr Grabo was born and brought up in a middle
  western town, conservative, comfortable, orthodox. He was educated at
  an American college. He is now a professor in an American university.
  It is highly probable that thousands of Americans, reading his book,
  will chuckle or sigh over moments of what amounts to pure reminiscence
  from their own lives. ... The writer is old enough, too, to possess
  both perspective and tolerance, while he is essentially young in the
  sense of being, not an eager youth who thinks the world can be set
  right by the wish for upheaval, but an active, forward-thinking
  worker, ‘in the prime of life,’ in the world of today.”—N Y Times

  “It has been criticized as being ‘destructive in tone, without the
  substitution of anything better.’”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:391 Je ‘17

  “Most of the deep emotional experiences of life were unknown to him.
  And so the value of the book is in the author’s account of the way he
  found a place for the spiritual realities in his scheme of things.”

         =Boston Transcript= p7 My 19 ‘17 600w

       + =Cleveland= p66 My ‘17 80w

  “His critique of the college is forceful and true. ... In these first
  chapters full of charm, Mr Grabo details his universal experience.
  Then suddenly, as if stung with modesty, he slips into an impersonal
  outline of his matured philosophy. The result is not happy.” R. B.

     + — =New Repub= 10:383 Ap 28 ‘17 450w

  “It is in response to the average American’s need that his book is
  unique and valuable. ... In all the fourteen chapters of ‘The amateur
  philosopher’ there is not a word of dogmatism, intolerance, arrogance
  of thought or faith. The book is written with a freshness, a sanity, a
  sympathetic understanding of human need that give it a well-nigh
  universal quality.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:67 F 25 ‘17 900w

         =Pratt= p37 O ‘17 10w

  Reviewed by Robert Lynd

       + =Pub W= 91:592 F 17 ‘17 600w

  “Mr Grabo is a trifle disappointing in that he fails to live up to his
  interesting title. Still for one unfamiliar with the terminology of
  philosophers, Mr Grabo’s book will be very welcome. His style is
  simple and clear.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 210w


=GRAHAM, JOHN WILLIAM.= William Penn. il *$2.50 Stokes

  “The present work, by the principal of Dalton Hall, Manchester, is
  adapted for the English reader; and no ‘Life’ in the usual sense has,
  so Mr Graham states, ever been written by an English Friend.” (The
  Times [London] Lit Sup) “The book comprises extracts from Penn’s
  voluminous writings, controversial and other; an interesting
  description of the trial of Penn and Mead at the Old Bailey, where the
  accused gloriously defended and asserted the liberties of Englishmen;
  an account of the foundation of Pennsylvania; a sketch of the
  enlightened system of government established in the province, and of
  Penn’s delightfully humane relations with the Indians; and many
  details of the anxieties, trials, and misfortunes which beset the
  founder in his later years.” (Ath) “It is not a book which represents
  original research, but it is a well-written, sympathetic biography,
  and one of moderate scope; with bibliography and many illustrations,
  notes about which are given in an appendix.” (The Times [London] Lit
  Sup)

       + =Ath= p365 Jl ‘17 290w

  “Having access to all available material and possessing a strong
  biographical sense, the author has presented interestingly and
  concisely one of the best stories of the Quaker colonizer extant.” F.
  P. H.

       + =Boston Transcript= p11 D 5 ‘17 780w

  “In style the book is a trifle disconcerting, but it offers an ample
  reward to the reader that approaches it with an open mind.”

     + — =N Y Times= 23:3 Ja 6 ‘18 500w

  “Mr Graham’s style is fluent and unpretentious. He arranges his
  narrative clearly and tells it vividly. He lets his hero speak for
  himself where possible, and where he has to summarize or assign
  motives, we have no doubt he correctly interprets Penn’s attitude.”

       + =Spec= 118:91 Jl 28 ‘17 1400w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p250 My 24 ‘17 140w

  “The writer, indeed, is at home with his reader and addresses to him
  many asides bearing upon the interests of the present hour, as for
  example upon the Society for psychical research and the maxims of
  George Bernard Shaw. But the interest of the book will centre for most
  readers in the account of the ‘Holy experiment’ in Pennsylvania, where
  an attempt was made to order a society on the generous and humane
  principles which Penn laid down.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p269 Je 7 ‘17 1500W


=GRAHAM, STEPHEN.= Priest of the ideal. *$1.60 (1½c) Macmillan 17-25855

  A piece of fiction that has drawn largely upon the imagination of the
  writer rather than upon the world of facts. It represents the clash
  between modern material greed and early church mysticism. An American,
  representing a syndicate with some billions of dollars to spend,
  approaches the English in this state of mind: “As a result of the
  expense of war you English are now much poorer, we Americans are rich.
  You must be ready to sell certain things to raise money.” His hope is
  to buy out of England’s superfluity of castles, abbeys, monuments,
  historical buildings, etc., enough to serve as a much needed
  background for the new American race. In company with a wandering
  priest the American visits objects of his quest, learning meantime
  from the lips of this idealist that “there is nothing in England which
  has been outlived and which, therefore, could be sold or given away;
  that it was futile to covet the spiritual background of England, the
  only way to acquire material things that symbolize ideals is to fight
  for the ideals.”

  “We hardly think the author has hit upon the literary form appropriate
  to his idea or his own capacities.”

       — =Ath= p596 N ‘17 80w

  “In a sense, Mr Graham’s ‘priest of the ideal’ is merely another of
  those pseudo-Christs whom every modern novelist seems to feel free to
  create in his own image; and the action in which he is concerned is
  very tenuous and impalpable indeed.” H. W. Boynton

     – — =Bookm= 46:600 Ja ‘18 700w

  “In Mr Graham, there is a voice as fearless if not as exceptional as
  Tolstoy’s. His book is, in fact, a review of England through Russian
  eyes, in Russian terms.”

       + =Dial= 64:115 Ja 31 ‘18 470w

  “Some of the descriptions are well done, but the book as a whole is
  tiresome, and its religious mysticism is more than slightly touched
  with hysteria. There is not a single character in it who is real for
  an instant, and while there are a few interesting bits of comment,
  they are not numerous.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:442 O 28 ‘17 370w

  “The romance repays perusal if only for the exquisite delicacy of
  style and the high level of its spiritual perception.”

       + =Outlook= 117:475 N 21 ‘17 60w

  “The strength of the book lies, not in the actuality of its characters
  or in any exciting stir of incident, but in its handling of the vital
  problem which is ever present and never completely solved—the conduct
  of our daily lives. We have one very minor and incidental point to
  urge against Mr Graham before we finish: he owes it to himself to pay
  more attention to the rhythm of his style. Some of his most impressive
  passages are spoiled by the suggested lilt of a verse metre.”

     + — =Spec= 119:sup623 D 1 ‘17 1500w

  “In its sluggish, eventless speculativeness, it is a Russian kind of a
  book. Only a Russian would have done it far better. It is Mr Graham’s
  first novel—if, indeed, it can be classified as a novel—and, one
  believes, his first complete failure.”

     – — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 700w

  “A book into which the author has poured his thoughts and feelings as
  they came to him, with more care for their immediate expression than
  for the form of the whole. Yet the reader may fairly ask himself how
  much of his dissatisfaction—his sense of having looked up and not been
  fed, but swollen with wind and mist—may be due to some lack of time
  and opportunity which compelled Mr Graham to be careless of the
  whole. ... If it is inconsistent, self-contradictory, vague, and here
  and there (doubtless owing to that lack of time and opportunity at
  which we have hinted) nothing else than flabby, it is bright with
  beautiful thoughts and warm with a passion for beautiful living.”

   + – — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p503 O 18’17 820w


=GRAHAM, STEPHEN.= Russia in 1916. il *$1.25 (4½c) Macmillan 914.7
17-6752

  The author believes that the people of the two allied countries, Great
  Britain and Russia, should keep in touch with one another, and
  publishes this little book of impressions in the interests of a better
  understanding. He writes of: A journey to Ekaterina; The dark haven;
  The new Archangel; The cost of living; Life in the country; A Russian
  countess; Russian literature in 1916: Without vodka, beer, or wine,
  etc.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:349 My ‘17

  “There is neither insight nor foresight in this ‘little book of the
  hour.’” Abraham Yarmolinsky

     – — =Bookm= 46:482 D ‘17 160w

  “A slender volume of less than two hundred pages, but it reveals, as
  always in everything Mr Graham writes, the ability to understand
  Russia and a skill at making her understood by the people of other
  nations.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 7 ‘17 1350w

  “The information contained is of precisely the sort that the average
  reader is most eager for.”

       + =Cath World= 105:536 Jl ‘17 470w

  Reviewed by L: S. Friedland

         =Dial= 63:265 S 27 ‘17 500w

  “Slight, but based on three seasons’ personal observations.”

       + =Ind= 90:269 My 12 ‘17 30w

  “There is nevertheless much here which the practical reader will find
  of uncommon interest. The descriptions of Ekaterina and Archangel are
  admirable. The world has been waiting for just the kind of knowledge
  regarding Russia’s new Arctic port that Mr Graham gives us.”

       + =Nation= 104:430 Ap 12 ‘17 1550w

  “Discount the politics and the war prophecies, and much that is
  genuinely revelatory and illuminating does emerge. ... His picture of
  the mood in which Russia accepts the war will endure. Even at the risk
  of displeasing the western political radicals Mr Graham should not be
  frightened from his attempts to convey to us the religious background
  of Russia. He can bring out the shadows and spiritual chiaroscuro of
  the thrilling panorama of revolution.” H. S.

     + — =New Repub= 11:165 Je 9 ‘17 950w

  “When Stephen Graham splutters: ‘The Russia which Gorky attacks is
  just that which is spiritually interesting to us in England—the
  mystical and impractical Russia,’ he reveals himself a downright
  dilettante, an epicurean, an ‘intellectual’ gourmand.” D: Rosenstein

       — =N Y Call= p15 Ag 12 ‘17 1450w

       + =N Y Times= 22:108 Mr 25 ‘17 850w

  “An entertaining record of his experiences, although naturally it is
  hardly a work of permanent value.”

       + =Outlook= 116:116 My 16 ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p46 O ‘17 30w

       + =R of Rs= 55:552 My ‘17 130w

         =St Louis= 15:374 O ‘17 30w

       + =Spec= 118:392 Mr 31 ‘17 110w

  “He belongs to that class of English writers who took it upon
  themselves to whitewash the Russian autocracy and so misrepresent all
  those who had fought against it for more than half a century. I do not
  believe that anybody cares to know now anything about the devotion of
  the Russian people to Czar Nicholas II, or about his angelic
  disposition and his artistic soul.” H.

       — =Survey= 38:76 Ap 21 ‘17 70w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p99 Mr 1 ‘17 420w

  “Mr Graham’s style, often slipshod and careless, occasionally, under
  the inspiration of deep feeling, rises to a height of real beauty.” W:
  L. Phelps

     + — =Yale R= n s 7:187 O ‘17 200w


=GRAHAME-WHITE, CLAUDE, and HARPER, HARRY.= Air power; naval, military,
commercial, il *$3 Stokes 623.7 (Eng ed War17-85)

  “The authors regard the greatest lesson of the war as being that in
  the future a nation which dominates the aerial highways will dominate
  also those of the land and sea, and that a dominion of the air must
  mean, ultimately, the dominion of the world. They illustrate this view
  in a series of chapters dealing with the war in the air, problems in
  construction, after-war policy, factors of safety (the phrase is used
  in more than the engineering sense), popularizing travel by air, laws
  of the air, and the commercial era of flight. They draw an alluring
  picture of the time when a man will be able to dine one evening in New
  York and the next in London, and when aerial excursions will be
  possible at rates which will put them within the reach of all.”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

         =A L A Bkl= 14:80 D ‘17

  “The programme outlined is scarcely ever outside the bounds of
  possibility, but views on aviation will have changed greatly long
  before the programme is completed.”

     + — =Nature= 99:481 Ag 16 ‘17 670w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p3 Jl ‘17 60w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p192 Ap 19 ‘17 130w


=GRANT, ARTHUR.=[2] On the wings of the morning. *$2 Dutton 828

  “Echoes of George Borrow, of Gilbert White, of Richard Jefferies sound
  forth from the pages of Mr Grant’s book of essays. As he journeys ‘On
  the wings of the morning’ into the heart of historic Britain he sees
  there the glory of her past and the beauty of her present. ... Every
  corner of the island whence has arisen a mighty empire contains its
  historic scenes, and in every hill and valley is to be found something
  quaint, something picturesque and something of alluring grandeur. Much
  of all this Mr Grant has witnessed and much of it he records in his
  book. And through it all runs an undercurrent of thought that reflects
  the spirit of the day in which it is written, that reveals how
  constantly in all our minds is the present fighting of Britain and her
  many Allies ‘for God and the right, for a world-peace that can only
  come through sacrifice.’”—Boston Transcript

  “His book should be received with appreciation by those familiar with
  the places named and their literary associations, and attract many
  others to enjoy them.”

       + =Ath= p524 O ‘17 90w

  “The linking of people with places, and of places with people, gives
  to Mr Grant’s essays one of their principal charms.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 29 ‘17 1200w


=GRANT, MADISON.= Passing of the great race; or, The racial basis of
European history, maps *$2 (4c) Scribner 572 16-22372

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “The book contains much solid scientific and historical truth set
  forth with dignity and clearness, although often with a lack of
  coherence. It affords evidence of minute and careful study, even
  though the author never cites his authority for particular statements
  and supplies but a limited bibliography in the appendix. ... But the
  ‘Passing of the great race’ is not so much an objective scientific
  treatise as a carefully reasoned argument in support of preconceived
  convictions. ... The argument of the book must stand for what it is
  worth. To the present reviewer it is unconvincing, partly because it
  rests on debatable assumptions, partly because the method of the
  argument seems itself unsound. ... His determinations often rest on
  the most questionable evidence. ... Mr Grant’s book can hardly be
  regarded as an important contribution to historical science. Its
  dogmatic assurance and its partizanship impair its value to learning.
  Its main thesis is not established, and, in the present state of
  scholarship, is not capable of establishment. For guidance in matters
  relating to European race problems American students of history will
  continue to depend, as they have done for nearly twenty years, on
  Ripley’s solid and discriminating ‘Races of Europe.’” A. B. S.

     – + =Am Hist R= 22:842 Jl ‘17 850w

  “Brevity often forces a more dogmatic opinion than the author probably
  holds, but so many extreme statements are made that the reader often
  wonders what evidence there is. Little mention is made of other
  writers, and even in the bibliography the names of Ammon, Lapouge,
  Reibmayr, Schallmaier, who have advocated similar claims, and
  opponents like Finot and Novicow, are omitted. In spite of many
  defects the position of the author has much to commend it. The volume
  should be studied by all who are interested in the future of our own
  country and in democracy at large.” C. K.

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 70:330 Mr ‘17 180w

  “The migrations of the three races during different periods are
  illustrated by a series of striking maps.”

         =Ath= p250 My ‘17 190w

  “We had thought that this species of race ecstasy, this enthusiasm for
  laying stress on the racial basis of European history, with which the
  name of Houston Stewart Chamberlain is associated, was going out of
  fashion, even in Germany. But that a writer in democratic America
  should give currency to these doctrines is passing strange.”

       — =Ath= p347 Jl ‘17 650w

  “Mr Madison Grant echoes the absurdities of Mr Houston Chamberlain.”
  H. M. Kallen

       — =Dial= 62:432 My 17 ‘17 920w

  “Mr Grant’s account of the distribution of the different races is
  interesting and no doubt as accurate as such speculations can be made,
  but the superstructure of theory and policy which he builds thereon
  must be judged by each reader for himself.”

     – + =Ind= 89:362 F 26 ‘17 180w

     + — =Int J Ethics= 28:295 Ja ‘18 160w

  “We do not recall any other single work which presents, within the
  limited space of one volume, so comprehensive a survey of heredity,
  eugenics, racial characteristics, ruling dynasties, and the steady
  elimination of the unfit.”

       + =Lit D= 54:2000 Je 30 ‘17 450w

  “Three brief chapters present a résumé of our knowledge of prehistoric
  man in the stone and bronze ages. It is interesting to note that the
  detailed treatment begins where Professor Osborn’s recent monumental
  work on ‘Men of the old stone age’ leaves off, and in certain ways may
  be regarded as directly supplemental. ... Slight reference is made to
  the European war, but the application of all the data which Mr Grant
  has assembled to the causes, psychology, and ultimate results of this
  conflict is plainly evident. This and the intelligent attention which
  is directed to the unparalleled mixing of races in our own country are
  the two most potent memories of a perusal of this volume. ... A
  bibliography and thorough index round out a volume of marked
  originality and considerable interest.”

       + =Nation= 104:466 Ap 19 ‘17 770w

         =Nature= 99:502 Ag 23 ‘17 620w

  “For our part, we should like to have the facts examined with much
  more care than Mr Grant has paid them before accepting his doleful
  predictions as true, or even probable.”

       — =Spec= 119:385 O 13 ‘17 1550w

  Reviewed by E. G. Balch

       — =Survey= 39:262 D 1 ‘17 550w

  “All that can be said of some of the statements brought forward by Mr
  Grant as scientific evidence of his thesis is that they are
  incorrect.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p209 My 3 ‘17 1450w

  “Many readers will question Grant’s conclusions, and some will resent
  them. ... Yet his statement of the problem demands serious
  consideration, and his sketch of the development and expansion of the
  Nordic races is an excellent historical résumé. ... The whole lesson
  of biology is that America is seriously endangering her future by
  making fetishes of equality, democracy, and universal education. They
  are of great value, but only when they have good hereditary material
  upon which to work. The books of Morgan, Conklin, and Grant all show
  that we must drastically revise our immigration policy and must strive
  even more diligently to perpetuate the rapidly diminishing type of
  strong-willed idealists who have been the country’s chief leaders.”
  Ellsworth Huntington

       + =Yale R= n s 6:670 Ap ‘17 400w


=GRAY, VIOLET GORDON.=[2] Margery Morris. il *$1.25 (1½c) Penn 17-29733

  Margery Morris, the young heroine of this story for girls, comes from
  California to spend a summer with her grandfather in a small Quaker
  village in New Jersey. An unknown boy cousin meets her at the train
  and tells her that her grandfather is away. Margery, who is something
  of a little snob, finds it necessary to adapt herself to the simple
  living of a plain old-fashioned farm house. She learns to like the two
  boys who call themselves her cousins; makes friends with two jolly
  girls, and only later learns that thru confusion of names she has come
  to visit in the wrong house. Other books in the series are promised.

         =N Y Times= 22:547 D 9 ‘17 70w


=GREEN, JOHN RICHARD.= Short history of the English people; rev. and
enl., with epilogue by Alice S. Green. maps *$2 Am. bk. 942 16-18300

  “The present one-volume edition now given to the public contains all
  the material except the illustrations in the four-volume edition of
  1887 and, in addition, some modifications in the history of Ireland
  which Mrs Green believes her husband would have incorporated had he
  been living. They are due to new material discovered in the last
  thirty-five years since the ‘Short history’ was published.”—Outlook

  “The ‘Epilogue’ is a summary written with a fervid eloquence which
  makes it in its own way singularly attractive. But the fervour
  sometimes leaves the facts obscure; for instance, no one who did not
  know the sequence of events could extract the truth from the summary
  of the Crimean war; whilst an account of the mutiny which does not
  mention John Lawrence and has but a bare reference to his brother can
  only be described as a curiosity. The ‘Epilogue’ is not indeed a
  ‘history,’ and as a review it is written with a definite outlook,
  which if stimulating and suggestive, makes it hardly suitable for
  instruction to those who are not already fairly familiar with the
  facts.” A.

         =Eng Hist R= 32:149 Ja ‘17 250w

       + =Outlook= 115:208 Ja 31 ‘17 200w

  “In the latest reprint Mrs J. R. Green has added an epilogue of one
  hundred and seventy-two pages covering the century from 1815 to 1914.
  A spirited sketch of the social changes and of the imperial and
  foreign problems which have confronted us, it is as dogmatic, as
  biassed, and almost as entertaining as J. R. Green’s own work, though
  he might not have given so much prominence to the so-called Celtic
  influence in British politics. He would certainly have described the
  causes of the war more clearly and more accurately, instead of veiling
  Germany’s direct responsibility for the conflict. An historian of the
  English people ought, we think, to be perfectly definite about this
  important matter. Mrs Green handles it gingerly, as if she doubted our
  good faith and our intense desire to keep the peace.”

         =Spec= 117:348 S 23 ‘16 140w

  “The keenest-eyed literary critic would find it difficult to determine
  from internal evidence where J. R. Green laid down the pen and Mrs
  Green has taken it up. There is the same picturesque style, the same
  gift of epigrammatic expression and faculty for seizing the essential
  detail, the same command of apt quotation, the same imaginative
  intuition, broad outlook on human affairs, and sympathy with national
  and democratic movements.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p365 Ag 3 ‘16 600w


=GREEN, LILIAN (BAYLISS) (MRS ALBERT RANDOLPH GREEN).= Effective small
home. il *$1.50 McBride 640 17-8603

  The author was formerly editor of the Little house department of the
  Ladies’ Home Journal. To help those who live on small incomes and in
  small quarters is her aim in this book. Part 1 is personal. In it she
  writes of her own varied experiences in housekeeping. Part 2 is
  amplified from material prepared for the Ladies’ Home Journal, and has
  chapters on: Suggestions for furnishing, Lighting fixtures, The
  hanging of curtains, Floor coverings, etc. In addition there are
  appendixes giving suggestions for cleaning, recipes, etc. There is a
  short bibliography and an index.

  “The book is full of personality, has some charm and many suggestive
  ideas. It makes a contribution in regard to the treatment of
  apartments and very small rooms. It contains no principles or
  standards by which to decorate, and is a record of ingenuity and taste
  rather than of principles and artistic standards.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:387 Je ‘17

  “A practical book for young housekeepers of moderate means.”

       + =Cleveland= p114 S ‘17 60w

  “A pleasantly personal tone pervades Mrs Green’s contribution.”

       + =Nation= 105:608 N 29 ‘17 250w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:75 My ‘17 80w

       + =N Y Times= 22:201 My 20 ‘17 30w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:666 O ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p25 O ‘17 10w

  “The work points out many short cuts for women who are anxiously
  striving for beauty in the home.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 N 27 ‘17 110w


=GREEN, MARY, pseud. (MRS MARIETTA [MCPHERSON] GREENOUGH).= Better meals
for less money. *$1.25 Holt 641.5 17-13798

  “It is the plan of this book,” says the author, “to include a variety
  of (1) recipes which require only a small amount of meat; (2) recipes
  for vegetable dishes which can take the place of meat; (3) recipes for
  the economical use of cereals, dairy products, and other common
  inexpensive foods; (4) recipes for breads, cakes, and desserts
  requiring only a small amount of butter and eggs; and (5) recipes for
  a few relishes, condiments, and other accessories which lend variety
  and interest.” The first chapter is devoted to General suggestions for
  economy.

  “The general suggestions for economy are useful but the title is
  rather misleading as no meals are planned and the book is just another
  good cook book of selected recipes, well indexed, with an appendix
  which gives tables of weights and measures, temperature, caloric
  values, time tables for cooking and a list (2p.) of government
  publications on foods and cooking.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:434 Jl ‘17

       + =Cath World= 105:412 Je ‘17 110w

         =Cleveland= p87 Jl ‘17 90w

  “Not intended as a complete guide to cookery, this new book, so
  admirable in form and contents, presupposes an elementary knowledge of
  the care and preparation of food, and imparts much knowledge that is
  not elementary.”

       + =Lit D= 55:40 N 3 ‘17 120w

  “Altogether this little book is indispensable for owners of small
  kitchens.”

       + =Nation= 105:347 S 27 ‘17 330w

  “We have personally tested many of the recipes for salads and puddings
  and found them excellent. The author preaches a sort of sensible
  economy which the housewife can practice with much profit.” M. G. S.

       + =N Y Call= p14 My 20 ‘17 120w

       + =N Y Times= 22:173 Ap 29 ‘17 80w

         =Pratt= p26 O ‘17 40w

  “The preface gives general suggestions for economy—the kind a sensible
  housewife can really practise.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:554 N ‘17 90w

  “Another good point about the book is the binding, which is of the
  practical kind that may be handled without soiling.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 14 ‘17 250w


=GREENE, CARLETON.= Wharves and piers; their design, construction and
equipment. il *$3 McGraw 627 17-9604

  “The book is frankly a catalog of standard designs. There appears
  little attempt to expand theory, but as a catalog, using that word in
  its best sense, there is little to be wished for. The main section, is
  devoted to the structure of the piers and wharves themselves. The
  following and less exhaustive part takes up the design of sheds for
  wharves and piers and a final and still less ambitious section is
  devoted to cargo-handling machinery. Finally, a number of detail costs
  afford some general information on that important subject.”—Engin
  News-Rec

         =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 20w

  “In no branch of engineering have there been so many strides forward
  in the past decade as in the design and construction of wharves and
  piers for harbors. ... In spite of this great advance, or perhaps
  because of it, the literature on the subject is most meager.
  Practically everything that can be found on recent wharf and pier
  construction must be sought in the files of technical magazines and
  society publications. Mr Greene has, therefore, done a considerable
  service for the profession in collecting the many types which appear
  in his new book.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:325 Ag 16 ‘17 300w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:76 My ‘17

  “The drawings, most of them dimensioned, are clearly executed.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p6 Ap ‘17 70w

  “‘The subject of pile-driving has not been treated at length in this
  book.’”

         =Pittsburgh= 22:453 My ‘17 50w (Reprinted from Journal of the
         Western Society of Engineers p122 F ‘17)

         =Pratt= p19 Jl ‘17 40w


=GREENE, FREDERICK STUART=, ed. Grim thirteen. *$1.50 (1½c) Dodd
17-23978

  Edward J. O’Brien, editor of “The best short stories of 1916,” in his
  introduction, tells us that six people, four writers, two critics and
  a publisher, talking over the short story became convinced that “a
  grim story, no matter whether it was a literary masterpiece or not,
  was hoodooed.” They then decided to select and publish in book form
  thirteen good stories that had been repeatedly rejected by American
  magazines. All of these stories were praised by editors who rejected
  them. Contents: The day of Daheimus, by Vance Thompson; Rain, by Dana
  Burnet; Old fags, by Stacy Aumonier; The head of his house, by Conrad
  Richter; The Abigail Sheriff memorial, by Vincent O’Sullivan; Easy, by
  Ethel Watts Mumford; The draw-keeper, by Wadsworth Camp; The razor of
  Pedro Dutel, by Richard Matthews Hallet; Knute Ericson’s celebration,
  by Robert Alexander Wason; The parcel, by Mrs Belloc Lowndes; Back o’
  the yards, by Will Levington Comfort and H. A. Sturtzel; The end of
  the game, by William Ashley Anderson; The black pool, by Frederick
  Stuart Greene.

  “They form a protest against the commercial standards which have shown
  these writers that ‘some of their finest imaginative work could not
  achieve magazine publication without sensible modification.’ Not
  written for immature minds.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:60 N ‘17

  “Capt. Greene has proved all he has undertaken to prove and suggested
  very potent reasons for the freeing of our creative literature from
  the shackles at present imposed upon it.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 26 ‘18 1000w

  “There is not one story in the volume that is mechanical, mediocre, or
  of the merely competent order that suffices for our monthly fiction.
  And what is similarly surprising is the distinguished style, the
  poetic perception, the high literary quality revealed in most of the
  rejected thirteen.” L: Untermeyer

     + — =Dial= 64:70 Ja 17 ‘18 1150w

  “There is not a story with the indubitable touch of genius to lift it
  from the ‘grim’ to the tragic. Half of them are written in the same
  style, the American Magazine or, let us say, Saturday Evening Post
  style, and might have been written by the same brisk, ingenious hand.”

       — =Nation= 105:694 D 20 ‘17 370w

  “The circumstances under which the book is spun out at the public over
  the heads of the rejecting editors are an indictment of the magazine
  editors of the whole country. ... And it is a mighty good thing that
  somebody has had the spirit and the confidence in the American public
  to make such a test of its intelligence. ... Some of the thirteen
  stories reach a much higher level of literary quality than do others.
  For it is easy to see, with some of them, that gruesome theme or
  unhappy ending was not the sole reason for their untoward fate in
  magazine offices. But some of them are so true in their picturing of
  life, so fine in their artistry, and so high in their literary quality
  that one marvels at their continued rejection.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:329 S 9 ‘17 1800w

  “In tone and atmosphere the stories must be classified with that
  grimly imaginative school of which Poe was the master. Still each plot
  is distinctly original. Each one is vivid, thrilling and direct, and
  many of them display a keen intuition and a sense of psychological
  values.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 360w


=GREENE, HARRY PLUNKET.= Pilot, and other stories. il *$2 (5c) Macmillan
16-22978

  “Pilot,” the longest of the six stories in this book, is the story of
  a dog. Pilot is an English dog with a fondness for poaching, and his
  adventures are many and amusing. The remaining stories are about
  children and animals; among them there is one story for fishermen.
  Bight of the illustrations are in color.

       + =N Y Times= 22:41 F 4 ‘17 80w

  “Our notice must not end without a few words of praise for the
  admirable illustrations of Mr H. J. Ford, so long and honourably
  associated with the fairy books of the late Andrew Lang. Here,
  however, he shows a range and versatility for which we were hardly
  prepared, and has collaborated with the author with most delightful
  results, whether his aim has been realistic, grotesque, or fantastic.”

       + =Spec= 117:706 D 2 ‘16 700w

  “The story of his doings is so entertainingly and humorously told that
  the book should prove interesting to readers of all ages.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 2 ‘16 70w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p603 D 14 ‘16 350w


=GREENE, HOMER.= Flag. il *$1.25 (2c) Jacobs 17-22701

  In a school-boy snowball battle, one of the two leaders wraps himself
  in the American flag as a means of protection in an assault, but his
  opponent, Penfield Butler, tears it from him and it is trampled and
  torn under their feet. Made to feel that his act was unpardonable,
  called “Benedict Arnold” by his companions, Penfield is forced to
  leave school. Thereafter he goes branded, is refused admission to the
  national guard, but finally takes part in the European war and thereby
  regains his good name.

  “Marred by sentimentality.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:173 F ‘18

         =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 30w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:840 D ‘17 50w

  “A wholesome story of military patriotism for boys told in a manly,
  straightforward style.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 23 ‘17 80w


=GREENE, KATHLEEN CONYNGHAM.= Little boy out of the wood, and other
dream plays. *75c Lane 822 16-23242

  A collection of fanciful little plays for reading. The titles are: The
  little boy out of the wood; Night watch; The poppy seller; The first
  Christmas eve; The vision splendid; The princess on the road; The two
  bad fairies. A note says, “Of the plays that form this book only
  one—‘The two bad fairies’—was written for a stage. The other six are
  dreams.”

  “Recalling in the delicate allegory Olive Schreiner’s ‘Dreams’ comes
  ‘The little boy out of the wood.’ These are ‘dream plays,’ tragic and
  comic, and exquisite in workmanship.”

       + =Ind= 89:274 F 12 ‘17 30w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:21 F ‘17 30w

  “Arranged for reading aloud.”

         =R of Rs= 55:441 Ap ‘17 70w


=GREENOUGH, CHESTER NOYES, and HERSEY, FRANK WILSON CHENEY.= English
composition. il *$1.40 Macmillan 808 17-15557

  “Professor Greenough and Mr Hersey have prepared a most interesting
  text-book on ‘English composition,’ What they term ‘mechanics,’ that
  is troublesome points of grammar, punctuation, spelling are touched in
  short final chapters. The main chapters are on exposition, argument,
  description, narration, structure, with clear and suggestive
  discussion of the topics, and fine examples. The first chapter on
  gathering and weighing of material is especially to be noted, for it
  gives the pupil all sorts of practical, helpful hints that students
  must usually work out for themselves slowly at great waste of time or
  never work out at all.” (Ind) Dr Greenough is professor of English at
  Harvard university.

  “Occasionally a volume appears which from its preface onward towers
  above the jumble of its competitors. Such a volume is this ‘English
  composition.’ The arrangement of the contents is unexceptionable.
  Better even than the arrangement, however, is the excellence of the
  presentation.”

       + =Dial= 63:410 O 25 ‘17 120w

       + =Ind= 91:235 Ag 11 ‘17 100w

  “If a criticism were to be made it would be that the authors treat
  composition as chiefly an exhibition of cleverness. They send a chiel
  out into the world notebook in hand and eye alert chiefly for the
  technical tricks of the trade. ... Beyond such technical matters a
  book on composition is perhaps not bound to go: within this field it
  would be difficult to find one that functions more efficiently; it
  makes one cast about at once for a sharp pencil. An interesting
  concession to the present interest in the spoken word, the book
  contains a rather prim little chapter on pronunciation.”

       + =Nation= 105:260 S 6 ‘17 220w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:124 Ag ‘17

  “The first work of its kind to bring the student ample descriptive
  extracts from famous writers illustrated with photographs of the
  actual scenes described by them.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:216 Ag ‘17 290w


=GREGOR, ELMER RUSSELL.= White Otter. il *$1.35 (2c) Appleton 17-8586

  A sequel to “The red arrow.” White Otter is the young Sioux who was
  the hero of that tale. In this story he is again pitted against his
  tribal enemies, the Pawnees. In a great battle his grandfather, the
  Sioux chieftain, is taken prisoner and White Otter, following on the
  enemy’s trail, sets him free. It is a story of Indian life before the
  coming of the white man.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:453 Jl ‘17

         =N Y Times= 22:314 Ag 26 ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:401 N ‘17 20w


=GREGOROVITSH, DIMITRY.= Fishermen. *$1.50 (1½c) McBride

  Dimitry Gregorovitsh was a contemporary of Tourgeniev. Angelo S.
  Rappoport, in the introduction to this novel, says that he is rightly
  considered one of the best exponents of the life of the Russian
  working people. The present story, here translated into English for
  the first time, centers about the family of Glyeb Savinitsh, a
  fisherman. Vania, Glyeb’s youngest son, and Grishka, an adopted child,
  are boys of the same age who grow up together, sharing alike in the
  family fortunes. Indeed, in spite of his shortcomings, Grishka seems
  to hold first place in the affections of the father. Knowing that
  Dounia, the girl both young men come to love, has given herself to
  Grishka, Vania takes his foster brother’s place as conscript in the
  army. Grishka, left free, marries Dounia and wrecks her happiness as
  he does that of the family that has sheltered him. An evil influence
  in the story is that of Zakhar, a product of the factory system,
  which, at the time that the book was written, was only beginning to
  invade the rural villages of Russia.

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 60w

  “Grigorovich lacked deep psychological insight; he was more of a
  careful landscapist and an ethnographic observer than a vivisector of
  the human soul. Only in exceptional cases did he succeed in depicting
  a boldly outstanding character, as, for instance; in the old fisherman
  Glyeb.”

     + — =Nation= 106:20 Ja 3 ‘18 330w

  “Though ‘The fishermen’ has a slightly oldfashioned air about it, it
  is an air of sentiment rather than of sentimentality, and gives to
  realism the balance necessary to save it from becoming naturalism.
  ‘The fishermen’ reminds one of George Sand’s pastoral tales; it
  possesses a charm which is not glamour and a truth which is not all
  ugliness.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:570 D 23 ‘17 600w

         =Pratt= p51 O ‘17 10w

  “The author stands only in the second or third rank of Russian
  literature, has no life-message as Dostoevsky and Tolstoy have, and
  the picture which he gives of Russian life is not distinctive. ... The
  patriarchal life of Glyeb’s family ought to be interesting, but one
  never gets into the midst of it, and evidently the author himself is
  an outsider, having only a partial sympathy. ... The translation is
  without charm, and if the author is prolix the translator emphasizes
  the defect.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p42 Ja 25 ‘17 850w


=GREGORY, JACKSON.= Wolf breed. il *$1.40 (2c) Dodd 17-25854

  The North woods provide the setting of a tale of avarice, jealousy and
  passion among men who, for greed of gold or refuge from the law,
  collect there in strange ill-assortment. Among the habitues of a
  frontier settlement house is No Luck Drennen who had grown hard,
  cynical, and evil-minded thru loss of faith in men he had trusted. He
  knows where to find gold; others know that he knows. Drennen becomes
  suspicious that every body is trying to pry into his secret and wrest
  from him his prospects. He includes in his suspicions a southern girl
  who mysteriously appears at the settlement. Woman hater tho he be and
  sharp of tongue he finds a match in Ygerne Bellaire whose clever
  fencing wins the admiration and love of the “lone wolf.” Treachery and
  misunderstanding make their romance a difficult one but they find a
  way out to happiness.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 190w

  “It may be summed up as a tale of red blood pumped up by machine.”

       — =Nation= 105:667 D 13 ‘17 90w

  “The tale of these fights and entanglements, the thrill and the zest
  of it, is well told. It is like nothing so much as the novelization of
  one of the famous ballads of Robert W. Service.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:469 N 11 ‘17 250w

  “It is a lively and quite impossible tale.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 21 ‘17 320w


=GREGORY, RICHARD ARMAN.= Discovery; or, The spirit and service of
science. il *$1.75 Macmillan 504 (Eng ed A16-1381)

  “The spirit in which men of science devote themselves to the
  investigation and understanding of nature, the results of their
  discoveries in the increase of man’s power—these are the themes of the
  book.” (Sat R) “In his references to the life and work of men like
  Galileo, Newton, Faraday, Darwin, Huxley, Kelvin, and Pasteur, the
  author illustrates the spirit of the discoverer—his fanaticism for the
  sanctity of truth, his disinterestedness and impersonal detachment,
  his delight in his work, and his cautious yet alert recognition of the
  possibility of error. ... Much of the book is an eloquent commentary
  on the text: ‘The future of our civilisation depends upon the widening
  spread and deepening hold of the scientific habit of mind.’” (Nature)

  “The essays, twelve in number, are readable, concrete in their
  treatment, and meant for the layman.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:382 Je ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p149 D ‘16 40w

  Reviewed by J. A. Thomson

       + =Nature= 97:438 Jl 27 ‘16 950w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:154 O ‘16

         =Pittsburgh= 22:239 Mr ‘17

         =Pratt= p15 Ap ‘17 20w

       + =Sat R= 122:89 Jl 22 ‘16 1000w

  “The appearance of this book could not well have been more timely.” T.
  B. Robertson

       + =Science= n s 45:143 F 9 ‘17 300w


=GREW, EDWIN SHARPE, and others.= Field-Marshal Lord Kitchener; his life
and work for the empire. 3v il *25s 6d Gresham pub. co., London

  A life of Lord Kitchener complete in three volumes. “The first volume
  deals with Kitchener’s early years, his work in Palestine, and the
  Egyptian campaign. The second volume begins with the Fashoda incident,
  and then deals with the Boer war.” (Ath) “The third volume treats of
  the present war, of Lord Kitchener’s magnificent work in raising the
  new armies, and of his death in the ‘Hampshire’ on June 5th last.”
  (Spec)

  “A useful and careful piece of work. ... At the same time we should
  welcome a little more biography and a little less history.”

       + =Ath= p599 D ‘16 70w (Review of v 1 and 2)

  “Carefully written and contains a good deal of new matter.”

       + =Spec= 117:448 O 14 ‘16 80w (Review of v 1)

       + =Spec= 118:368 Mr 24 ‘17 70w (Review of v 2 and 3)

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p454 S 21 ‘16 80w (Review of v 1)

  “Cooperative biography is not an ideal arrangement, but in this case
  the chapters blend surprisingly well, and the whole narrative flows
  with an ease which makes it a pleasure to read throughout.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p612 D 14 ‘16 450w (Review of v 1
         and 2)


=GREY, ZANE.= Wildfire. il *$1.35 (1½c) Harper 17-2028

  Wildfire, an untamed red stallion, is the hero of this story. Lucy
  Bostil, the pride of her father’s heart and a girl who doesn’t know
  the meaning of fear, is its heroine. Lin Slone, who tracks Wildfire up
  from Utah and captures him, is the horse’s nominal owner, but Lucy is
  the real owner, for it is to her the beautiful wild horse gives his
  heart. Lucy rides him once in a race against her father’s favorite,
  Sage King. She rides him again in a race for life against prairie
  fire. It is an exciting story of the days when Colorado was less
  settled and civilized than it is today.

  “More sensational than some of his other stories.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:315 Ap ‘17

  “The story would make an excellent foundation for a moving-picture
  scenario. But still, ‘Wildfire’ possesses certain virtues of its
  own—the virtue of being straight, clean, and exciting, and the virtue
  of lacking the psychological sickliness and the maunderings of much of
  our third-rate fiction.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Mr 17 ‘17 230w

  “After one has followed the story even with intensity, it fades a
  little in the mind in the days that come after, while one still
  remembers the atmosphere of the book or the characters.” E: E. Hale

       + =Dial= 62:105 F 8 ‘17 500w

  “Will add nothing to the author’s reputation. It lacks the atmosphere
  of his early novels and falls short of their restrained power. It is a
  shallow and sensational story.”

       — =Ind= 90:87 Ap 7 ‘17 50w

       + =N Y Times= 22:21 Ja 21 ‘17 350w

  “It is not like other books. It’s a horse story and—actually—unique.”
  M. A. Hopkins

       + =Pub W= 91:210 Ja 20 ‘17 350w

  “Compares favorably with Mr Grey’s best stories.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 11 ‘17 200w


=GRIBBLE, FRANCIS HENRY.= Women in war. *$2.75 Dutton 920.7 (Eng ed
16-23097)

  “This book, so eminently topical, was yet written, Mr Gribble tells
  us, before the world-war was talked of. It is an interesting account
  of individual women or groups of women noted for deeds of bravery,
  adventurous exploits, or for some special association with war from
  the time of Boadicea to that of Florence Nightingale. In an epilogue,
  in which Mr Gribble endeavours to bring the record somewhat up to
  date, he tells us that he was interned in Germany, and has something
  to say of German women in war time. ... The epilogue also records the
  experiences of some of the women who have served in the Russian and
  Austro-Hungarian armies—‘no fewer than twenty of them in the Voluntary
  Ukraine legion alone’—and of the women doctors and nurses who went
  through the Serbian campaign.”—Spec

  “Mr Gribble writes of Jeanne d’Arc in detail, and with an open mind
  attempts to give her a proper place in history, conceding neither to
  M. Anatole France that she was merely the tool of the clergy, nor to
  Andrew Lang that she was the great military leader he thought her. His
  searching desire for fairness toward Jeanne d’Arc gives one confidence
  in the author’s estimate of other women warriors with whose reputation
  the reviewer is less familiar.”

       + =Dial= 63:166 Ag 30 ‘17 230w

  “It sketches in a light superficial manner the heroic or eccentric
  doings of a motley group of thirty or forty women, ranging in point of
  time from Countess Matilda of Tuscany to Miss Edith Cavell. The only
  nexus among them all is that each was in some way connected with war,
  either leading it like Jeanne D’Arc, or in supposedly causing it like
  the Empress Eugénie, or in suffering from it like Lady Sale, or in
  some other more or less remote fashion.”

         =Nation= 105:204 Ag 23 ‘17 350w

  “Mr Gribble has made for himself more or less of a reputation as an
  entertaining but superficial writer on some of the intimate phases of
  history, especially those connected, and too often scandalously, with
  women. In this book he has collected with great industry an immense
  amount of information about what specific women have done in war and
  in the influencing of countries or individuals in times of war and as
  companions of warriors.”

         =N Y Times= 22:348 S 16 ‘17 140w

  “Reading Mr Gribble’s pages, one can hardly realize that they record
  historical facts. The stories that he relates have all the fascination
  of fiction.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:215 Ag ‘17 120w

       + =Spec= 117:632 N 18 ‘16 210w

  Reviewed by L. A. Mead

         =Survey= 38:553 S 22 ‘17 230w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p532 N 9 ‘16 1000w


=GRIERSON, RONALD.= Some modern methods of ventilation. il *$3 Van
Nostrand 697 17-12836

  “The author’s expressed purpose is to present, in as simple and
  concise a form as possible, the general principles and practice of
  design of a modern ventilating plant. This is accomplished as fully as
  could be expected in a book of less than 200 pages. ... Although based
  upon English practice, it presents American practices more fully and
  correctly than any other British book on this subject known to the
  reviewer. Many of its 40 tables are from American authorities, and all
  are in accordance with the most modern practice. A similar statement
  would apply to the illustrations.”—Engin News-Rec

         =Cleveland= p113 S ‘17 30w

  “Although the book will scarcely meet the needs of the student
  beginner in this subject, nor completely satisfy the needs of the
  well-informed engineer, yet it may well interest both and it is a
  desirable addition to any library on the subject of ventilation. The
  descriptions and definitions are models of conciseness and
  clearness. ... As a whole, the book appears to be the product of one
  who is thoroughly versed in the theory and practice of modern
  ventilating work.” D. D. Kimball

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:602 Je 21 ‘17 350w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:106 Jl ‘17

  “‘The author of this contribution to a literature which is admittedly
  scanty has not attempted an exhaustive theoretical treatise. He has
  sifted with a good deal of skill bred of intimate knowledge of the
  practical side of his subject. Moreover the plant, instruments and
  methods of which he treats are up-to-date and fairly comprehensive, so
  that the result is a satisfactory and useful statement of things as
  they are.’”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:453 My ‘17 70w (Reprinted from Ironmonger p186
         Mr 24 ‘17)

         =Pittsburgh= 22:518 Je ‘17


=GRIFFITH, IRA SAMUEL.= Carpentry. il $1 Manual arts press 694 17-1599

  “This is really the complete story of the building of a modern house,
  from surveying and staking out to hanging the windows and
  doors.”—School Arts Magazine

  “A textbook for use by trade apprentices, students in vocational and
  trade schools and students of manual arts. It is a clear treatise on
  the every-day problems of the carpenter and house builder. As a
  textbook on carpentry, it meets every requirement of the student. No
  other publication has ever undertaken to cover the essentials of house
  building in a manner adapted for school use as this book on
  ‘Carpentry.’”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:453 My ‘17 100w (Reprinted from Furniture
         Manufacturer and Artisan p139 Mr ‘17)

  “Author is an experienced carpenter and is chairman of the Manual arts
  department, University of Missouri. He has written several excellent
  elementary books on woodworking, which are recommended.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ap ‘17 70w

  “There are more than 150 illustrations. It is a book for apprentices,
  trade school students, and anybody who wants to know how houses are
  built.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 16:356 Ap ‘17 60w

  “One of the best textbooks for students beginning a study of this
  subject.” F. M. Leavitt and Margaret Taylor

       + =School R= 26:63 Ja ‘18 120w


=GRIFFITH, WILLIAM.= Loves and losses of Pierrot. il *$1 Shores 811
16-22429

  “In his ‘Loves and losses of Pierrot,’ William Griffith again proves
  the validity of his poet-gifts and the great charm of a suggestive
  sketch-book manner of using the old meters. ... Aside from the origins
  of the Pierrot legend, there are many suggestions that Mr Griffith has
  gone deep into the study of eighteenth-century France.”—N Y Times

       + =Dial= 61:543 D 14 ‘16 90w

  “A slender book of delicately alluring lyrics finely and gracefully
  wrought.”

       + =Ind= 89:235 F 5 ‘17 40w

       + =Lit D= 54:209 Ja 27 ‘17 130w

  “‘Spring life and spring sadness,’ is Mr Le Gallienne’s deft
  characterization of these songs, and little more is to be said.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:55 F 18 ‘17 150w


=GRIMM, MINERVA E.=, comp. Translations of foreign novels: a selected
list. (Useful reference ser.) *$1 Boston bk. 016.8

  This bibliography aims to bring together in convenient form some of
  the translations of foreign fiction. The general arrangement is by
  language. French and German first, these being the largest divisions.
  Then follow in alphabetical order: Belgian; Chinese; Danish; Dutch;
  Egyptian; Flemish; Greek; Hungarian; Italian; Norwegian; Polish;
  Roumanian; Russian; Spanish; Swedish; Yiddish. Under each language
  there is an alphabetical arrangement by author. The title index is
  arranged alphabetically according to title, with the language
  designated after each author and with cross references from other
  titles for the same book. The list was originally compiled as a
  bibliography presented for graduation in the New York library school
  in 1914, and was brought up-to-date before publication. “Each book in
  the list was examined at the time of compilation. It was available
  either in the reference department, the circulation department, or in
  the Library school of the New York public library. Some of the earlier
  publications are probably out of print, but entries were made for
  every book in fair condition, with a reasonable length of life before
  it.” (Preface)


=GRISAR, HARTMANN.= Luther; authorized tr. from the German, by E. M.
Lamond; ed. by Luigi Cappadelta. v 6 *$3.25 Herder 15-12670

  The final volume of Father Grisar’s study of Luther comes from the
  press in the year of the 400th anniversary of the reformation. In
  conclusion the author says that his constant endeavor has been “to get
  as close as possible to the real Luther and not to present a painted
  or fictitious one.” The volume contains the index for the entire work.

  “The sixth volume of Prof. Grisar’s biography of the reformer
  displays, equally with the previous volumes, the author’s scholarship,
  industry, and endeavour to write with impartiality.”

       + =Ath= p418 Ag ‘17 50w

  “The readers of these six volumes of Father Grisar must indeed
  recognize that he has written the most objective, the most thorough
  and most unprejudiced life of Luther.”

       + =Cath World= 106:247 N ‘17 600w

  “As a Jesuit, the author has no sympathy for Luther, but he has spared
  no pains to state the facts about the reformer, and his general
  estimate of Luther’s character, especially in its mystical and its
  intolerant phases, is well worth reading.”

       + =Spec= 119:16 Jl 7 ‘17 100w

  “Perhaps it is in the nature of the case impossible that a man who is
  so identified with the Roman system as an earnest and able Jesuit must
  needs be should be able to appreciate the motive force of its most
  deadly opponent. He is so absorbed in his psychological theories, and
  in minute points of historical accuracy, that he fails to grasp and to
  describe the great currents of Luther’s thought and action. Professor
  Grisar does not give a living history, but an elaborate and critical
  commentary on the history.”

 *   – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p521 N 1 ‘17 3750w


=GRONER, AUGUSTA.= Joe Muller, detective; tr. by Grace Isabel Colbron.
*$1.25 Duffield

  “A little, mild-looking, meek-mannered, gentle-voiced man—and the
  best, most famous detective attached to the Secret service of the
  Austrian police; such is Joe Muller, the hero and principal figure in
  the five ingenious tales which make up this little book. The first and
  longest, a novelette, in fact, rather than a short story, is the one
  entitled ‘The lamp that went out.’ One of those murder cases which
  seem so simple and obvious, and are really so very complicated, is
  this tale of the man whose dead body was found in a lonely road.” (N Y
  Times) The other titles are: The case of the registered letter; The
  case of the pocket diary found in the snow; The case of the pool of
  blood in the pastor’s study; The case of the golden bullet.

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:131 S ‘17 30w

       + =N Y Times= 22:276 Jl 22 ‘17 230w


=GROSVENOR, JOHNSTON.= Strange stories of the great valley. il *$1 (2½c)
Harper 17-12138

  A story of the Ohio valley one hundred years ago. The young hero,
  Obadiah Holman, a New England boy, floats down the Ohio river, with
  his parents, to find a new home in Indiana. He meets and makes friends
  with many of the great men of the time and with one boy who was to
  become a great man, Abraham Lincoln. Of the incidents of the book, the
  author says, “They are almost true. ... In substance they are a
  faithful picture of the sort of adventures that helped pioneer lads of
  the great valley to grow into the full measure of men.”

  “A really good, human book for children.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:314 Ag 26 ‘17 70w

  “Each story is complete in itself, but they fit together and are all
  the better for it; and Mr Grosvenor is a capital story teller.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 190w


=GROTIUS, HUGO.= Freedom of the seas; or, The right which belongs to the
Dutch to take part in the East Indian trade. *$1 Oxford 341 16-10705

  “A translation of Grotius’s famous treatise, one of the foundations
  and sources of international law. The book contains the Latin text of
  1633, revised and an English translation by Ralph Van Deman Magoffin,
  associate in Greek and Roman history, and Roman archaeology in the
  Johns Hopkins university. There is an introductory note by James Brown
  Scott, director of the division of international law of Carnegie
  endowment. Grotius’s treatise was naturally not altogether popular in
  England in the 17th century because he denied to any nation the right
  to claim large tracts of the open sea for its own particular use. The
  work was not, however, directed against England. It was written to
  make good the right of the Dutch to continue trading with the East
  Indies.”—Springf’d Republican

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 15 ‘17 200w

  “The work is singularly unsuggestive as to present or probable future
  controversies.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p86 F 22 ‘17 1250w


=GRUMBACH, S.=[2] Germany’s annexationist aims; tr., abbreviated and
introduced by J. Ellis Barker. *$1.50 Dutton 327.43 17-29849

  “Mr Barker is familiar with the politics, language, and literature of
  Germany, and held international rank as an authority in regard thereto
  before war began. In his introduction to this book he says that
  ‘Germany’s war-aims are not sufficiently known in this country’; and
  he proceeds to speak of ‘Herr S. Grumbach’s monumental volume. “Das
  annexionistische Deutschland,” published by Payot & Co., at Lausanne,
  in 1917,’ as affording the information not hitherto accessible here.
  To render it so has been his wish, as translator and abbreviator. It
  is his conviction, well based, as his numerous quotations and excerpts
  prove, that German annexationists, belonging to all classes of
  society, have formed almost boundless plans of conquest in Europe and
  on the continents beyond.’”—Lit D

         =Ath= p671 D ‘17 110w

         =Lit D= 56:39 Ja 12 ‘18 250w

       + =Spec= 119:sup474 N 3 ‘17 100w

  “On some points his book shows the result of haste in its compilation,
  but none the less it is a very useful piece of work, which should be
  widely known.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p522 N 1 ‘17 850w


=GRUNSKY, CARL EWALD, and GRUNSKY, CARL EWALD, jr.= Valuation,
depreciation and the rate-base. diags *$4 Wiley 338 17-1339

  “This volume is a notable addition to the small number of books that
  treat at all fully the subject of valuation and related problems. It
  contains an introductory discussion; carefully written definitions of
  many of the terms used; a statement of fundamental principles; a full
  discussion of the various matters that effect valuation and rate
  making; chapters relating to the value of real estate, water rights
  and reservoir and watershed lands; a special chapter by Carl Ewald
  Grunsky, jr., on the valuation of mines and oil properties ... tables
  giving the probable useful life of various articles and expectancy of
  life and remaining value upon a given theoretical basis; and a series
  of tables relating to compound interest, present worth, annuities,
  amortization and depreciation.”—Engin N

  “Less a comprehensive and systematic discussion of valuation and rate
  making in accordance with present procedure than the presentation of
  particular views based on personal experience and study. There is
  commendable omission of numerous elementary commonplaces, but
  unfortunately particular points are uselessly repeated over and over
  and, in general, material, much of it irrelevant, is presented in a
  very disorganized fashion.” J: Bauer

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:634 S ‘17 1000w

       + =American Gas Engineering Journal= p302 Mr 24 ‘17

         =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 10w

  “While, as indicated above, the book in some of its main features
  seems not to make recommendations along practical and progressive
  lines, it is the result of personal contact, long experience and much
  study of the valuation problem, has been written with much care and
  contains many valuable ideas, so that it should have a place in the
  library of all those interested in valuation.” F: P. Stearns

       + =Engin N= 77:434 Mr 15 ‘17 1100w

  “Chapter 12, on the accounting system, is not up to date. ... The
  reviewer commends the book to the libraries of valuation men, not
  because it is a model of clearness, nor even because he thinks the
  depreciation problem is as desperately complex as the authors make it,
  but because the authors have painstakingly expounded a fair-minded
  theory about which valuation men should know something, and because
  they have presented some remarkably complete tables.” C. W. Stark

       + =Engin Rec= 75:475 Mr 24 ‘17 850w

  “This work on the valuation of utilities and mines contains little new
  material for most students of the subject. It is primarily an
  exposition of established practices in valuation without much critical
  appraisal of their soundness. Students beginning the study of
  valuation, however, will find the work a clear and helpful
  presentation of the subject.”

     + — =J Pol Econ= 25:757 Jl ‘17 370w

  “The book is not suited for popular reading, but has value for
  technicians. Its preparation marks a decided step in the regulation of
  utilities. We hear so much about it that it might be thought an old
  art. In fact, it is so new that it has hardly developed its science.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:174 Ap 29 ‘17 220w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:336 Ap ‘17 50w

  “The engineer or utility official ... will probably find the
  mathematical and tabular information of considerable value.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:453 My ‘17 170w (Reprinted from Electric
         Railway Journal p674 Ap 7 ‘17)

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:822 D ‘17 20w

       + =Railway Review= p539 Ap 14 ‘17


=GRUNZEL, JOSEF.= Economic protectionism; ed. by Eugen von Philippovich.
*$2.90 Oxford 337 (Eng ed 16-23811)

  “This volume is the first published by the Division of economics and
  history of the Carnegie endowment for international peace. ... The
  book covers a much wider range of topics than is ordinarily covered in
  books on the protective question. Not duties upon imports alone are
  considered, but also the regulation and manipulation of railway rates
  for the purpose of affording protection, and administrative measures
  which, though nominally for hygienic and sanitary purposes, in reality
  are designed to impede importation. Export duties naturally receive
  attention; and further, the import and export of capital, and
  immigration and emigration.”—Nation

  Reviewed by A. L. Bishop

         =Am Econ R= 7:659 S ‘17 600w

  “The volume will be chiefly valuable as a general presentation of a
  subject, too much neglected by American writers, which is bound to
  attract greater attention in the immediate future. More particularly
  the second part will be useful, for few people realize the wide extent
  of the measures already adopted by various countries in carrying out
  this policy. But as a theoretical discussion of the economic soundness
  and political wisdom of the policy as a whole it is inadequate.” C. W.
  Wright

     + — =Am Hist R= 22:851 Jl ‘17 700w

  “It has been strongly criticized for its protectionist bias.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:376 Je ‘17

  “Its purpose is to survey the problem of protectionist policy as a
  whole, and summarize the results of the past research. The committee
  wisely committed this task to a scholar who believed in protection.
  The result is a most useful volume, although it throws little light on
  the problem of the causation of war.”

     + — =Ath= p22 Ja ‘17 1450w

  “Professor Grunzel’s chief field of activity seems to be in the
  Austrian ministry of commerce, as adviser and administrator; and this
  accounts for the fulness of his information upon such concrete matters
  as were just referred to. No doubt it serves also to account for the
  general character of the present performance. The book is not such as
  would come from a scholar or from any one having capacity for
  intellectual discrimination. It is frankly, almost naïvely
  protectionist; indeed, exhibits protectionism in its vulgar form. The
  verdict, alas, must be that it is full of superficialities,
  question-begging phrases, muddy reasoning. ... As an intellectual
  performance, it is negligible. But as an indication of the ways, and
  purposes of the economic politician, it is of sad and portentous
  significance.”

       — =Nation= 104:239 Mr 1 ‘17 1400w


=GUÉRARD, ALBERT LÉON.= Five masters of French romance. *$1.50 Scribner
843 17-26178

  “The present volume is, in the main, independent of politics, though
  we do not overlook the introductory and concluding chapters—‘The
  twilight of a world,’ ‘Geniuses as cannon-fodder and survival of the
  unfittest,’ ‘Regeneration,’ and so on. The writers studied are Anatole
  France, primate of French literature; Pierre Loti, exotic
  representative of French Protestantism, ‘and on the surface the least
  Protestant of all’; Paul Bourget, ‘the most skilful technician’;
  Maurice Barrès, ‘defender of tradition’; and Romain Rolland, author of
  ‘one of the world’s classics.’”—Dial

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:257 Mr ‘17

  “The criticism is sane, the argument popular, the substance
  interesting and the tone serious, while the style sparkles with a true
  French vivacity which has not had to suffer by translation. ... While
  it would be impossible to subscribe to every one of M. Guérard’s
  appreciations, he would be himself the first to disavow any such
  necessity.”

       + =Cath World= 104:694 F ‘17 350w

  “Professor Guérard is a well-read man and he has written a useful book
  of a secondary sort. His book is, as his college lectures doubtless
  are, highly instructive to those who are not already well informed in
  the field traversed. His exposition of French novels and French
  culture is discreet and balanced, and his knowledge of American life,
  its standards, and limitations, adds to his conservatism in the
  present work. There is no heat or passion here, either for men or
  works or ideas, and the level style and equal temper of the essays
  make them all the more judicious and all the less inspiring.”

     + — =Dial= 62:113 F 8 ‘17 350w

       + =Ind= 91:351 S 1 ‘17 130w

       + =N Y Times= 22:187 My 13 ‘17 920w

         =Outlook= 115:116 Ja 17 ‘17 100w

  “Peculiarly circumstanced for interpreting to Americans the personal
  and literary characteristics of modern French authors is Albert Leon
  Guérard, a Frenchman born and bred, but now an American of more than
  ten years’ standing who is professor of French in the Rice institute,
  at Houston, Tex.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 My 10 ‘17 350w

  “He wants to be on the side of the heavy angel, sociology, yet he is
  by inclination a connoisseur of literature. ... He is so anxious to
  convince Texas that French yellow-backs are worthy of serious
  attention that he is a little unscrupulous as to the kind of attention
  he secures for them. Secretly convinced that they are to be judged as
  literature, he has not the courage of his conviction, and serves them
  up as documents of social history. Unsteadiness of aim makes a bad
  book, and Mr Guérard’s is not a good one. And yet it might have been
  had not the American conscience so much perturbed the French taste.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p622 D 21 ‘16 700w

  “Useful for readers who wish short-cuts to a knowledge of these French
  writers and their novels, but are hardly equal to Miss Stephens’
  ‘French novelists of today.’”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:156 My ‘17 70w


=GUEST, EDGAR ALBERT.= Heap o’ livin’. *$1.25 Reilly & B. 811 16-21963

  “Mr Guest chooses the old familiar themes of domestic joys and
  sorrows, the ups and downs of life, the high hopes and the grievous
  disappointments common to our lot. ... This is by no means his first
  appearance in print, and to his old friends he needs no introduction.
  Let those who still have before them the pleasure of making his
  acquaintance try his quality in such poems of the present collection
  as ‘My creed,’ ‘Spring in the trenches,’ ‘The other fellow,’ ‘Father,’
  and ‘Mother.’”—Dial

  “Those who like Will Carleton and James Whitcomb Riley will not
  dislike Mr Guest.”

       + =Dial= 61:355 N 2 ‘16 200w

  “Homespun poetry, full of health and vigor.”

       + =Lit D= 53:1727 D 30 ‘16 360w

  “Inspiration may or may not lie between its covers; but love and good
  solid, spiritual fellowship for the common man are there.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 1 ‘17 250w


=GUEST, FLORA (BIGELOW) (MRS LIONEL GEORGE WILLIAM GUEST).= Cow and milk
book. il *75c (3c) Lane 636 17-12845

  A series of short, practical chapters on dairying by a woman who
  writes from personal experience in Canada. Emphasis is placed on
  cleanliness, careful inspection, etc. Among the subjects taken up are:
  Beef versus milk, The care of milk, The price of milk, Housing the
  cattle, Housing calves, To start a herd on economical lines, Advanced
  registry of cattle, How to choose a dairy cow, Stall-fed cows,
  Bedding, Watering the cattle.

  “Will be found as helpful as the more scientific guides, most of which
  have the herd owner in mind.”

       + =Ind= 90:516 Je 16 ‘17 40w

  “Mrs Lionel Guest was the daughter of the late John Bigelow. ... She
  has a successful dairy farm near Montreal which she superintends, and
  this little book offers the results of her own experience. It is
  thoroughly practical and deals with all the phases of the subject.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:167 Ap 29 ‘17 150w


=GUIMERÁ, ANGEL.= La pecadora (Daniela); a play in three acts; tr. by
Wallace Gillpatrick. (Pub. of Hispanic soc. of Am.) pa *$1.25 Putnam 862
16-22623

  For the English version of this play by the author of “Marta of the
  Lowlands,” we are indebted to Mexico City. The translator saw its
  first performance there in 1902 and, impressed with its merits,
  obtained permission from the author to translate it into English. The
  scene is in a little Spanish village. A great singer, after fifteen
  years of absence, has just returned to her childhood home. She is
  broken in health and her hopes of renewing her strength among
  well-loved scenes are frustrated by the suspicions of her old friends,
  and especially by the jealousy of the wife of her one-time sweetheart.

  “Wallace Gillpatrick has translated ‘La pecadora’ and has brought over
  into English most if not all of the hot and fluid passion of the
  original. ... For acting purposes, at least with us, some of the
  scenes, notably the first half of the first act, would have to be
  condensed, but it makes easier reading as it stands, affording the
  opportunity to come slowly and surely under the spell of the emotions
  and the sensibilities of another race.” O. M. Sayler

       + =Dial= 62:142 F 22 ‘17 120w

  “For sheer dramatic intensity the second act has been equalled by few
  plays in the past half century. ... Guimerá’s play should be
  accessible in the theater. It probably will not be. There is too much
  of the primitive and the true in it, and nothing whatever of the
  veiled sex appeal. ... As a reading play it is fascinating, and we
  fortunately have it in an admirable translation.” Frank Macdonald

       + =N Y Call= p14 Mr 11 ‘17 850w

         =Pratt= p36 O ‘17 10w

       + =R of Rs= 55:441 Ap ‘17 160w


=GULICK, LUTHER HALSEY.= Dynamic of manhood. *75c (3c) Assn. press; *$1
(4c) Doran 170 17-21790

  Dr Gulick says that human desires, or hungers, may be divided into two
  classes: (1) those that seek some benefit for one’s self; and (2)
  those that seek some benefit for others. The first are
  stomach-hungers—or Hunger; the second are heart-hungers—or Love. It is
  with these “heart-hungers” that his book is concerned. Contents: The
  two major motives; Hunger for a friend; Hunger for woman; Hunger for
  children; Hunger for God. The two editions are printed from the same
  plates, altho that issued by the Association Press is in smaller form.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:149 F ‘18

  “His conclusions coincide with and add weight to the best thought of
  the day, from the viewpoint of religion as well as from that of
  science.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 22 ‘17 100w

  “The opening chapter on unsexed persons gives the book an excessively
  physiological keynote, and does not establish the author’s thesis. Dr
  Gulick has, however, an excellent chapter on the dangers of talking
  sexual subjects so as to arouse pruriency in children and his
  presentation of the ideal of romantic marriage is sincere and
  high-principled.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 18 ‘17 150w


=GULLIVER, JULIA HENRIETTA.= Studies in democracy. *$1 (6c) Putnam 321.8
17-6232

  Three addresses by the president of Rockford college for women. In the
  first, The essence of democracy, delivered as a baccalaureate address
  in 1915, the author expresses the belief that “the impulse toward
  expansion, which underlies the present world-upheaval, is the impulse
  toward the democratizing of Europe.” The second, The twentieth-century
  search for the Holy Grail, delivered before the State federation of
  women’s clubs in Rockford, Ill., in 1915, is a study of the work of
  American women along economic, civic and legislative lines. The third,
  The efficiency of democracy, a baccalaureate address of 1916, is given
  to a comparison of the methods of a democracy and an autocracy, as
  represented by the United States and Germany, with suggestions as to
  what each can learn from the other.

  “While it contains nothing that is novel or striking, the book is
  interesting, cogent in its expression of ideas and possesses more
  literary merit than most brief discussions of its kind.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:366 My ‘17 80w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 280w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:43 Mr ‘17 10w

         =R of Rs= 55:444 Ap ‘17 20w

  “The fact that two of them are baccalaureate sermons may explain their
  limitations, for nothing seems to stultify original thought like the
  necessity of imparting it to June graduates.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 200w


=GUTHRIE, WILLIAM DAMERON.= Magna carta, and other addresses. *$1.50
(2c) Columbia univ. press 342.7 16-17474

  The address on Magna carta which opens this volume was delivered
  before the Constitutional convention of the State of New York in 1915.
  The other addresses, also prepared for special occasions, are: The
  Mayflower compact; Constitutional morality; The eleventh amendment;
  Criticism of the courts; Graduated or progressive taxation; The duty
  of citizenship; Nominating conventions; Catholic parochial schools;
  The France-America committee of New York.

  “Mr Guthrie’s addresses add very little to the discussion of the
  problems which they are concerned with, but they have their value as a
  statement of the conservative view by a learned and clear-thinking
  student and teacher of the law. The essay on ‘Magna carta’ is perhaps
  the least valuable of the entire collection. In this paper the author
  presents the older view of the content and purpose of this document, a
  view that has long since lost credit among English historians.”

         =Dial= 62:112 F 8 ‘17 250w

  “On every page there is to be found cogent argument, happy
  illustration and sound setting forth of vitally important legal and
  constitutional principles.”

       + =Educ R= 52:529 D ‘16 90w

  “Mr Guthrie’s predilection for quasi-historical arguments prevents him
  from dealing with any issue on its merits. However, in the essay on
  the income tax, he shows his moral insight and social wisdom in his
  condemnation of a graduated income tax.” M. R. Cohen

     – + =New Repub= 9:sup18 N 18 ‘16 800w

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 12 ‘17 450w


=GWATKIN, HENRY MELVILL.=[2] Church and state in England to the death of
Queen Anne; with a preface by the Rev E. W. Watson. *$5 (3c) Longmans
274.2 17-27958

  Dr Gwatkin did not live to revise his manuscript, and it is offered
  with some imperfections which the editors deemed presumptuous to
  tamper with. It is not a textbook for beginners but for “informed and
  intelligent students” who wish a survey of England’s secular and
  ecclesiastical development, in due coordination and proportion. A good
  index is provided.

  “If, in consequence of the lamented author’s death, some portions of
  the book are not quite abreast of the most recent knowledge there is
  compensation in the broadminded and comprehensive treatment of the
  weighty theme to which Prof. Gwatkin wholeheartedly addressed
  himself.”

       + =Ath= p590 N ‘17 190w

  “As a scamper through English history this posthumous work, edited by
  Dr E. W. Watson, is clever. Here and there we find shrewd remarks and
  phrases. But, whereas the modern historian strives painfully to be
  coldly neutral, Gwatkin’s bias was so vehement that he seldom troubles
  to argue, or even to be accurate.”

     – + =Sat R= 124:465 D 8 ‘17 1500w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p507 O 18 ‘17 70w

  “No references are given, but they are hardly to be expected in a
  compendium of facts which derives its interest from the personality of
  the author and the independence of his views. There is no lack of
  learning, and the book is wonderfully compressed. The character
  sketches are always interesting, and some of the generalizations on
  collateral subjects, like the remarks on English foreign policy on
  page 237, would do credit to a specialized monograph. No
  ecclesiastical historian has written with a broader outlook on the
  human side of English history.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p633 D 20 ‘17 1300w


=GWYNN, STEPHEN LUCIUS.= Mrs Humphry Ward. (Writers of the day) *60c
(3c) Holt 823 (Eng ed 18-1392)

  This study of Mrs Humphry Ward is added to a series which already
  includes books on Anatole France, Arnold Bennett, H. G. Wells, Joseph
  Conrad, Henry James, and others. It is Mrs Ward’s great and long
  continued popularity that draws critical attention to her work. As Mr
  Gwynne says, “Such a success as she has achieved and consolidated does
  not dictate to critical opinion, but it compels appraisement to be
  made.” Following the introduction, are chapters devoted to: “Robert
  Elsmere”; Novels of the general world: “Helbeck of Bannisdale” and
  “Eleanor”; Novels with a historical basis: “The case of Richard
  Meynell”; Later novels and general appreciation.

  “Mr Gwynn takes the candid and reasonable view that the popularity of
  Mrs Humphry Ward justifies a critical attention which her books hardly
  deserve on mere literary grounds.”

       + =Ath= p594 N ‘17 130w

  “While he has apparently read Mrs Ward’s novels thoroughly, he has
  little understanding of their purpose. A serious mistake was made by
  the editor of the series in inviting him to contribute the study of
  Mrs Humphry Ward.” E. F. E.

       — =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 650w

  “At times his criticism is most caustic, more than is usually found in
  sketches of this character.” D. F. K.

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ja 5 ‘18 160w

  “It is with unmixed joy that we greet this critical estimate of Mrs
  Humphry Ward, not because it is vital to have an estimate of Mrs Ward,
  but because in itself this little study is of unusual value. This
  critique is excellent from a critical point of view, and well worth
  reading for its own sake.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 440w

  “It is a remarkably spirited and readable appreciation, even though
  one may not fully agree with the conclusions.”

     + — =R of Rs= 57:217 F ‘18 80w

  “Mr Gwynn shows himself at once a sympathetic and a severe critic.”

       + =Spec= 119:529 N 10 ‘17 140w

  “Mr Gwynn has not a few shrewd things to say as to Mrs Ward’s mental
  attitude. His opening pages seem to be imbued with the highly
  unintelligent view that there must be something suspicious about a
  large circulation. This leads him to impose upon the reader at the
  outset what seems to us a wholly unfair view of his subject, and one
  which he does not prove himself able to substantiate.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p519 O 25 ‘17 470w


=GWYNN, STEPHEN LUCIUS, and TUCKWELL, GERTRUDE M.= Life of the Rt Hon
Sir Charles W. Dilke. 2v il *$10.50 Macmillan (Eng ed 17-29369)

  “It may be expected that this ‘Life of Sir Charles Dilke’ will at once
  take its place among standard works of reference, for much of it
  records in his own words, from notes made day by day, the important
  events in British and European history of the second half of the
  nineteenth century in which he took a prominent part. ... Sir Charles
  Dilke’s activities were many-sided, and his biographers have tried to
  present a picture of the complete man. Sections are allotted to his
  lifelong efforts to improve the conditions of the working classes, his
  care for the rights of native races, and his literary work and
  interests; and Mr Spenser Wilkinson contributes the chapters
  describing the active part taken by Sir Charles Dilke in impressing
  upon the nation the necessity of preparations for imperial defence. In
  all the activities of the second half of his life Sir Charles had a
  devoted co-worker in Lady Dilke, and Miss Tuckwell has provided a
  delightful picture of happy home life.”—Ath

  “The two volumes are a notable addition to the socio-political history
  of the last generation. For in the realm of social politics Dilke
  established a new tradition. In the sphere of foreign policy or
  imperial policy, on questions relating to the army and navy, he
  undoubtedly possessed an almost unrivalled knowledge; but these
  matters were, in a sense, the stock-in-trade of all politicians. In
  the field of social politics, however, he stood alone—a pioneer.”

       + =Ath= p504 O ‘17 1900w

  “The reader feels that he is a privileged spectator in the actual
  making of history, and is enabled to realize the personalities of the
  chief characters who directed the course of events.”

       + =Ath= p530 O ‘17 480w

  “His biographers appear to have magnified his strong and engaging
  qualities and minimized his failings, which is not an uncommon
  practice with biographers who are also loving friends. It is
  unfortunately to be noted that the publishers of this work found it
  necessary or desirable to give the book a fragile and mechanically
  poor binding.” H. S. K.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 O 17 ‘17 900w

  “There has been no English political biography so valuable as this
  since Lord Morley summarized an epoch in his life of Gladstone. ...
  From whatever angle this life is regarded it is a valuable supplement
  to what we already possess.” H. J. L.

       + =New Repub= 13:320 Ja 12 ‘18 2450w

       + =N Y Times= 22:532 D 2 ‘17 600w

  “It is impossible to praise too highly the industry and tact with
  which Miss Tuckwell has discharged her task of compiling what will
  certainly rank as a great political biography. ... Miss Tuckwell’s
  comments are sparing and relevant; and while she obviously writes as a
  loving disciple, there is no indiscriminate or emotional eulogy.”

       + =Sat R= 124:sup3 S 29 ‘17 1200w

  “We cannot think of Sir Charles Dilke as a possible prime
  minister. ... Miss Tuckwell, however, has unquestionably shown that
  Sir Charles Dilke was a greater force in Liberal politics before 1885
  than many people supposed.”

     + — =Spec= 119:327 S 29 ‘17 2050w

  “It is for their spiritual quite as much as for their historical value
  that these volumes will take their place in English literature. ... We
  find, with some disappointment, in the passages dealing with labour
  questions a lack of that intimacy, that private estimation of
  personalities and tendencies, which is so fascinating in other
  chapters of the book.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p451 S 20 ‘17 1950w


=GWYNNE, WALKER.=[2] Primitive worship and prayer book; rationale,
history, and doctrine of the English, Irish, Scottish, and American
books. *$2.50 Longmans 264 17-15175

  A study made timely by the work of revision of the prayer book in
  England, the United States and Canada. The writer traces the origin
  and development of Christian worship to the present form for
  English-speaking people. The second part of his work is devoted to a
  clear explanation of what the church teaches by means of the prayer
  book—by means of the formularies, traditional customs and
  interpretative scripture embodied in the prayer book. The book seeks
  an audience among students, general readers, teachers and candidates
  for Holy orders.

         =Pittsburgh= 22:698 O ‘17

  “The chapters contain the result of considerable reading in the modern
  literature on the subject, and show that the writer has the gift of
  interesting exposition.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p519 O 25 ‘17 210w




                                   H


=HAGEDORN, HERMANN.= You are the hope of the world! *50c (5½c) Macmillan
172 17-23664

  Mr Hagedorn appeals to the boys and girls of America, especially to
  those between the ages of ten and seventeen, to realize the
  responsibility laid upon their shoulders by the great war. He asks
  them to think squarely about their country, to realize that “democracy
  isn’t a success—yet,” that we are wasteful, materialistic, improvident
  and indifferent, and then to “create a tradition of alert citizenship,
  a tradition of public service.” “Your elder brothers will have to
  fight with guns. ... To you is given a work every bit as grand as
  dying for your country; and that is, living for the highest interests
  of your country! Those interests are the interests of democracy. If,
  therefore, you live for the highest interests of America, you live at
  the same time for the highest interests of the world. You are the hope
  of the world!”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:136 Ja ‘18

  “Such a book as this cannot be reviewed. It must be read if its
  mission is to be understood. And all should read it, all Americans who
  know, who fear to know, or who are anxious to know what America stands
  for in this war.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 270w

       + =Cleveland= p119 N ‘17 50w

  “Mr Hagedorn has compiled all the patriotic persuasion that he can
  cram into 100 pages or so, and from a literary point of view, his
  appeal is well worth reading. It is curious to note how he traverses
  what ‘teacher’ told the boys and girls in school about the faultless
  democracy of Uncle Sam ... and how we have always been morally,
  ethically and spiritually right, and those who opposed us wrong.” J.
  W.

         =N Y Call= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 400w

  “This appeal to patriotism is praiseworthy in Its musical simplicity
  of style, and the wholesome tenor of his arguments. ... If Mr Hagedorn
  can make this war teach the lesson of obligation and responsibility to
  our over-fed and under-worked youth, that will be one consolation left
  us.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 16 ‘17 320w


=HAGGARD, SIR HENRY RIDER.= Finished. il *$1.40 Longmans 17-24205

  “That mighty African hunter and adventurer, Allan Quatermain, who has
  so often filled the roles of hero and narrator of H. Rider Haggard’s
  romances, is once more pressed into service in ‘Finished.’ ... While
  this story is complete in itself, it forms the concluding unit of a
  trilogy, of which ‘Marie’ and ‘Child of storm’ are the preceding
  numbers ... The story embodies the last episode in the wizard Zikali’s
  mysterious career; but to give it a proper setting, Mr Haggard
  recounts the events preceding the Zulu-British war of 1879, together
  with events in the early stages of the strife. Historical facts are,
  of course, suitably cloaked in romance, and arranged to the needs of
  the plot.”—Springf’d Republican

         =A L A Bkl= 14:96 D ‘17

  “Our old friend, Allan Quatermain tells this story. And he tells it
  well, even if some of the old glamour seems to be missing.”

     + — =Ath= p527 O ‘17 60w

  “Thirty years have passed since we first heard of Allan Quatermain and
  he is as much alive today as ever. ... He is and will remain one of
  the dominant characters of English romantic fiction.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 15 ‘17 1150w

  “The council at the ‘Valley of bones’ is the most thrilling and
  picturesque part of a lively, exciting and readable narrative.”

       + =Lit D= 55:42 O 27 ‘17 200w

       + =Nation= 105:694 D 20 ‘17 150w

  “A fascinating mixture of fact and fiction.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:353 S 23 ‘17 880w

  “This latest volume, with its ominous title, ‘Finished,’ shows us two
  things clearly: One is that this particular type of romance of
  adventure, ... with its long-winded periods and utter lack of
  characterization in dialog needed a rich imagination that provided
  thrills in plenty and all the action required to sweep the reader
  along in a fascination that forgot the cumbersome writing; and the
  second thing is that Rider Haggard’s once so enviably rich and fertile
  imagination is, if not exactly finished, at least slowing down to an
  extent that necessitates a change of style to make his books
  acceptable.” G. I. Colbron

     + — =Pub W= 92:804 S 15 ‘17 570w

         =R of Rs= 56:557 N ‘17 100w

  “The author re-creates, as no other novelist can, the mysterious,
  legendary Africa of exploration days, and his stories, which are the
  outgrowth of a personal knowledge of African pioneering, convey a
  thrill and interest shared by few adventure tales of the present.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 7 ‘17 320w

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p428 S 6 ‘17 570w


=HALASI, ÖDÖN.= Belgium under the German heel. *$1.50 Funk 940.91
17-21999

  “M. Halasi, a well-known Hungarian writer, ‘succeeded in gaining the
  confidence of the German authorities and was allowed in 1916 to spend
  a few months in Belgium, being given unusual facilities for travelling
  and seeing everything within the occupied territory.’ The record of
  his experiences has been given to the anonymous translator, who has
  supplemented it by information conveyed by another Magyar, M. Ernö
  Lovass, who spent eighteen months in Belgium during the war.”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

  “It is evident that Mr Halasi’s sympathies are with the Belgium
  people. ... He sketches the present condition of Antwerp, Louvain,
  Namur, Dinant, Liège, and Malines, in the order named, and tells to
  what extent they have suffered or escaped the horrors of war. He
  closes his book with a picture of Cardinal Mercier and his efforts on
  behalf of his fellow-countrymen.”

       + =Ath= p368 Jl ‘17 350w

         =Lit D= 55:43 D 8 ‘17 160w

  “The description offers nothing sensational. The author apparently
  left Belgium before the time of the deportations; we have here nothing
  of the nature of the harrowing scenes described in M. Passelecq’s
  book.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p279 Je 14 ‘17 400w


=HALDANE, JOHN SCOTT.= Organism and environment as illustrated by the
physiology of breathing. (Mrs Hepsa Ely Silliman memorial lectures)
*$1.25 Yale univ. press 612 17-9380

  “Four lectures dealing respectively with the regulation of breathing;
  the readjustment of regulation in acclimatization and disease; the
  regulation of the environment, internal and external; organic
  regulation as the essence of life—inadequacy of mechanistic and
  vitalistic conceptions.”—Cleveland

  “Of interest to biologists, physiologists, philosophers, and
  physicians.”

       + =Cleveland= p94 Jl ‘17 50w

  “Four addresses of dynamic interest, but from two very distinct points
  of view. The first three are predominantly physiological and technical
  rather than popular. ... The fourth lecture is of superlative
  interest, and is a masterly application of the facts of physiology to
  the modern theories of life.”

       + =Nation= 104:764 Je 28 ‘17 600w

  “The special value of the book to students lies in the fact that the
  function of respiration is treated simply as one aspect of the
  activities of the organism as a whole, as a chapter in the unending
  series of adaptations, internal and external, which make up the life
  of an individual.” F. H. S.

       + =Nature= 100:241 N 29 ‘17 1050w

         =Pratt= p20 O ‘17 50w

  “From its detailed study of the processes connected with breathing
  under so many diverse conditions, the book will be of interest to
  physicians and physiologists. From its consideration of the
  conflicting theories of life from the standpoint primarily of
  breathing, it deserves a place on the shelf of the biologist and
  natural philosopher.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 29 ‘17 700w

  “Dr Haldane was invited by Yale university to give the Silliman
  lectures in 1915. At that time there were expectations about the
  duration of the war which made it natural that postponement of one
  year should be asked and granted. In 1916 it was determined to wait no
  longer, and the events of 1917 have fully justified the judgment. The
  lectures (on the ‘Physiology of breathing’) were delivered and are to
  appear in book form before long. But since they contained much that is
  technical, Dr Haldane gave also four public lectures on ‘points of
  more general interest,’ which are printed in the present volume. There
  is still enough of technicality left to make it hardish reading for
  the layman in places, but the reading is well worth while.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p364 Ag 2 ‘17 1750w


=HALE, EDWARD EVERETT, jr.=[2] Life and letters of Edward Everett Hale.
2v il ea *$5 (2c) Little 17-31921

  Not a criticism, neither an estimate of the life of Edward Everett
  Hale, but a portrayal of his personal character and achievements.
  Making use of a vast amount of material including letters, diaries,
  day books, sermons, lectures and various contributions to literature
  the son of Dr Hale has followed the progress of his father’s career
  thru its nearly ninety years. After graduation from Harvard he spent a
  few years making up his mind what he would do; then turned to the
  ministry. Middle age found him a leading clergyman; a leader and
  organizer in and out of his especial denomination, full of ideas for
  public service; a man of letters who had ahead of him long, useful
  years before the American public. The spirit of the great American has
  been immortalized in the story that won him continuous fame, “A man
  without a country.”

  “Books of this kind are as rare and as universal in their interest as
  the characters with which they deal.”

       + =Lit D= 55:44 D 8 ‘17 140w

  “A word of praise should go to Mr Hale not only for the painstaking
  care, fine discrimination and judicial mind with which he has done
  this work, but also for the excellent spirit of literary craftsmanship
  in which the whole work has been conceived and carried out. For it is
  what one might call, for lack of a better term, creative biography. He
  has used his materials as a sculptor would use clay, and out of them
  has made a clear and luminous figure which stands out from the pages,
  a real and authentic portrait of the man as he was. He has not even
  allowed his filial love to obscure or to gild or to make deceptively
  roseate what he felt to be the true lineaments of his subject or the
  true estimate of his character, his work, and his influence.”

     + + =N Y Times= 22:553 D 16 ‘17 1600w

  “We have had to wait eight years for this story of his life. It was
  worth waiting for. His son has written, or rather we should say
  edited, this life with reverencing candor—a combination rare in
  biographers.” Lyman Abbott

       + =Outlook= 118:146 Ja 23 ‘18 2800w

  “It is good to have this biography of vivid and vivifying life. It
  will bring closer to the man thousands of readers who have known his
  books and who may well wish to come, thru this biography, into more
  direct touch with his personality. The illustrations help toward this
  end.” R. R. Bowker

       + =Pub W= 93:216 Ja 19 ‘18 850w

       + =R of Rs= 57:99 Ja ‘18 210w


=HALL, BOLTON.= Thrift. *$1 (1½c) Huebsch 304 17-2049

  Education, the cooperative movement, intensive cultivation of the land
  and natural taxation are some of the subjects discussed in this book.
  The author does not write of thrift in the vein of Samuel Smiles. It
  is not a system of saving pennies that he advocates, but rather an
  organization of all one’s resources to the end that life may be
  enriched. He advocates efficiency, too, but it is not the machine-made
  efficiency of the experts.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:330 My ‘17 (Reprinted from Survey)

  “Evidence of the up-to-date business promoter sticks out on almost
  every page. His is the clever, incisive, staccato style.” H. S. K.

         =Boston Transcript= p8 F 21 ‘17 330w

         =Cleveland= p38 Mr ‘17 150w

  “It would not be just to imply that there aren’t some good things in
  this book. These good things might have been condensed into a
  pamphlet. There is chapter 13, for example, on ‘Institutional garden
  thrift.’ There is an interesting discussion of coöperatives; and
  another of taxation of land values. Mr Hall’s dissertation on
  prohibition appears to the reviewer to be partially misleading. Loose
  thinking characterizes it.” D: Rosenstein

     – + =N Y Call= p15 Je 10 ‘17 770w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:325 Ap ‘17 20w

  “The best chapter preaches ‘thrift in happiness,’ and points the way
  to love without possession and to joy that is not dependent upon
  material success.”

         =R of Rs= 55:444 Ap ‘17 110w

  “Addressed to wage earners. A sensible discussion of personal
  efficiency, waste and extravagance, investments and practical
  success.” P. B.

       + =St Louis= 15:107 Ap ‘17 20w

  “It is full of bright turns, but it is more than bright,—it is
  sensible and practical. ... The argument [about temperance], as far as
  it goes, is sound, but it doesn’t get far into the merits of the
  question. It is the shallowest part of the book.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 9 ‘17 330w

  “How to become prosperous without petrifying in the process really is
  Mr Hall’s theme; and, though we may not agree with him in every detail
  of his plan, no one can read this little book without getting benefit
  from his warm human counsel.” B. L.

       + =Survey= 37:585 F 17 ‘17 180w


=HALL, GERTRUDE.= Aurora the magnificent. il *$1.40 (1c) Century
17-10200

  Mrs Aurora Hawthorne and her friend Miss Estelle Madison drop on the
  little Anglo-American colony in Florence, determined to see and to
  spend and to enjoy. They, in particular Aurora, possess all the
  failings of the “typical” American abroad, but the Anglo-American
  colony, led by the American consul and his family, accept Aurora and
  Estelle without question. The reader can do no less, for there is
  something about them, particularly Aurora, that is compelling. The
  Fosses, the American consul’s family, are delightful, and worthy of a
  book all of themselves, but this story as it develops becomes more and
  more the story of Aurora and Gerald Fane, poor, over-wrought, artistic
  Gerald alternately moved by a desire to shake Aurora and an impulse to
  rest his tired head on her generous shoulder.

  “Published in the Century.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:353 My ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:413 Je ‘17 550w

  “The story is simple and comprehensible, the mystery untangling itself
  bit by bit, as mysteries really do. It is natural and not
  melodramatic; amusing and thoroughly readable.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 11 ‘17 330w

       + =Cath World= 105:555 Jl ‘17 80w

  “People who frankly enjoy love-mazes will like this story; it is
  written with grace and simplicity, and an honest insight into the
  thoughts and experiences with which most folk most of the time are
  engrossed. Those who yearn for light on the vaster perplexities of the
  human struggle en masse, might as well pass it by.”

         =Dial= 62:401 My 3 ‘17 230w

  “Aurora is that rare thing in popular fiction, an individual, a new
  personality.”

       + =Ind= 90:471 Je 9 ‘17 130w

  “The main thing, and the overwhelming thing, is our faith in Aurora’s
  greatness as a woman, in her adequacy for life, upon whatever terms it
  may challenge her. ... Our Aurora’s triumph over us and her Gerald is
  that we exult in her as she is.”

       + =Nation= 104:581 My 10 ‘17 470w

  “The story is a very fine and generous comedy of Americanism abroad.
  There is no denying Aurora, or the wholesome elemental womanhood, the
  ripeness of character, that underlies her outrageous bloom.” H. W.
  Boynton

       + =Nation= 105:601 N 29 ‘17 90w

  “The novel is clever and written with a good deal of charm, but the
  author has spread her slight plot over far too many pages.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:114 Ap 1 ‘17 330w

  “Reading ‘Aurora the magnificent’ is like taking a railway journey
  thru pleasant enough but rather uneventful country and all at once
  getting somewhere.” Doris Webb

       + =Pub W= 91:973 Mr 17 ‘17 550w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 60w


=HALL, GRANVILLE STANLEY.= Jesus, the Christ, in the light of
psychology. 2v *$7.50 (2c) Doubleday 232 17-8497

  A psychological study of Jesus is regarded by the author as the
  logical next step following the historical and critical research of
  recent years. The introduction says, “It is this step that the author
  attempts to take in this volume. ... He regards himself as a pioneer
  in a new domain in which he is certain to be followed by many others,
  and is convinced that the psychological Jesus Christ is the true and
  living Christ of the present and of the future. He is the spiritual
  Christ of the resurrection whom alone Paul knew and proclaimed,
  although he is here described in modern terms, and it is this that now
  chiefly matters rather than what an historical person was or did in
  Palestine, two thousand years ago.” It is Dr Hall’s hope that such a
  study may go far toward the reinterpretation of Christianity which is
  necessary if it is to remain a vital religion for the modern world.
  Volume 1 consists of chapters on: Jesus’ physical personality; Jesus
  in literature; Jesus’ character, negative views; The nativity;
  Beginnings of the supreme pedagogy. Volume 2 has chapters on:
  Messianity, sonship, and the kingdom; Jesus’ eschatology, his inner
  character, purpose, and work; Jesus’ ethics and prayer; The parables
  of Jesus; The miracles; Death and resurrection of Jesus.

  “The title is likely to mislead the general reader; the work is not a
  contribution to the study of Jesus, but to the study of genetic
  psychology. Librarians need to note this in cataloguing it. The
  student who wishes to know what Jesus said and did, or to understand
  the gospels, will find only incidental benefit here; it is not the
  psychology of Jesus which is treated, but the psychology of those who
  have reflected on Jesus. How the human mind has reacted upon this
  name; above all, how a modern encyclopedic mind, superlatively trained
  in psychological analysis, reacts upon it, is exhaustively and
  illuminatingly presented.” C. R. Bowen

 *   + – =Am J Theol= 21:612 O ‘17 3200w

  “A book for scholars and serious students.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:39 N ‘17

  “That the work will prove valuable will hardly be questioned. ... Dr
  Hall will not expect all to agree with his conclusions. We think very
  few will. But hardly any will fail to appreciate the fine spirit of
  the author; the great mass of material, gathered by the toil of many
  years; and his introducing them to a method which is sure to throw
  much light upon him whom the author calls ‘the best of all beings.’”
  F. W. C.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 My 19 ‘17 1700w

       — =Cath World= 105:245 My ‘17 1400w

       + =Cleveland= p91 Jl ‘17 60w

         =Dial= 63:70 Jl 19 ‘17 530w

  “A notable contribution to the understanding of Jesus. Probably no
  other man possesses either the equipment or the sympathy necessary to
  write this book.”

       + =Educ R= 56:173 F ‘18 60w

  “In his first chapters Dr Hall treats with notable comprehensiveness
  the conceptions of Christ’s physical appearance and character that
  have been set forth in art and literature from earliest times down to
  the immediate present, discussing and weighing each with care and
  thoroughness and judicial temper. Among the very recent books thus
  considered in which Christ or Christian teachings are the theme are,
  to mention only a very few of the large and diverse list, Kennedy’s
  ‘The servant in the house,’ Jerome’s ‘Passing of the third floor
  back,’ Maxwell’s ‘The ragged messenger,’ Moore’s ‘The Brook Kerith,’
  Selma Lagerlöf’s ‘Miracles of Anti-Christ,’ Zangwill’s ‘The next
  religion,’ while discussion at some length is given to the cult of the
  superman, which Dr Hall calls ‘The chief and most extraordinary
  literary phenomenon of our time.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:246 Jl 1 ‘17 800w

  “Whether God, Jesus Christ, and Christianity are anything more than
  psychic phenomena according to Dr Hall’s philosophy he does not make
  clear; but he makes it quite clear that he thinks this a question not
  important to answer.”

     – + =Outlook= 117:65 S 12 ‘17 330w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:437 My ‘17 40w

         =St Louis= 15:136 My ‘17 7w

  “It is unfortunate that a work containing so much learning and so
  authentic vision should be expressed in such heavy and difficult
  English. The style often obscures the ideas it seeks to express.
  Otherwise, the book is a valuable contribution from one of America’s
  leading psychologists to the pressing religious problems of the time.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 22 ‘17 600w

  “The mind of President Hall is singularly unfit for his undertaking.
  He not only is destitute of historical judgment; he does not even
  realize that his task requires it.” B. W. Bacon

       — =Yale R= n s 7:211 O ‘17 1850w


=HALL, JENNIE.= Our ancestors in Europe; ed. by J: Montgomery Gambrill
and Lida Lee Tall. il *76c Silver 940 16-14054

  “Jennie Hall’s book is made up of three main parts, viz.: The ancient
  world. The newer nations, and Beginnings of our own times. The titles
  of these parts suggest their contents. One hundred and forty pages are
  devoted to part 1, one hundred and four to part 2, and eighty-two to
  part 3. The list of illustrations is a very long one. There is also a
  considerable number of maps and plans scattered throughout the book.
  At the end of each chapter one finds a long list of questions.
  Following the last chapter is a list of important dates.” (School R)
  “The book is designed to furnish pupils in the sixth grade with a
  background for their imminent study of American history.” (Nation)

  “The author, Miss Jennie Hall, of the Parker school of Chicago, has
  shown considerable skill both in selecting the incidents and figures
  on which to dwell and in making the narrative simple without making it
  dull or childish.”

       + =Nation= 105:268 S 6 ‘17 90w

  “Generally speaking the make-up of the text is attractive, and the
  contents deal with concrete material well in the range of the
  understanding of the pupils for whom the book was written.” R M Tryon

     + — =School R= 25:684 N ‘17 180w


=HALL, JOHN LESSLIE.= English usage; studies in the history and uses of
English words and phrases. *$1.50 Scott 420.4 17-14826

  “A reference book for high school pupils or for teachers. Unlike
  similar books, it aims to give authorities on both sides, leaving the
  choice to the reader. It is a protest against the rigid rules of the
  purists in grammatical form.”—Ind

         =Ind= 91:234 Ag 11 ‘17 80w

  “As a history of opinion on the chief disputed points of usage the
  book is valuable. Its value would have been increased if instead of
  statistical lists we had more often before us the passages in their
  context.”

     – + =Nation= 105:261 S 6 ‘17 330w

  “In reading the book, one feels less confident than before as to what
  ‘good usage’ really is, and also recognizes the danger of concluding
  that a wrong use of words by a good author makes good usage.”

       + =Outlook= 116:593 Ag 15 ‘17 120w

  Reviewed by E. F. Geyer and R. L. Lyman

       + =School R= 25:607 O ‘17 120w


=HALL, MAY EMERY.= Roger Williams. il *$1.25 (3c) Pilgrim press 17-24423

  The story of Roger Williams forms a chapter in the history of the
  struggle for personal liberty in America, and the author has told it
  in a popular style that will be attractive to young people. She has
  based her account on recognized sources. There are several
  illustrations to add interest to the book.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:173 F ‘18

  “Very brightly is the story written, delightfully fascinating and
  especially attractive in the naïve manner in which she rushes into the
  forum as a special pleader in behalf of her client. For Mrs Hall is
  confessedly an ardent and enthusiastic admirer of the character of
  Williams, so ardent and so enthusiastic that she fails to discern his
  undoubted failings.” E. J. C.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p9 O 20 ‘17 850w

  “His story is always worth retelling, and Mrs Hall’s volume is, in its
  way, a public educator. Issued at smaller cost, as one believes it
  might be, it would be an excellent work for reading in the schools.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 400w


=HALLER, WILLIAM.=[2] Early life of Robert Southey, 1774-1803. (Columbia
univ. studies in English and comparative literature) *$1.50 (1½c)
Columbia univ. press 17-25840

  The first portion of the life of a poet who has no adequate detailed
  biography. It covers the first twenty-nine years of Southey’s life:
  his boyhood at school and university; his reactions to literary and
  political movements in his youth; his early associations with
  Coleridge, Lamb, Wordsworth, and others; his share in attempting to
  establish a communistic society in America; his characteristics as a
  young man, poet, and man of letters; his connection with the “lake
  school” of poetry; and his settling down in what became his permanent
  home in Keswick.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 N 17 ‘17 1000w

  “Southey played so prominent a part in the intellectual and literary
  generation that sprang from the French revolution that a competent
  study of him has long been needed. That need is now being supplied.
  The mere bulk of his writings has frightened scholars. Yet the story
  of this man is not only worth the telling; it is rich in interest
  besides.”

       + =Dial= 64:73 Ja 17 ‘18 470w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p638 D 20 ‘17 130w


=HALSEY, FRANCIS WHITING=, ed. Balfour, Viviani and Joffre; their
speeches and other public utterances in America. *$1.50 (1½c) Funk
940.91 17-24227

  Mr Halsey has collected and arranged, with descriptive matter, as
  compiled from contemporary accounts, the speeches and other public
  utterances in America of Mr Balfour, M. Viviani and Marshal Joffre,
  together with those of Italian, Belgian and Russian commissioners
  during the great war. To these he has added an account of the arrival
  of the United States warships and soldiers in England and France under
  Admiral Sims and General Pershing. The period covered is April 21 to
  July 4, 1917. The material used was first published in the
  Congressional Record and Canadian parliamentary reports, the great
  American and Canadian dailies, the London Times and Morning Post, the
  Paris Temps and La Victoire, the Literary Digest, etc. The book has no
  index.

  “Newspaper ‘clippings,’ it would seem, should hardly be given unedited
  to posterity. They could not include, in this case, much that was of
  importance concerning these visits; hence the record is neither
  complete nor accurate.” A. I. A.

     – — =Am Hist R= 23:433 Ja ‘18 350w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:53 N ‘17

  “Mr Halsey’s collection of the speeches of the commissioners is a
  useful work of reference rather than a readable book, for one must
  grant that the average of eloquence, despite the frequent ‘lift’ in M.
  Viviani’s addresses, is low, while the passages that are insignificant
  and that duplicate one another are very numerous indeed.”

     + — =Dial= 63:594 D 6 ‘17 200w

       + =Ind= 91:512 S 29 ‘17 100w

  “Even a hasty reading of the book, however, creates two impressions
  which one ventures to believe will not later be unjustified by the
  results of complete investigation. The first is that Mr Balfour is a
  master of the shrewd, weighed phrase, a genius at resolving dangerous
  difficulties and at allaying any nascent suspicions. M. Viviani, on
  the other hand, is easily the most eloquent orator that we have heard
  in America for a generation.”

       + =New Repub= 13:355 Ja 19 ‘18 200w

         =R of Rs= 57:214 F ‘18 40w

       + =Spec= 119:sup474 N 3 ‘17 130w


=HAMILTON, CLAYTON MEEKER.= Problems of the playwright. *$1.60 (2c) Holt
792 17-29336

  A companion volume to “The theory of the theatre and studies in
  stage-craft” which the writer calls “a sort of suffix” to the earlier
  work. “In this book, the kaleidoscopic field of the contemporary drama
  is considered from various points of view,—that of the critic, the
  dramatist, the stage-director, the scenic artist, the manager, and the
  theatre-going public.” Among the chapters, a good many of which have
  had magazine publication, are: Contrast in the drama; Surprise in the
  drama; The troublesome last act; Strategy and tactics; Harmony in
  presentation; High comedy in America; The George M. Cohan school of
  playwrights; Yvette Guilbert; The magic of Mr Chesterton; Criticism
  and creation in the drama; A kiss for Cinderella; Dramatic talent and
  theatrical talent; Stevenson on the stage; The plays of Lord Dunsany;
  The mood of Maeterlinck; Euripides in New York; Romance and realism in
  the drama; The new stagecraft; The non-commercial drama; A democratic
  insurrection in the theatre; What is wrong with the American drama?

         =A L A Bkl= 14:84 D ‘17

  “Mr Hamilton’s dominant characteristic as a dramatic critic is his
  desire always to go behind the specific example, often possessing only
  a fleeting interest, to the law which controlled it. ... His
  enthusiasm is cautiously controlled; and it is set free only when his
  head is convinced and his heart is touched. He does not allow his
  judgment to be unduly influenced by the vagaries of public opinion;
  and the ardent admirers of Mr Galsworthy’s plays and the uncritical
  worshippers at the shrine of Mr Shaw will probably be rudely shocked
  by the chilly analysis of the merits and demerits of these two
  favourites of the moment. ... Mr Hamilton’s criticism is consistently
  interesting because it has the support of knowledge and the savour of
  individuality.” Brander Matthews

       + =Bookm= 46:355 N ‘17 1300w

       + =Cleveland= p135 D ‘17 20w

  “He isn’t a radical in matters dramatic, and he isn’t a reactionary.
  He doesn’t champion the newer movements, nor does he evade condemning
  the older schools. The indecision is largely due to Mr Hamilton’s
  indefinite opinions, and also to his apparent refusal to trace a theme
  to his logical end. It is a good book with which to interest those who
  are not interested at all, but it will not appeal to students who have
  made some progress.” L: Gardy

     – + =N Y Call= p16 Ja 19 ‘18 340w

  “The title of Clayton Hamilton’s ‘Problems of the playwright’ is as
  unfortunate as it is alliterative, for the idea it suggests of the
  technical side of writing plays is much too narrow to cover the many
  and varied and suggestive discussions of the contemporary drama.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:578 D 30 ‘17 220w

  “For sheer power to entertain no other writer on stagecraft excels
  Clayton Hamilton.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:108 Ja ‘18 110w

  “The book deals in general observations, but they are observations
  that are pertinent because they are fortified by knowledge,
  earnestness and critical sense. They are not, however, co-ordinated
  into a study. Mr Hamilton’s book has little unity of purpose, though a
  unity of spirit does pervade it.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 1100w

  “Of interest to satisfy the reader’s curiosity as to the author’s
  opinion of certain plays or playwrights, rather than of value as
  dramatic criticism.”

     + — =Wis Lib Bul= 14:30 Ja ‘18 50w


=HAMILTON, COSMO.= Joan and the babies and I; being certain chapters
from the autobiography of John Mainwaring, the novelist. il *$1 (6c)
Little (Eng ed 16-15133)

  A story which can be summed up in a few words. An Englishman,
  suffering from nerves and over-indulgence in self analysis, spends a
  summer on the Massachusetts coast. He makes friends on the beach with
  two small children, meets their mother, falls in love with her and
  marries her. It may be that the reason for existence of the book is
  explained in this sentence, “Being male I intended to follow the law
  of nature and be the dominating factor—a law which if adopted by
  American husbands would save many thoughtless women, over-burdened
  with freedom, from making epic fools of themselves.”

  “There is a certain sentimental intimacy that some authors affect in
  relation to their characters that is more repulsive than the most
  outspoken language of your Fieldings or your Smolletts. ... Condemned
  by his own confession, he stands as an exemplar of that lack of
  reticence—or lack of frankness, it is hard to say which—that is the
  besetting sin of American literature.”

       — =Dial= 62:403 My 3 ‘17 170w

  “In spite of the domestic title of Mr Hamilton’s story, and the two
  delightfully natural children who usher in the first chapter, the
  little book is decidedly upsetting to a normally constituted mind. ...
  It contains some true sentiment and wise conclusions, but, great as
  are the faults of the present social system, it is more coherent, and
  certainly, less offensive to good taste than would be a society made
  up of Johns and Joans.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:155 Ap 15 ‘17 270w


=HAMILTON, COSMO.= Scandal. il *$1.50 (1½c) Little 17-23982

  “Beatrix Vanderdyke was extraordinary rich, extraordinarily beautiful,
  extraordinarily charming, and extraordinarily foolish. ... Her habit
  of making night time visits to the studio of a rather vulgar portrait
  painter ... resulted in scandal. Beatrix’s family threatened her with
  banishment to a cottage in Maine, and to save herself from losing a
  New York season she declared that she had been secretly married to one
  of her acquaintances. This gentleman, being a good sport, accepted the
  challenge and determined to tame the willful Beatrix for the good of
  her soul. Follows the course of events to be expected in a novel
  beginning with this kind of a situation, including the usual bedroom
  scene and ending with the happy conclusion which the reader has long
  known was sure to come. In the meanwhile there is plenty of sparring
  between the hero and the more or less unclad heroine, a lady of
  doubtful antecedents endeavors to intervene, and an obliging fog
  undertakes the rôle of deus ex machina.”—N Y Times

  “There is none of the preaching here which was to be found in ‘The
  blindness of virtue’ and which the title suggests we may be going to
  find. It is wholly an entertaining story with those touches of the
  unconventional with which Mr Hamilton knows so well how to deal.” D.
  L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 26 ‘17 550w

  “Need be taken no more seriously than the fashion-plates in a popular
  magazine. ... Those having a taste for the sort of stories usually
  told over the cigars, after the women have left the room, will enjoy
  this bit of journalese.”

     – — =Dial= 63:354 O 11 ‘17 140w

  “The novel has one character, Beatrix’s English companion, who is
  really quite like a human being.”

     – — =N Y Times= 22:349 S 16 ‘17 270w

  “Mr Hamilton fails to make his American characters convincing, but in
  the case of his heroine’s English duenna from Clapham he is more
  successful.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 23 ‘17 270w


=HAMILTON, LORD ERNEST WILLIAM.= Soul of Ulster. *$1.25 Dutton 941.5
17-14524

  “This volume by the author of ‘The first seven divisions’ is a concise
  history of Ulster as it affects the Irish question. Lord Ernest
  Hamilton shows what, in his opinion, is at the back of the demand for
  Home rule, and what would happen if it were granted.” (Ath) “The book
  falls into three parts—an historical retrospect, a survey of the
  situation at the present day, and a forecast of the future
  possibilities inherent in the Sinn Fein movement. The Ulster question
  treated historically is, in his view, bound up with the general ethics
  of colonization. ... Lord Ernest Hamilton writes as the advocate and
  champion of the Ulster Protestant colonist and the British garrison,
  and one may search his pages in vain for any indication of the
  emergence of the type of Young Ulsterman sketched in Mr St John
  Ervine’s book.” (Spec)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:53 N ‘17

         =Ath= p257 My ‘17 50w

  “Lord Ernest possesses the pen of a ready writer, and is able to
  retain the reader’s interest from cover to cover. ... He writes from
  the point of view of the Ulster Unionist, and of his sincerity there
  can be no doubt. But his judgment and better feelings appear to have
  been warped by fear, so much so that his conception of Irish character
  is too black to be credited. ... ‘The soul of Ulster’ deserves to be
  read as a strong presentation of the Unionist case. Before
  difficulties can be overcome, they must be clearly seen. Lord Ernest
  Hamilton’s book skilfully indicates the difficulties of the Ulster
  problem.”

     + — =Ath= p344 Jl ‘17 750w

  “Of that Irish and Catholic half of Ulster, Mr Hamilton knows
  nothing—or at best, only the worst! Prejudice and bigotry speak from
  his every page.”

     – — =Cath World= 105:826 S ‘17 600w

  “Of course ‘The Soul of Ulster’ is no more dispassionate than any Sinn
  Feiner argument. But it is well for us interested onlookers to see the
  other side of the perennial Irish question.”

       + =Ind= 92:260 N 3 ‘17 60w

  “They do give to the reader who has time to go through them vivid
  understanding of the difficulties to be encountered by those who would
  settle Irish affairs. ... It may be also that perusal of such books
  will do further good in this country. ... It has been to small purpose
  that some informed neither by Tories abroad nor from newspapers of
  immigrants in New York have pointed out that England has changed, that
  whatever the sins of the past she is anxious now to do honorable
  justice, that of late she has made much amends, and is prevented from
  settling the whole question partly because of circumstances pertaining
  to Irishmen and beyond her control. The slight and transient and
  narrow writings which are appearing more frequently as two Irish
  parties set forth their cause will make it, no doubt, much easier for
  people to comprehend what these difficulties are.”

       * =Nation= 105:149 Ag 9 ‘17 750w

  “It is quite likely that a good many people who do not know nearly as
  much about Ulster as Lord Ernest Hamilton evidently does will suspect
  him of prejudice. At any rate, his convictions are very definite and
  downright and they are expressed with simplicity and force.”

         =N Y Times= 22:246 Jl 1 ‘17 650w

  “The great surprise of the book is the anticipation that the
  development of Sinn Feinism, of the origin and organization of which
  Lord Ernest Hamilton gives a very inadequate and perfunctory account,
  may provide a solution of the Irish question by its refusal to
  recognize a standardized religion, and by the consequent fusion of the
  races by intermarriage. ... His curious book is not conceived or
  executed in a judicial spirit, though it contains many wholesome
  truths and much sane criticism.”

         =Spec= 118:541 My 12 ‘17 1450w

  “Ordinarily we in the United States hear only one side of the Irish
  question. The other side of the picture is vividly, yet fairly,
  presented by Ernest W. Hamilton.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 30 ‘17 350w

  “Considering the vastness of the literature on Ireland, there is a
  remarkable dearth of books interpreting the viewpoint of Ulster.
  Captain Hamilton though he does not perform this service in any
  scientific spirit and does not assume a judicial attitude which could
  not be genuine, yet gives us valuable insight into the philosophy of
  his former constituents by rewriting Irish history as they see it.”
  Bruno Lasker

     + — =Survey= 38:548 S 22 ‘17 500w

  “His book should be read by those who wish to get at a true
  comprehension of the uncompromising Ulsterman. Lord Ernest Hamilton,
  who was for some years M. P. for North Tyrone, is also the author of
  ‘The first seven divisions,’ and he writes lucidly and forcibly.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p167 Ap 5 ‘17 420w


=HAMILTON, LORD GEORGE FRANCIS.= Parliamentary reminiscences and
reflections, 1868 to 1885. *$4 Dutton (Eng ed 17-12869)

  “Lord George Hamilton was of the House of commons from 1868 to 1906.
  As son of the Duke of Abercorn, at one time lord-lieutenant of
  Ireland, he was of the governing class, a fact which accounts for the
  early age at which a place was found for him in the Disraeli
  administration of 1874-1880. He was then appointed under-secretary for
  India, with Salisbury as his chief. In 1878-1880 he was vice-president
  of the committee of council, practically minister for education. In
  the short-lived Conservative administration of 1885-1886 he was first
  lord of the admiralty. He resumed this office when the Unionist
  administration was formed in 1886, and held it until the Liberals came
  into power in 1892. From 1895 to 1903, when he retired from the
  cabinet, he was secretary for India. Only the years from 1868 to 1885
  are covered by these reminiscences.”—Am Hist R

  “For half a dozen reasons they are likely to be of service to students
  of British politics of the two decades that preceded the realignment
  of parties after 1886, when Gladstone had committed the Liberal party
  to Home rule for Ireland. ... Hamilton went to the India office in
  1874, and in detailing his work there as under-secretary, he has
  written one of the best descriptions of the work of the office, and of
  its organization, that has ever been embodied in English political
  memoirs. One other value in these reminiscences has yet to be
  mentioned. There is more than once in these pages the most sweeping
  and strongly-worded indictment that has been written or uttered of the
  Manchester school of politics by any man in the front rank of English
  political life.” E: Porritt

       + =Am Hist R= 22:855 Jl ‘17 800w

  “The author’s attitude is in strong opposition, to the ‘pacificist or
  Manchester school of politicians’; and conscientious objectors to
  military service receive small mercy at Lord George Hamilton’s hands.
  Indeed, there is a good deal of hard hitting in the book.”

         =Ath= p50 Ja ‘17 130w

  “Lord George is of the type of English public men who are dogged hard
  workers, and, no doubt, useful servants of the state, but who are
  little gifted with the pen, which they hold in a heavy hand. And these
  notes of events during twenty years of parliamentary experience
  contain little that is novel or exhilarating. ... Many personal
  characterizations occur in his pages, but few of them are penetrating
  or enlivening.”

       — =Nation= 105:44 Jl 12 ‘17 370w

  “One feature of these pages that calls for comment is that Disraeli
  appears throughout in a softened and unusually advantageous light, an
  accessible and kindly figure.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:368 S 30 ‘17 600w

         =R of Rs= 56:328 S ‘17 50w

  “This book is disappointing. ... The historical chapters are a languid
  rechauffé of events which are, perhaps, too near for historical
  treatment, but which need not be (as they are) dull. ... Of personal
  anecdotes or intimate descriptions of Lord George Hamilton’s
  colleagues—Disraeli, Northcote, Hardy, Beach, Salisbury,
  Churchill—there are none. ... The really valuable chapter in the book
  is the last but one, in which Lord George Hamilton tells us of his
  doings at the Admiralty as first lord.”

     – + =Sat R= 122:601 D 23 ‘16 850w

  “The book is just what such a book should be; it is full of a simple
  and mellow wisdom; there is not an idea in it that is not practical
  and rational; and the political ideas are reinforced or illustrated by
  a flow of anecdotes which are in themselves a delightful
  entertainment.”

       + =Spec= 118:136 F 3 ‘17 1950w

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p597 D 14 ‘16 2000w


=HAMILTON, JOSEPH GRÉGOIRE DE ROULHAC, and HAMILTON, MARY THOMPSON (MRS
J. G. DE R. HAMILTON).= Life of Robert E. Lee; for boys and girls. il
*$1.25 (2½c) Houghton 17-28464

  “This book is written with the hope that through it the life and
  character of Lee may become more real to the generation of young
  Americans growing up.” (Preface) The authors express the further hope
  that the book may, by making clearer the purity of motive of Lee and
  those he represented, hasten the day when all sectional bitterness
  shall have disappeared. Among the books on which the authors have
  drawn as sources are: Jones’s “Life and letters of General Robert E.
  Lee”; “Recollections and letters of General Lee,” by R. E. Lee, jr.;
  and Bradford’s “Lee, the American.” There are four illustrations and
  an index.

  “A wholesome book for reading by northern children.” J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:496 D ‘17 50w

       + =Cath World= 106:694 F ‘18 150w

  “Full of Civil war incidents told from an unbiased standpoint. The
  character and outlook of the Confederate leader as presented here will
  appeal to young people.”

       + =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 40w

  “Gen. Lee now belongs to the nation at large, not simply to the South,
  and the authors have written an enthusiastic as well as historically
  sound life of their hero. The book should be welcomed by young people
  all over the country, but it will be quite as interesting to many
  ‘grown-ups’ as well.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 150w


=HAMILTON, ROBERT W.= Belinda of the Red cross. il *$1.25 (2c) Sully &
Kleinteich 17-24969

  “The heroine, born in America, is the granddaughter on one side of
  French and on the other of German ancestors. ... At the beginning of
  the story she is taking a nurse’s training in a big New York hospital
  in which one of the surgeons is a famous German, resident for ten
  years in this country. As she nears the end of her course of training
  a young aviator who has had a fall and smashed one shoulder is brought
  in. ... He is Belinda’s last patient, and they find each other
  mutually interesting. After graduation she decides to join the Red
  cross service in France, and the young aviator, although neither knows
  the other’s purpose, goes over to offer his services to the French
  army. ... Belinda works in the field hospitals and the aviator crosses
  the battle lines and finally they are both caught by the enemy. ...
  The two German cousins of Belinda play an important part in the
  action.”—N Y Times

  “A thrilling war story.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:372 S 30 ‘17 280w

  “The incidents are highly improbable. The narrative may be found
  entertaining if the reader is not in a critical mood.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 7 ‘17 180w


=HAMMER, SIMON CHRISTIAN.= William the Second. *$1.50 Houghton 17-26781

  “The present volume is an English attempt at a calm, clear-cut
  analysis of the imperial psychology as disclosed by numerous speeches
  and contemporary German writings.”—R of Rs

  “Author is an Englishman and his remarks are tinged with prejudice.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:53 N ‘17

  “Mr Hammer’s picture of the Kaiser will never win him a German
  decoration, but it bears more of the earmarks of truth than those we
  are accustomed to.” C. H. P. Thurston

       + =Bookm= 46:290 N ‘17 40w

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 24 ‘17 280w

         =Outlook= 117:142 S 26 ‘17 90w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:745 N ‘17 70w

         =R of Rs= 56:439 O ‘17 100w


=HAMMOND, JOHN LAWRENCE LE BRETON, and HAMMOND, BARBARA (BRADBY) (MRS
JOHN LAWRENCE LE BRETON HAMMOND).= Town labourer, 1760-1832; the new
civilisation. *$3.50 (3c) Longmans 330.9 17-22687

  This volume is the first part of a study of the industrial revolution.
  It attempts to describe the general features of the new civilization,
  to picture the effect of the great social change which took place
  between 1780 and 1832 on the lives of the English working-class, and
  which turned them, according to the authors, into the “cannon-fodder
  of industry.” About half of the chapters deal with the material
  surroundings of “the new civilisation”—the “new town,” the conditions
  in mill, mine, and workshop, the administration of justice, the war on
  trade unions, the employment of children, etc., and the remainder
  “with the psychological conditions that resulted from them.” A table
  of dates and a list of chief authorities are appended. A second volume
  is to follow which “will give in detail the history of the work-people
  in various industries, with a full account of the disturbances known
  as the Luddite rising, and of those connected with the adventures of
  Oliver, the famous ‘agent provocateur.’” (Preface)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:75 D ‘17

  “An arresting and appalling picture.”

       + =Ath= p407 Ag ‘17 520w

  “In their feeling for class attitudes, for the rationalizations that
  accompany the economic war, for the sinister manipulation of
  government by capital, the Hammonds have an intellectual tool which
  should be in the hands of every one who tries to write of this modern
  industrial era.” Randolph Bourne

       + =Dial= 63:642 D 20 ‘17 630w

  “It is a book to be read by all who are concerned with present labour
  problems, and conditions of industrial life; for a full understanding
  of the purgatorial experiences of the working class in the critical
  years of this great social change is a key to its attitude to-day. The
  working class, like an oppressed nationality, has its memories.” M. J.

       + =Int J Ethics= 28:281 Ja ‘18 550w

  “This book is valuable as an indisputable record of facts, unpleasant
  enough to our national self-satisfaction—our besetting sin, as Matthew
  Arnold declared. It would have been more valuable but for the obvious
  political bias of its authors, who skilfully heap the blame on the
  back of the Tory party. In truth, the aristocratic Whigs and the
  Nonconformist manufacturers and tradesmen were just as much to blame
  as the Tory government for the state of labour in the pre-reform
  era. ... This is not a mere squalid story of slum misery: it is not a
  sensational ‘film,’ striking the eyes and ‘gingering’ the emotion, but
  leaving the intellect unstirred. This tale of trouble sets one on
  inquiries innumerable, psychological, spiritual, moral, economic,
  political.”

 *   + + =Sat R= 124:169 S 1 ‘17 2250w

  “The book is pleasant to read because of its literary art and mastery;
  the subject-matter is extremely gloomy. The misery admits of no
  denial, but we are not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Hammond have given
  the right values to the various causes when they enter upon
  explanations. There is something in the temper in which they write
  which strikes us as mistaken. ... But we must not express our partial
  agreement with their spirit at the expense of saying too little about
  the admirable skill and clearness with which they have presented their
  facts. They have written the best description of the conditions of the
  time that we have ever read.”

     + — =Spec= 119:60 Jl 21 ‘17 1550w

  “Though the writing of social and industrial history in England has in
  recent years been carried to a very high point of literary
  accomplishment combined with careful use of original sources and sound
  interpretation by such writers as Gilbert Slater, the Webbs, and
  others, there has been no similar publication so vividly describing
  this vital period of change. ... In almost every chapter of Mr and Mrs
  Hammond’s work are lessons of our time. The attitude towards ‘the
  poor,’ for instance, was in many respects similar to that yet taken in
  this country towards the negro. The procedure in the case of strikes
  often seems to have resembled that now frequently in vogue to meet the
  real or imagined danger of the I. W. W.” Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 39:200 N 24 ‘17 1250w

  “A companion volume to the important work which the authors published
  in 1911 on the ‘Village labourer’ during the same period.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p324 Jl 5 ‘17 50w

  “A book that should be read by all who are concerned, however
  indirectly, with what is called ‘the labour problem.’ The story of the
  Industrial revolution has been told before, but the story of the
  Social revolution which accompanied it, has never yet received
  adequate treatment. ... The authors have helped towards a better
  understanding not only of the early nineteenth century but of some of
  the most obstinate problems of today.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p339 Jl 19 ‘17 1900w


=HAMMOND, MELVIN ORMOND.= Canadian confederation and its leaders. il
*$2.50 (3½c) Doran 971 18-2512

  Canadian confederation was perfected in 1867 and has now known a half
  century of history. It has seemed a fitting time therefore “to examine
  the part played by the leaders of that great day in the various
  provinces in bringing about the union.” This has been the object of
  the author, who has brought together studies of seventeen men, among
  them Sir John A. Macdonald, Sir Oliver Mowat, William McDougall, Sir
  Alexander T. Galt, Sir George E. Cartier, Thomas D’Arcy McGee, Sir
  Charles Tupper, and others. The choice has been not wholly limited to
  those who worked for federation. Leaders of the opposition have been
  included. The book has an introductory chapter, Before confederation,
  and a closing chapter, Rounding out confederation, and ends with
  bibliography and index.

  “Our author gives a close and searching analysis of the character and
  personality of each of his subjects.” H. S. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 3 ‘17 750w

         =Ind= 92:256 N 3 ‘17 40w

       + =R of Rs= 57:104 Ja ‘18 60w


=HANCOCK, HARRIE IRVING.= Physical training for business men; basic
rules and simple exercises for gaining assured control of the physical
self. il *$1.75 (5½c) Putnam 613.7 17-25762

  The man who sits at his desk all day and feels stale at night will
  find in these pages concise instructions for livening up. The
  exercises outlined are an antidote for physical slovenliness and
  mental dulness. They are simple leg, arm, trunk and head movements
  designed to produce in a short space of time poise, alertness, power.
  Illustrations of the model performances are from photographs which
  represent the nearest approach possible to a moving picture on a
  single plate and are, in consequence, easily followed.

  “The plain, common-sense general advice and comment is of great value
  to any man or woman, and would add to efficiency.”

       + =Dial= 63:466 N 8 ‘17 100w

  “Books on physical training are either manuals which most people will
  open only on doctor’s orders, or they are made more readable with the
  help of a good deal of matter not strictly relevant. The present
  volume is of the latter variety; it may be added that its ‘padding’ is
  interesting and contains many shrewd observations. A. B. Phelan’s
  synthetic photographs may be clever, but on the whole the diagrammatic
  illustrations of the old handbooks were easier to understand.” B. L.

     + — =Survey= 39:447 Ja 19 ‘18 330w


=HANDY, AMY LITTLEFIELD.= War food. il *75c (14c) Houghton 664 17-21110

  Miss Handy describes practical and economical methods of keeping
  vegetables, fruits and meats, and urges the importance of preserving
  and storing perishable food. There is a chapter on “Canning without
  sugar.” The author hopes that the recipes will prove helpful to those
  who are trying to carry out Mr Hoover’s instructions.

  “Miss Handy is explicit in her directions, which cover, we believe, a
  very wide field of possibilities in canning.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 110w

  “A good little book to own.”

       + =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 30w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p8 Jl ‘17 20w

  “And it is a most valuable book. In the tersest and most practical
  fashion it sets forth the methods of drying, evaporating, canning,
  salting, and picking various articles, with special directions for
  each. And these methods are inexpensive.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:395 O 14 ‘17 480w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:668 O ‘17

         =Pratt= p26 O ‘17 10w

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 90w

       + =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 60w


=HANKEY, DONALD WILLIAM ALERS (STUDENT IN ARMS, pseud.).= Student in
arms. *$1.50 (4c) Dutton 940.91 E17-249

  A series of articles written at the front and first printed in the
  Spectator and the Westminster Gazette. They differ from many other
  accounts written on the firing line in that they are thoughtful and
  speculative rather than anecdotal and descriptive. The author writes
  of: “Kitchener’s army”; An experiment in democracy; Discipline and
  leadership; The religion of the inarticulate; The army and the
  universities: a study of educational values, etc. There is an
  introduction by J. St. Loe Strachey, editor of the Spectator.

  “The author was killed in action in October, 1916.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:345 My ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 3 ‘17 750w

  “His interpretation limited to some slight degree by its immaturity,
  is so sweet with the highest spiritual idealism that the reader pauses
  and marvels.”

       + =Cath World= 105:544 Jl ‘17 220w

  “The author treats the subject in a matter-of-fact way, which, by its
  very rarity, becomes effective.”

       + =Dial= 62:532 Je 14 ‘17 130w

       + =Ind= 90:381 My 26 ‘17 40w

  “Desperately sincere, openly the product of brave and unsophisticated
  youth. It is with a sort of reverence that one finishes a book so
  thoroughly imbued with the most promising of human tendencies, the
  wish to be justified on a constructive instead of on a destructive
  basis.” S. K. Toksvig

         =New Repub= 10:sup18 Ap 21 ‘17 850w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:155 O ‘16

       + =N Y Times= 22:78 Mr 4 ‘17 350w

  “Where his book is novel is in its sincere and always thoughtful
  exposition of the philosophy and religion of the trenches, and the
  changes needed for effective Christianity at home.”

       + =Sat R= 121:sup2 Je 24 ‘16 300w

       + =Spec= 116:722 Je 10 ‘16 1200w

  “A book of high spiritual idealism as well as a vivid picture of life
  in the trenches of Flanders.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 16 ‘17 200w

  “The war has given us no other book like this. It is worthy to stand
  beside Rupert Brooke’s sonnets as an expression of the spiritual
  attitude of England’s educated and gifted young men.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:123 Ap ‘17 60w


=HANKEY, DONALD WILLIAM ALERS (STUDENT IN ARMS, pseud.).= Student in
arms: second series; with an introd. by J. St Loe Strachey. il *$1.50
(5½c) Dutton 17-17623

  This collection of sketches, conversations and essays suggested by the
  war, written, with three exceptions, in France in 1916, were for the
  most part first printed in the Spectator. “The potentate,” written for
  the original volume of “A student in arms,” but not published on
  account of its likeness in subject to Barrie’s “Der tag,” is included
  here, as is also the essay entitled “Don’t worry.” In addition to
  these, the new volume contains a good deal of biographical matter: a
  sketch by Miss Hankey, the author’s sister, entitled “Something about
  ‘A student in arms’”; a fragment of autobiography entitled “My home
  and school,” and some notes on the autobiography.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:20 O ‘17

  “Like the first series, these sketches are the expression of a
  forthright idealism and give a version of the hopes, fears and beliefs
  of the men in the trenches, evidently not heightened for literary or
  humorous effect.”

       + =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 80w

       + =Dial= 63:213 S 13 ‘17 270w

  “The various papers, are not, it must be confessed, of permanent value
  as literature, but the total impression of this output by a young man
  of thirty-two, who died leading a charge which gained a few yards of
  trenches, is of the immense and irretrievable waste of war.”

     + — =Nation= 105:375 O 4 ‘17 260w

  “We can’t measure, even approximately, how much ‘good’ these works
  will do, but we unhesitatingly affirm that they are exceedingly well
  worth reading.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 19 ‘17 650w

  “The general level of the book is not so high as was that of the
  first, but, nevertheless, it contains some very good things that are
  well worth reading. Moreover, in the first volume and also in this
  Donald Hankey revealed himself a personality so interesting and so
  lovable that the opportunity this ‘Second series’ gives to make
  acquaintance with the man behind the book will be welcomed.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:295 Ag 12 ‘17 450w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:762 N ‘17 50w

  “Here we shall prefer to dwell upon the fragments of biography and
  autobiography. The first thing we have to say is that, though they are
  so slight, they paint the true ‘Student in arms,’ and show how his
  life enforced the lessons of his writing. ... No one was ever less of
  a prig.”

       + =Spec= 118:589 My 26 ‘17 1750w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 S 20 ‘17 200w

  “From Rugby he went to Woolwich; spent six years in the artillery; and
  retired with a view to entering the church after passing through
  Oxford. He never actually took orders, but shared the lives of the
  poor by making his home in Bermondsey, travelling steerage, and
  enlisting as a private when the war broke out. Thus he came to know
  the men in the ranks from within, without being so closely identified
  with them as not to recognize their idiosyncrasies as such. This may
  be one reason why his weary ‘Tommies’ are not in the least like the
  epigrammatic comedians of the picturesque writers.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p236 My 17 ‘17 880w


=HANNAY, DAVID.= Diaz. il *$2 (2c) Holt (Eng ed 17-26317)

  Two opinions exist regarding Porfirio Diaz: He was a great man and a
  beneficent ruler; he was an unmitigated tyrant and a curse to the
  country he ruled. The fact that he is included among the “Makers of
  the nineteenth century” indicates the attitude taken toward him in
  this book. The general editor, Basil Williams, says in his preface:
  “He is worthy of note by the student of the nineteenth century, since
  he brought his country to a more respectable prominence and to greater
  prosperity than it had enjoyed since its original conquest by the
  Spaniards.” The author says in conclusion: “He showed the world what
  was the utmost that his country was capable of doing in order to
  qualify itself to take its place among civilised and progressive
  states.” Mr Hannay is an English journalist and author of “The navy
  and sea-power.”

  “Mr Hannay appears to be a man of talents, candor, and good sense, and
  his book, in addition to being readable, is worth reading; but it can
  hardly be described as well-proportioned, scholarly, or sound. ... As
  might be inferred, the author’s ‘bibliography’ is meagre and his index
  inadequate.” J. H. Smith

     – + =Am Hist R= 22:890 Jl ‘17 670w

  “An authoritative, popular account.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:352 My ‘17

  “Mr Hannay’s narrative is animated, and well worth reading.”

       + =Ath= p418 Ag ‘17 130w

         =Boston Transcript= p8 F 14 ‘17 700w

  “It is somewhat tedious and involved; the subject with its fascinating
  material, could have been made more interesting reading by one whose
  writing had more of the true charm of a real biographer.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:265 My ‘17 450w

       + =Dial= 63:279 S 27 ‘17 400w

  “No dry and superficial statement of facts, but a most readable and
  enlightening story of Mexico and its people from 1854.”

       + =Ind= 90:257 My 5 ‘17 30w

         =Lit D= 54:1080 Ap 14 ‘17 400w

  “Mr Hannay has treated his interesting hero with a suitably light
  touch. He neither eulogizes nor condemns him. He presents facts of
  population and political development with the insight and sympathy of
  one who is thoroughly familiar with the winning as well as the
  repellent side of Spanish-America. Thus he frames Diaz in a Mexican
  frame, and not, as too many authors are inclined to do, in an American
  or European frame.”

       + =Nation= 105:461 O 25 ‘17 780w

  “Commendable book which might be called ‘A political history of Mexico
  in the time of Diaz.’”

       + =Outlook= 115:711 Ap 18 ‘17 100w

       + =R of Rs= 55:442 Ap ‘17 90w

         =St Louis= 15:153 My ‘17

  “How was it that Diaz, alone of all Mexican presidents, contrived to
  retain power for so long? This is the most interesting question raised
  by his career, and Mr Hannay answers it somewhat fully.”

       + =Spec= 119:190 Ag 25 ‘17 1600w

  “A most scholarly and interesting book.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Mr 4 ‘17 600w

  “But the interest of this volume at the present time is by no means
  confined to the light it throws on Mexican conditions from the narrow
  point of view of anxious investors. This brings us to the main lesson
  of the history of Mexico and of the career of Diaz for the present
  generation. It should prove a wholesome corrective to those who
  believe that the world-war is going to be followed by the millennium
  and that in that blessed word democracy there has been discovered a
  universal formula for the perfecting of the world’s order.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p327 Jl 12 ‘17 1900w


=HANSCOM, ELIZABETH DEERING=, ed. Heart of the Puritan. il *$1.50 (2½c)
Macmillan 974 17-29768

  The writer takes exception with Mr George Edward Woodberry who has
  written “The heart of the Puritan is a closed book.” Miss Hanscom,
  professor of English at Smith college, has delved into many dusty
  tomes for material that refutes Mr Woodberry’s contention. She has
  brought together here excerpts from the letters and journals of
  Puritans and grouped them under the headings; Of the coming of godly
  men to these parts; Of Boston; Of affairs domestic and personal; Of
  matrimony; Of education; Of Indians; Of trade; Of travel; Of holidays;
  Of episcopacy; Of churches; Of prophecies and warnings; Of witchcraft,
  and Cor cordium. A valuable aid to the study of history and literature
  as well as to a study of religious temper in colonial times.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:121 Ja ‘18

  “Miss Hanscom herself is something of a wit, as is shown by her
  ‘Praefatio’ and headings; we wish she had been pedant enough to have
  given the exact provenance of all her extracts. Such an appendix would
  not have marred her book, but would have added to its interest. Apart
  from that blemish, the book is excellent. It would be well if some of
  our smart youths who speak so patronizingly of the Puritans would read
  this volume of letters, and mark and inwardly digest.”

     + — =Nation= 105:697 D 20 ‘17 160w

  “With loving care and a scholar’s sense of accuracy and fitness, Miss
  Hanscom has preserved the spellings of an age that scorned the arts of
  spelling, and the abbreviations with which that age larded its written
  discourse. She has supplied chapter and page headings that pique the
  reader’s curiosity. Her preface is delightfully self-effacing and
  appreciative; in fact, the editor’s touch throughout the volume is
  gracious and good-humoredly keen. The book is meant for reading (in
  spite of the difficult spellings) and very good reading it makes. Much
  of Miss Hanscom’s book is in light vein, but it all tends to inculcate
  that tolerant and respectful view of our New England past of which we
  are much in need.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 19 ‘17 990w


=HANSHEW, THOMAS W. (CHARLOTTE MAY KINGSLEY, pseud.).= Cleek’s
government cases. il *$1.35 (1½c) Doubleday 17-5982

  “Cleek of Scotland Yard,” “The riddle of the night,” and “Cleek, the
  man of the forty faces” are stories that have preceded this. Like the
  others, this one is made up of distinct episodes in which Cleek, the
  one time crook, now a detective, displays his skill, but there is a
  thread of narrative binding the whole together. In the first chapter
  Cleek finds that his old enemies, the Apaches, are still on his track.
  He is kidnapped, and after his rescue by his friend, Narkom of
  Scotland Yard, says, “This is but the first throw of the dice, old
  friend. ... This is but the beginning; the end, who shall say?”

  “Mr Hanshew never lets the plot grow stale, and he does not leave his
  readers for even a few moments without excitement.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 28 ‘17 150w

  “Lovers of detective stories will find a good deal of entertainment in
  this new volume which tells of ‘Cleek’s government cases.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:115 Ap 1 ‘17 330w

  “The book compares unfavorably with the Cleek stories published
  heretofore.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p19 Mr 25 ‘17 130w


=HARBEN, WILLIAM NATHANIEL (WILL N., pseud.).= Triumph. il *$1.40 (1c)
Harper 17-22297

  “Two brothers form the central pivot of ‘The triumph,’ and one of them
  has made himself despised by his neighbors because he does not hold
  the conventional southern view of slavery. Andrew Merlin lives in the
  little town of Delbridge; his brother Thomas has a plantation some ten
  miles away and owns many slaves. Because of their opposing opinions,
  the brothers drift apart, and into Andrew’s immediate family trouble
  comes, for his wife and son feel keenly the ostracism to which they
  are subjected, while his daughter Anne is wholly on her father’s side.
  The war comes, Georgia is up in arms, Thomas Merlin enlists and
  becomes a Confederate brigadier general, but Andrew, because of his
  Union sympathies, and especially because he dares to free a slave who
  has been forced into his hand to pay a debt, is beset on all sides. He
  is forced to flee for his life, is overtaken by a band of Confederate
  bushwhackers, and succeeds in saving his life by a ruse. Enlisting in
  the Union army, he returns home before the end of the war, and by his
  injudicious behavior only succeeds in making himself more despised
  than ever.”—Boston Transcript

  “It cannot be said that Mr Harben’s aristocrats are as ‘convincing’ as
  his commonalty; Anne Merlin and Arthur Preston are a singularly wooden
  pair of leading juveniles.” H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 46:207 O ‘17 420w

  “Mr Harben’s pages contain more accurate knowledge of Georgia men and
  women, of the Georgia ways of living, of the Georgia passions, than
  could be revealed in a thousand formal historical narratives. ... In
  ‘The triumph’ Mr Harben goes back to the Civil war period. Many novels
  have been written about that era, but few of them have the strong
  equipoise that dominates its plot and its characters. It is a plea for
  neither side, it contains nothing of the polemic, it merely seeks to
  present life as Mr Harben found it in his native state during some
  five years of the strongest social, moral and political upheaval that
  could overwhelm a stricken people. ... Something of these Georgians is
  wholly of Georgia, but something is purely American, and something in
  them is akin to the peasant character of any country. They are
  spiritually of the same stuff as the denizens of Hardy’s Wessex, of
  Phillpotts’ Dartmoor or of Miss Jewett’s New England.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 5 ‘17 1550w

  “He really has a good point to make, and he makes it in spite of the
  commonplace melodrama to which his plot lends itself.”

     + — =Dial= 63:402 O 25 ‘17 150w

  “In withdrawing to the Civil war period, Mr Harben has abandoned that
  main asset of his and Mr Howells’s sort of realism, the thing seen and
  known at first hand. In consequence, he has not worked freely or
  spontaneously, and his product is too plainly a made affair. ... The
  ‘love-interest’ is of the most perfunctory sort.”

       — =Nation= 105:316 S 20 ‘17 460w

  “Mr Harben’s new novel contains many of the elements that make for
  real greatness.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:326 S 2 ‘17 580w


=HARDING, ALICE (MRS EDWARD HARDING).= Book of the peony. il *$6 (18c)
Lippincott 716 17-13093

  This is said to be the first book published on peony culture. It is
  made up of chapters on: An appreciation of the peony; The mythology,
  ancient and modern history of the peony; Best varieties and their
  characteristics; Extending the period of bloom; Purchasing; Where to
  plant and how to prepare the soil; Planting and cultivation;
  Propagation; The tree peony—description and history; Tree peonies:
  cultivation, propagation and best varieties; Various species of the
  peony. A valuable feature of the book is the “main list” of 125
  varieties recommended for garden culture, with supplementary lists
  based on color. Twenty of the illustrations are in color and there are
  a number of good half-tone plates in addition.

  “The format of this, the first book ever devoted to peonies alone,
  demands appreciation. Covers and typing are distinctive. While the
  many illustrations in color and in black-and-white, from photographs
  of peonies in various noted private gardens of the United States, are
  of a rare beauty vision alone can adequately disclose.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 18 ‘17 500w

         =Cleveland= p113 S ‘17 60w

  “Although a large bibliography on the peony is given, no other volume
  yet published appears to be so complete as this one. ... The two
  chapters on tree peonies present material new to many gardeners, and
  Professor H. H. Whetzel’s discussion of ‘Diseases of the peony’
  represents the latest research.”

       + =Dial= 62:486 My 31 ‘17 180w

  “Should help all flower-lovers to use it for landscape as well as
  floral value.”

       + =Lit D= 55:37 S 22 ‘17 160w

       + =N Y Times= 22:191 My 13 ‘17 130w

       + =Outlook= 115:711 Ap 18 ‘17 30w

  “There is much sound advice for the amateur in the chapter on
  Purchasing. ... All of the practical chapters of the book are valuable
  because drawn from the personal experience of the author. It is a
  beautiful book and a distinct addition to gardening literature.” M. K.
  Reely

       + =Pub W= 91:1325 Ap 21 ‘17 350w

       + =R of Rs= 55:664 Je ‘17 170w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 27 ‘17 500w


=HARDING, LOUIS ALLEN, and WILLARD, ARTHUR CUTTS.= Mechanical equipment
of buildings; a reference book for engineers and architects. 3v v 2 il
*$5 Wiley 690

  =v 2= Power plants and refrigeration.

  “The first volume of this important series was published a few months
  ago and dealt with the subject of heating and ventilation. The second
  volume, dealing exhaustively with steam plants and ice and
  refrigeration machinery, contains a large amount of theoretical and
  commercial data and discussions of their practical applications.” (N Y
  P L New Tech Bks) “In order to make the volume more complete, several
  of the chapters appearing in volume 1 have been reprinted, including
  the chapters on Heat; Water, steam and air; and Fuels and combustion.”
  (Heating and Ventilating Magazine)

  “As a reference book and a textbook for students it should be most
  valuable. The free use of manufacturers’ data adds much to the
  usefulness of this volume. ... There are several forms of boilers
  largely used by heating engineers not referred to in this volume or
  the preceding one.” D. D. Kimball

     + — =Engin News-Rec= 79:130 Jl 19 ‘17 220w

  “Special mention should be made of the chapter on ‘Chimneys for power
  boilers’ which is remarkably complete, and also the chapter on ‘Power
  plant piping.’”

       + =Heating and Ventilating Magazine= 14:51 Jl ‘17 350w

  “Unusually well illustrated with line drawings and charts. Many
  practical problems are solved step by step.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p12 Jl ‘17 70w

  “The authors will probably find that in the next printing it would be
  well to elaborate more upon the index. The excellent character of the
  book warrants doing so.”

     + — =Power= 46:238 Ag 14 ‘17 770w


=HARDING, MRS RUTH GUTHRIE.= Lark went singing, and other poems; with an
introd. by R: Burton. *$1 E. D. Brooks, Minneapolis, Minn. 811 16-24958

  “This exquisite little volume of lyrics we owe to the gardening
  sympathies of Richard Burton. Anyone who noted, some years ago, the
  little slips of song by Ruth Guthrie Harding, rooted here and there in
  a magazine page, and had the power of discernment, knew they sprung
  from the seeds of poetry. There they might have withered and died; but
  this gardener came along and cultivated an indisputable gift of beauty
  and joy.”—Boston Transcript

  “The quality is wistful, almost evanescent in the embodiment of simple
  moods and themes.” W: S. Braithwaite

       + =Bookm= 45:433 Je ‘17 210w

  “Here is the whole poetic temperament in this poet, transmitting all
  that it touches. Every first and last dream, impression, mood, makes
  you aware of loveliness and nothing but loveliness. This does not mean
  that experience does not come into the poet’s recognition of life and
  reality, but coming naked she sends it forth clothed with fabrics of
  spiritual weaving. And this is recognized all the more deeply because
  of the intense lyrical note which is one of Mrs Harding’s most
  distinctive gifts as a poet.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 23 ‘16 850w

  “A poet of true promise.” O. W. Firkins

       + =Nation= 104:523 My 3 ‘17 240w


=HARDING, SIDNEY TWITCHELL.=[2] Operation and maintenance of irrigation
systems. il *$2.50 McGraw 631 17-22587

  “This book is a compilation of the fundamental principles and
  representative methods of the operation and maintenance of irrigation
  systems in the United States. ... In the first chapter the subject of
  general maintenance is treated extensively. ... In the second chapter
  the relative serviceability, length of life and needful precautionary
  measures in the maintenance of wooden, steel and concrete structures
  are discussed. ... The third chapter is given to the problem of
  organization, outlining and suggesting appropriate plans for systems
  of varying sizes and conditions based upon experiences so far
  available. The methods of delivering irrigation water are treated
  fully in the fourth chapter. ... The measurement of irrigation water
  is treated exhaustively in the fifth chapter. ... A chapter of
  fourteen pages is devoted to rules and regulations. ... The proper
  apportionment of construction and operation charges receives thorough
  study and analysis, and the results are summarized in a concluding
  article. ... The eighth chapter is devoted to a brief discussion of
  miscellaneous phases of irrigation operations. ... At the close a
  short chapter is given to the subject of accounts.”—Engin News-Rec

  “This book is timely and useful. It presents in concentrated form a
  large range of information not elsewhere compiled and of special value
  to the student of irrigation engineering. It covers much of great
  value to the engineer or manager charged with construction, as well as
  operation and betterment, of irrigation works.” Andrew Weiss

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:938 N 15 ‘17 780w

  “Practical rather than theoretical.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:756 N ‘17 30w


=HARDY, ARTHUR SHERBURNE.= No. 13, rue du Bon Diable. il *$1.35 (3½c)
Houghton 17-28186

  Mr Hardy has written a new kind of detective story, which begins by
  telling us just how M. Janvier was murdered, and keeps us intensely
  interested in the efforts of the detectives to arrive at a solution.
  M. Janvier is an old bachelor, devoted to his niece Corinne, for whom
  he has bought a pearl necklace as a birthday present, drawing 30,000
  francs from the bank to pay for it. His murderer is finally discovered
  by M. Joly, the detective who figured in “Diane and her friends.”

  “Very well written though not as absorbing as others by this author.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:131 Ja ‘18

  “Mr Hardy’s detective story is unusual in many ways. There are
  actually human characters in it, and a swiftly woven texture of
  motives, and charming bits of color, local and otherwise. ... In the
  make-up of the volume there is displayed a feeling for the quality of
  the text that is seldom found in any but the more expensive books.”

       + =Dial= 63:597 D 6 ‘17 290w

  “Mr Hardy’s style has the old distinction; his people are clear-cut as
  cameos; his psychology is never at fault.”

     + — =Ind= 92:385 N 24 ‘17 100w

  “Mr Hardy’s new book differs from the general run of detective stories
  in that he makes no attempt to mystify or to mislead the reader, but
  takes him into his confidence at once. The idea is a good one and has
  some novelty, but one feels that it could have been developed more
  cleverly and greater ingenuity been shown in the complications.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:500 N 25 ‘17 250w

       + =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 20w

  “The reader enjoys the skill with which the author creates the proper
  atmosphere for the affair and analyzes the psychology of the
  participants.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 250w


=HARDY, OSWALD HENRY.= In Greek seas, and other poems of travel. il
*$1.25 Lane 821 17-23683

  Things of the spirit cannot be stifled even by the war, the author of
  this handful of verse asserts. The poems have been written during busy
  years and they have served as “a refuge from the engrossing calls of
  official life, and have served to keep alive memories of inspiring
  travel and of the earlier days when the great ages of Greece and Rome
  supplied a constant background of dream and happy thought.” There are
  two war poems in the group.

  “Fluent and pleasing, several of the shorter pieces, such as ‘A
  mountain pansy’ and ‘The mountain pine,’ merit attention; and some of
  the lines in the poem which gives its title to the volume, as well as
  in the verses upon ‘The tomb of Columbus in Seville cathedral,’ are
  noteworthy and impressive.”

       + =Ath= p469 S ‘17 120w

  “In the sense that the author who has travelled much records in verse
  the scenes he has visited and the impressions made upon him, the poems
  are inspired, but the inspiration is not transformed by an essentially
  poetic spirit. The results would have been much better recorded in
  prose, for they strike no emotional register.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 O 10 ‘17 300w


=HARE, CHRISTOPHER, pseud. (MRS MARIAN ANDREWS).= Great emperor: Charles
V, 1519-1558. il *$3.50 Scribner 17-18588

  “This latest biographer of the emperor whose abdication of the throne
  of Spain was forced in the middle sixteenth century has little except
  good to write of his subject. The devotion to pious ends and aims, the
  grief of his devoted family and friends, his benefactions to the
  church, are all set forth in admiration, while his military glories
  are fully recounted.”—Boston Transcript

         =Boston Transcript= p7 My 12 ‘17 250w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:91 Je ‘17

  “The story of Charles V., ... has long been recognized as full of
  fascination and wonder. Christopher Hare tells it with much historic
  detail, yet with a keen sense of its picturesque personal qualities,
  its romantic appeal. ... The book is readable and valuable for the
  ‘general public’ and for the student.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:197 My 20 ‘17 1450w

  “Whatever his bias, our author has succeeded in seeing his subject
  clearly and seeing it whole; he marshals his facts with certainty and
  skill, and his narrative runs smoothly from the first page to the
  last. In all its main features the book is a meritorious piece of
  work, the result of study and sane enthusiasm; there are excellent
  chapters on the conquest of Mexico and Peru, and the two sketch maps
  at the beginning and end of the volume are helpful. Indeed, our only
  real ground of complaint is to be found in the fact that, with all his
  accumulated knowledge, Mr Hare does not appreciate the value of
  accuracy in minor matters.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p125 Mr 15 ‘17 950w


=HARE, WALTER BEN.=[2] White Christmas, and other merry Christmas plays.
il 75c Denison 812 17-24880

  “The white Christmas” is a morality play in one act. One of the other
  plays in the collection is a dramatization of Dickens’ “Christmas
  carol.” The author says, “In these little plays I have tried to bring
  before the public the two dominant characteristics of the ideal
  Christmas season, kindness, expressed by ‘good will toward men,’ and
  the inward joy wrought by kind acts. ... Some of the plays are filled
  with the spirit of fun and jollity that is always associated with
  Christmas merrymaking; in others I have tried to emphasize the
  spiritual blessings brought to the children of men on that first white
  Christmas night.” Both children and adults take part in the plays.
  They are meant to be acted and the necessary stage directions are
  provided.

  “Mr Hare’s new volume of plays contains some amusement, but no
  superlative wit.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 D 22 ‘17 270w

  “They are ‘merry plays’ and the instructions for producing them are
  very complete.”

       + =Ind= 92:444 D 1 ‘17 30w


=HARGRAVE, JOHN.= At Suvla Bay. il *$1.50 Houghton 940.91 (Eng ed
17-1486)

  “For the most part Mr Hargrave writes of the Dardanelles campaign. He
  enlisted as a private at the beginning of the war, going from an
  outdoor life spent mainly in sketching and writing, to the hardships
  of camp life. No one reading these notes could doubt that he has seen
  and experienced all of which he writes. ... The volume is liberally
  enlivened with the author’s delightful sketches of men and
  scenes.”—Boston Transcript

  “Journalistic and conversational, told with a vivid sense of the
  picturesque, whether enjoying various types on the way or experiencing
  the horrors of the campaign itself.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:20 O ‘17

  “Mr Hargrave is the author of ‘Lonecraft’ and is a well known scout
  master, and his work as a scout has made it impossible that he should
  come to campaigning with the lack of adaptability to conditions which
  hindered so many of the enlisted men. For this reason, his first
  chapters describing the hard conditions endured by the soldiers at the
  beginning of the war have unusual weight.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 6 ‘17 320w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:57 Ap ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:426 My ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:314 S ‘17


=HARKER, MRS LIZZIE ALLEN.= Jan and her job. il *$1.50 (3c) Scribner
17-10199

  Janet Ross goes out to India at the call of her younger sister, Fay.
  Broken in health and deserted by a husband who has proved faithless to
  a trust, Fay, with two little children dependent on her, calls for
  Jan. Her death leaves the children in Jan’s charge. She takes them
  back to England and with the help of a young friend, who insists on
  acting as nursemaid in cap and apron, brings them up. In India Jan has
  met Peter Ledgard, and shortly after her departure, Peter finds that
  he needs a vacation and asks for six months’ leave. The captivating
  little nursemaid has a love affair too. The story comes to an end with
  August, 1914.

  “Appeared in the Delineator as ‘Jan her work and love.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:354 My ‘17

  “This capital story has vivacity, freshness, and humour.”

       + =Ath= p204 Ap ‘17 60w

       + =Ind= 90:594 Je 30 ‘17 60w

  “A pleasant, conventional little story, easily and simply told.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:131 Ap 8 ‘17 220w

       + =Spec= 118:464 Ap 21 ‘17 430w

  “The story does not depend on its plot. Its attractiveness lies in the
  portrayal of people who do their best to make the world a pleasanter
  place to live in. As little as possible is said about the disagreeable
  characters; the others are saved from insipidity by their foibles.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p128 Mr 15 ‘17 420w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 30w


=HARRIS, GARRARD.= Treasure of the land; how Alice won her way. il
*$1.25 (1½c) Harper 17-22298

  This story, by the author of “Joe, the book farmer,” tells how Alice
  Warren, a girl of seventeen, and her brother Henry, encouraged and
  helped by Miss Allen, the new district school teacher, transform the
  untidy farmhouse in which they live, learn to apply intelligence to
  the cultivation of the soil, and finally take prizes for their
  tomatoes and corn. Miss Allen sees that mere book study is almost
  valueless in such a farming community as that in which she is
  teaching, that the people “need first to be taught to live, to lighten
  the burdens upon themselves, and to give the women a chance.” She
  therefore interests the leading men in raising money for prizes, and
  gets government experts to organize the boy’s corn-club work and the
  tomato-club and canning work among the girls.

  “An interesting, able novel, whose author shows unusual charm in
  telling a story and pointing an extremely delicate moral while so
  doing. He evidently knows life on dreary American farm lands and
  exactly how meagre is the outlook a girl has, who is brought up amid
  their desolation. Then too, Mr Harris writes excellent dialogue. It
  does stagger our intellect somewhat to read that the heroine has grown
  on one tenth of an acre, canned and sold as well, two thousand, one
  hundred and twenty-five tomatoes, in two pound cans, realizing eight
  cents per can.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 O 10 ‘17 350w

  “Conveys a lesson of encouragement to the country girl who can see no
  prospect before her but a lifetime of drudgery, by showing what a
  scientific efficiency may accomplish when backed by earnest purpose.”

       + =Ind= 92:110 O 13 ‘17 50w

  “Mr Harris’s practical story about what a few people were able to
  achieve in one small region in the Middle West ought to be a very
  great help to all earnest men and women and baffled young people who
  are trying to improve conditions in country districts.”

         =N Y Times= 22:349 S 16 ‘17 250w


=HARRIS, H. WILSON.= President Wilson; his problems and his policy. il
*$1.75 Stokes 18-3535

  This book “has been written by [an Englishman] to interpret President
  Wilson and his measures to English readers. It was published in
  England just before our declaration of a state of war with Germany,
  but the recent American edition includes the author’s account of the
  circumstances leading to the rupture. The book is semi-biographic. The
  main facts of the President’s nativity and education, of his
  professional and literary life, are outlined by way of prelude to the
  larger purpose of exhibiting his acts and motives as a statesman. ...
  At the conclusion of his book Mr Harris reproduces the President’s
  address to the Senate on January 21, 1917, and his second
  inaugural.”—Bookm

         =A L A Bkl= 14:24 O ‘17

  “Clear and well-written.”

       + =Ath= p233 My ‘17 230w

       + =Ath= p257 My ‘17 120w

  “A very compact, well-balanced book. ... The impersonal temper in
  which with expert brevity the author has aligned and appraised the
  acts and objects of the President’s domestic policy will be gratifying
  to his readers on this side. From his ability to look at both sides of
  a question with admirable disinterestedness, Mr Harris has approached
  a more complete standard of interpreting the President than Professor
  Ford [in his volume on Woodrow Wilson] has succeeded in doing.” L. E.
  Robinson

       + =Bookm= 46:201 O ‘17 2400w

  “This volume is by an Englishman who says: ‘I cannot pretend to be
  entirely free from a certain pro-American bias, though I hope I have
  not allowed it to color what I have written.’ And it is true that the
  author is not so pro-American that he is blind to some of the blunders
  of his hero. American readers will find the book exceedingly
  interesting.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 15 ‘17 550w

  “What may appeal to most Americans as a fundamental error is his
  assumption that Mr Wilson is primarily an initiating leader. ... To
  interpret the public will seems to be his chosen ideal for a leader of
  democracy. To write successfully the life of such a man requires an
  intimate knowledge of the politics and politicians of his time. This
  knowledge Mr Harris admittedly lacks. ... Upon international questions
  Mr Wilson spoke for the people, and his purposes rather than those of
  our people may be read in those utterances. Mr Harris’s exposition of
  Wilson as president of humanity—to use the phrase of a hostile
  critic—is therefore more accurate and illuminating than his
  well-intentioned but inadequate presentation of Wilson as president of
  the United States.” D. R. Richberg

     + — =Dial= 63:342 O 11 ‘17 970w

  “He does understand and appreciate the importance of those parts of
  the country that are not on the Atlantic seaboard in the creation and
  molding of national life. He is one of the very few European writers
  upon this country who have sensed that fact. ... The book will
  interest Americans primarily because it gives so clear and
  well-defined a view, from an English standpoint, of President Wilson
  and of his political policies and leadership. But they may well find
  it worth reading also because of its unprejudiced and accurate
  presentation of American history for the last five years and its
  résumé of Mr Wilson’s life. For the author has aimed at neither eulogy
  nor interpretation. He has been satisfied to present his facts as they
  are, and to allow his readers to form their own judgment. And that is
  something that, perhaps, no American writer could do at this time.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:269 Jl 22 ‘17 1000w

         =Spec= 118:517 My 5 ‘17 1800w

  “An excellent short-order biography of Woodrow Wilson. But it is a
  book which any American of Mr Harris’s gifts and sympathies could have
  written. For the deeper illumination of ourselves, it is still
  necessary to go to Bryce.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 700w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p176 Ap 12 ‘17 780w


=HARRIS, WALTER STEWART.= Christian science and the ordinary man. *$1.50
Putnam 615.8 17-7038

  The title-page describes this work as “a discussion of some of the
  teachings of Mary Baker Eddy.” In his foreword the author adds, “This
  book, in addition to being a discussion of Christian science, is in
  part an attempt to set forth the essential true elements existing in
  some other beliefs, to the end that a starting point may be found for
  greater brotherhood among all churches and beliefs, a basis in Christ
  for the brotherhood of man.” Contents: A few preliminary thoughts; “Is
  God all?” Contradictions: Does matter have reality? Does evil have
  reality? Christ Jesus and the meaning of life; To church members.

  “A sincere attempt to view Christian science from an impartial point
  of view.”

       + =Cleveland= p53 Ap ‘17 13w

         =St Louis= 15:107 Ap ‘17

  “The writer is a Presbyterian and has never been a member of any
  Christian science organization, but he finds that much of what he has
  written is so far in agreement with the views of Mrs Eddy that he
  would fail in his obligation of acknowledgment were he to speak of the
  views he expresses as his own. This accounts for the title of the
  book, which presents a modification of Christian science set out with
  an earnestness which does not destroy the author’s sense of humour.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p432 S 6 ‘17 80w


=HART, EVANSTON IVES.= Virgil C. Hart: missionary statesman. il *$1.50
(2c) Doran 17-13400

  The subject of this biography was founder of the American and Canadian
  missions in central and west China. The foreword says, “Two great
  missions in China, of which Dr V. C. Hart was the founder, testify to
  the comprehensive insight he had of China’s needs, his recognition of
  her potential powers, and his appreciation of the forces which would
  free her from her age-long stagnation and lift her into new life and
  influence.” This story of his life is written by his son.

  “This career was not only rich in achievement, but highly picturesque.
  The biographer, his son, has been able to portray it vividly.”

       + =Bib World= 50:375 D ‘17 90w

  “A straightforward narrative of an unusually picturesque career.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:667 Je ‘17 30w


=HARTMAN, LOUIS O.= Popular aspects of oriental religions. il *$1.35
Abingdon press 290 17-13234

  “[This book] combines brief surveys of eastern faiths with brief
  descriptions of the countries where they have their strongholds. ...
  Mr Hartman makes no pretense at thoroughness, but he supplies a
  lively and informing account of the principal features of oriental
  religions and describes the scenes with which they are connected,
  including some of their sacred spots. He gives the results of his
  own observation and his reading in authoritative treatises. ... Mr
  Hartman has words of cordial admiration for the great world-religion
  of Buddha, and he also does full justice to the aggressive character
  of Mohammedanism.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Remembering the method and purpose, it should be said that the book
  is written in an attractive literary style and is splendidly
  illustrated. It should inspire the beginner to delve deeper into the
  lore of the history of religions.” A. S. W.

       + =Am J Theol= 22:158 Ja ‘18 160w

  “One of the very best chapters in the book is that on
  Zoroastrianism. ... The author is sympathetic but critical, nowhere
  condemning any of these religions in toto, but finding them inadequate
  in a progressive civilization. It is an excellent book for the busy
  person who wishes to know the teachings of these religions, and how
  these teachings work in practice.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 550w

  “Numerous well chosen illustrations add to the interest of the
  narrative.”

       + =Ind= 90:439 Je 2 ‘17 50w

  “An admirable, brief, popular statement of oriental religions. ... The
  author writes from the Christian point of view, but his spirit is not
  that of a partisan but of a lover of truth wherever it exists. It will
  be found especially valuable for those endeavoring to promote in our
  churches an intelligent interest in foreign missions.”

       + =Outlook= 116:232 Je 6 ‘17 80w

  “Mr Hartman conducts his inquiry in the proper spirit of appreciation
  of the notable ethical and spiritual characteristics of eastern
  religions, but with an eye also to their defects. He takes a
  common-sense view of the problems of missionaries.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 13 ‘17 470w


=HARVEY, ALEXANDER.= William Dean Howells; a study of the achievement of
a literary artist. *$1.50 (3½c) Huebsch 17-26889

  Mr Harvey, who has held editorial positions on the New York Herald,
  the Literary Digest, and other papers, has been associate editor of
  Current Literature since 1905, and is the author of several other
  books, tells us in this volume some of his thoughts on Mr Howells and
  a great many of his thoughts on other subjects. This is not a life of
  Howells, whom Mr Harvey calls “the greatest living artist in the field
  of fiction who uses the English language,” but a “study of his
  achievements.” The author believes that the lack of appreciation of
  Howells in this country is due to the fact that American literary
  judgments are made in England, and that England has always
  underestimated Howells. Altho Mr Harvey ranks Howells so high, he
  tells us that “Howells is at the head of the sissy school of American
  literature” which is responsible for the “renascence of insipidity in
  Anglo-Saxon literature,” that his influence upon the short story has
  been “especially mischievous,” that he is “inadequate to the male
  factor in human experience,” and that were it not for his “intimacy
  with the soul and the circumstance of woman he could not have written
  his masterpieces.” To Howells’ women, therefore, a good deal of space
  is given. The chapter on “The Howells masterpiece” deals with “The
  rise of Silas Lapham.” The type of the page headlines in the book is
  pronouncedly unusual.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:86 D ‘17

  “Nothing could be more preposterous than the attitude of Alexander
  Harvey towards literature in this volume. Nothing pleases him. He
  attacks everything. He begins with a hatred of the English, and this
  hatred is reiterated almost to his very last page. Although his theme
  is ostensibly Howells, he tells us very little about that writer. ...
  Another of Mr Harvey’s absurd objects of attack is the American book
  review. He declares that ‘a book review in an American newspaper is
  either a display of impertinence to an author or of ill-breeding to
  the public.’” E. F. E.

     – — =Boston Transcript= p7 S 5 ‘17 860w

  “An entertaining and keen, if rather pert study. The index is an
  alphabetical epitome of the author’s own philosophy rather than a key
  to the book.”

     + — =Cleveland= p120 N ‘17 90w

  “The author’s text is not so much a book as a tirade, not so much a
  tirade as a miscellany, and not so much a miscellany as the preface to
  an index. ... Mr Harvey diverts even while he irritates; and often he
  is unsurpassably acute. We ask for bread and are given—by no means a
  stone, but, let us say, a cocktail.” H. T. Follett

   — — + =Dial= 63:331 O 11 ‘17 1350w

     + — =Ind= 92:58 O 6 ‘17 70w

  “Mr Harvey selects important aspects of Mr Howells’s work for lively
  and assertive advocacy, but it is abundantly clear from the start that
  Mr Howells is his point of departure rather than his goal. ... An
  arduous task confronted Mr Harvey. ... It must be said that in being
  loosely oracular and discursive, instead of attentive, he has missed
  his hour.” Francis Hackett

   — — + =New Repub= 10:sup3 Ap 21 ‘17 2500w

  “Such sheer insanity of prejudice is rarely expressed more
  bluntly. ... To deny the eminence of British achievements is the
  giddiest height of fatuity. ... There is a unique critical index at
  the end of the book which exhausts the reader and presumably the
  subject.” Max Lustig

       — =N Y Call= p15 S 23 ‘17 1000w

  “Occasionally you meet with an experience or a thing for which some
  particular word is the one fit and perfect definition. So with this
  book. For it the word egregious seems to have been exquisitely
  invented.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:561 D 16 ‘17 880w

  “People who admire Mr Howells’s art and intelligence will have little
  patience with this farrago of impertinences and irrelevancies.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 10 ‘17 420w


=HASLETT, HARRIET HOLMES.= Dolores of the Sierra, and other one act
plays. *$1.25 Elder 812 17-20676

  A half dozen one-act plays, “bits of drama,” the author calls them,
  “fragments of the human life about you.” Some of them, “A modern
  menage” and “When love is blind” commend themselves for acting in the
  little-theater. The plays are: Dolores of the Sierra; The scoop;
  Undercurrents; A modern menage; The inventor; When love is blind.

  “The promise in the plays of Harriet Holmes Haslett is not so clearly
  spoken. Her people are types rather than individuals; her plots are
  more commonplace; her action is too often switched by mere chance; her
  thought is less mature. She has, however, dexterity in dialogue and
  has learned to manipulate stage business.” Williams Haynes

     – + =Dial= 63:587 D 6 ‘17 220w


=HASTINGS, FRANK SEYMOUR.=[2] Navigation. *75c Appleton 527 17-25796

  The purpose of this book is to provide a short course explaining the
  principal problems met with in ordinary, everyday work at sea. The
  author is instructor in navigation on the U.S.S. “Granite State.”
  Contents: Chart sailing; Mean and apparent time; Compass error; Dead
  reckoning; Soundings; Corrected altitude; Latitude; Latitude by sun on
  meridian short rule; Longitude; Latitude by sun, ex-meridian;
  Chronometer reading; Stars and planets; General remarks.

         =R of Rs= 57:102 Ja ‘18 60w


=HASTINGS, JAMES, and others=, eds.[2] Encyclopædia of religion and
ethics. v 9 Mundas-Phrygians. *$7 Scribner 203 (8-35833)

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1909; for reviews of v 8 see
  Annual for 1916.

       + =Ath= p519 O ‘17 70w

  “The work holds its place as one of the greatest and most useful
  reference works ever published. It has no competitor, as it has made a
  field for itself which is unique; and it is indispensable to the
  student of the mental and social sciences, as well as to him who is
  interested in philosophy and theology.” F. W. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 2 ‘18 1100w

       + =Lit D= 56:39 Ja 12 ‘18 360w

       + =Outlook= 118:67 Ja 9 ‘18 80w

  “This new volume maintains the standard of its predecessors.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p383 Ag 9 ‘17 230w

  “Specially attractive contributions are grouped under the titles of
  ‘Ordeal’ and ‘Nature,’ while the less important subjects, whose number
  shows the wide field covered by the work, have been entrusted to
  experts, who inspire the confidence which is half the charm which the
  ordinary reader feels as he consults a work of this character.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p554 N 15 ‘17 1150w


=HAUSER, HENRI.= Germany’s commercial grip on the world; her business
methods explained; tr. by Manfred Emanuel. *$1.65 Scribner 382 17-14560

  “The aim of this work is essentially practical. It is an objective
  study of facts, not a scientific discussion of economic principles;
  and its purpose is to promote the future prosperity of France in two
  ways, a negative and a positive. The first is to avoid the German
  grip, and the second to apply the lessons to be learnt from German
  success. ... The most important lesson of all is that German success
  has in the main been earned by solid work. ... As for those who urge
  ‘war on Germany’s trade’ with the weapons of passion and force, they
  are merely talking nonsense. Professor Hauser brings out this lesson
  better than most writers on the same subject.”—The Times [London] Lit
  Sup

         =A L A Bkl= 14:41 N ‘17

         =Ath= p96 P ‘17 60w

  “Of interest to thoughtful business men, legislators and students of
  economic and current history.”

       + =Cleveland= p92 Jl ‘17 60w

       + =N Y Times= 22:262 Jl 15 ‘17 950w

         =St Louis= 15:320 S ‘17

  “Professor Hauser’s book was written for Frenchmen, but it well
  deserves translation and the widest circulation. It is a penetrating
  and comprehensive analysis of the economic development of Germany,
  full of detailed information, acute deductions, and sound
  conclusions. ... Professor Hauser’s treatment is much more thorough
  than any hitherto attempted in English, and his conclusions are better
  informed and better balanced than the hasty and somewhat excited
  counsels pressed upon us here from various quarters.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p3 Ja 4 ‘17 900w


=HAWKES, CLARENCE.= Wood and water friends. il *$1.25 (1½c) Crowell 590
18-2698

  A selection from the author’s nature writings. Some of them are
  sketches from a childhood spent in a happy out-of-door environment,
  where the foundations were laid for the studies that have been
  continued even after the loss of eye-sight. The pictures are by
  Charles Copeland. The selections are arranged miscellaneously without
  table of contents or index.

  “Though physically blind, Mr Hawkes has a wonderful way of making
  others see. The world is far richer for his book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 5 ‘18 140w

  “The stories are varied and will interest children and young people of
  different ages—some of them speak especially to younger folk, while
  others have a wider field of interest. There is much to commend in the
  book as an introduction to nature lore.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:501 N 25 ‘17 300w

  “He has developed the happy faculty of telling nature stories that are
  sometimes true and always interesting. Even the fiction is based on
  truth.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 150w


=HAWORTH, PAUL LELAND.= On the headwaters of Peace river. il *$4
Scribner 917.11 17-28894

  “The journey which Paul Leland Haworth took ‘On the headwaters of
  Peace river,’ a thousand-mile canoe trip in the northern wilderness of
  the Canadian Rockies, is not one that would be practicable for the
  ordinary traveler. ... Outfitting at Edmonton, and making his start,
  with one man, from Hansard, on the Fraser river, he followed the
  Crooked and the Parsnip rivers to the junction of the latter with the
  Finlay to make the mighty Peace river, and then went on up the Finlay
  and well into the country of the Quadicha river, where the author
  thinks they were the first white men to penetrate. The many beautiful
  and interesting pictures are from photographs taken by the author.”—N
  Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:92 D ‘17

  “Mr Haworth’s story of his trip is peculiarly delightful because of
  his own zest in every experience and in every inspiring sight of
  mountain, glacier, forest, or noble river, and because of his faculty
  for having interesting experiences and meeting people who had had
  strange and varied contacts with life and nature and were willing to
  talk about them.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:482 N 18 ‘17 200w

  “Will appeal to men who love rifle and canoe.”

       + =Outlook= 117:387 N 7 ‘17 40w


=HAWTHORNE, HILDEGARDE.= Rambles in old college towns. il *$2.50 (3c)
Dodd 378 17-29340

  Graduates of the following colleges will take keen pleasure in a
  ramble with Miss Hawthorne to the brightest spot of bygone days:
  Jefferson’s college, William and Mary, Annapolis, Princeton, Yale,
  Brown university, Harvard, Wellesley, Bowdoin, Dartmouth, Amherst,
  Smith, Williams, Vassar, West Point and Cornell. It is of the
  buildings, the campus, the spirit and traditions of these time honored
  old places of learning that she writes. Of Cornell she quotes: “I
  don’t see but that, by and large, Cornell doesn’t pretty well express
  the whole of this country of ours, male and female, rich and poor, in
  most of its countless activities and interests. A great democratic
  university, wonderfully beautiful, magnificently situated, thoroughly
  alive. It’s tremendous!”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:76 D ‘17

  “Life past and present, scenes as they strike the eye and as they
  bring memories of bygone days, both of the colleges themselves and of
  their historic surroundings, appeal directly to Miss Hawthorne, and
  are made memorable to the reader. ... Miss Hawthorne’s description of
  Harvard is much too casual and perfunctory.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p9 O 31 ‘17 650w

  “The descriptions of buildings and of elms grow a trifle monotonous,
  if one reads the book in course, and will doubtless be the most
  enjoyable to the students and alumni of the institutions portrayed.
  There is more variety in the historical anecdotes.”

     + — =Dial= 63:534 N 22 ‘17 250w

       + =Lit D= 55:44 D 8 ‘17 110w

  “It is the sort of thing for which Miss Hawthorne has a particularly
  happy faculty. Her mood responds sensitively to every appeal of
  landscape, tradition, human sentiment, the ever-lasting joyousness of
  youth, beauty of building or of setting. Her sense of humor is always
  keen and its expression genial and sunny.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:482 N 18 ‘17 350w


=HAY, JOHN.= Complete poetical works. il *$1.50 Houghton 811

  The poems are grouped under the headings: The Pike county ballads;
  Wanderlieder; New and old; Translations; Uncollected pieces. There is
  an index of titles and one of first lines. The introduction is by the
  author’s son, Clarence Leonard Hay. The frontispiece is a portrait of
  the author.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 7 ‘17 320w

  “John Hay cannot be ranked among the greatest poets. ... But there
  have been few poets whose work maintained a more consistent average of
  excellence. He was always the competent master of his craft, alike in
  the delightful ‘Pike county ballads’ and in historical verse of
  classic dignity.”

       + =Ind= 92:63 O 6 ‘17 120w

  “Judged by exacting standards, Mr Hay’s poems are in the main more
  notable for rich thought and balanced human feeling than for the
  lyrical quality which creates the emotion of beauty. But their place
  in American letters is secure. Their importance, too, in American life
  is established because they reveal the true character of one who in
  the eyes of men was chiefly the statesman and diplomat.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 18 ‘17 290w


=HAY, MARLEY FOTHERINGHAM.= Secrets of the submarine. il *$1.25 (3c)
Dodd 623.8 17-24865

  Mr Hay has for seventeen years devoted his time exclusively to the
  design and construction of submarines. “Touching but lightly on
  historical development or the technique of hull and engine design
  (subjects already treated by Burgoyne, Stirling, Hoar, and others), he
  discusses in clear and simple language the armament of the submarine
  and the functions of its various mechanisms. ... He describes the way
  in which these craft are maintained, operated, and fought; the special
  dangers to which they and their crews are exposed, and the devices by
  which it is sought to counteract those dangers. He indicates many of
  the problems connected with them which remain to be solved and he
  analyzes Germany’s building facilities.” (Nation)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:80 D ‘17

  “Just the book for the man who is looking for a vade mecum on the
  subject. It answers practically every possible question.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 26 ‘17 300w

       + =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 30w

  “Besides giving America credit for the original invention by Holland,
  the author might also have mentioned Sperry’s gyroscopic compass,
  without which submarines could not navigate under water; Admiral
  Howell’s first employment of the gyroscope to make the torpedo run
  straight; and the heating of the air in the Whitehead torpedo to gain
  speed and distance, due to the late Walter N. Hill. The chapter on
  Submarine antidotes is not encouraging; that on the Sphere of the
  submarine is conservative, valuable, thoughtful.”

   + + — =Nation= 105:407 O 11 ‘17 300w

         =N Y Times= 22:551 D 9 ‘17 70w

  “Authentic, up-to-date information.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 50w


=HAYES, CARLTON (JOSEPH HUNTLEY).= Political and social history of
modern Europe. 2v v 1 *$2; v 2 $2.25 Macmillan 940.5 16-16141

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “In the second volume interest centres in chapters 21-25, which set
  forth the ‘Social factors in recent European history, 1871-1914,’ and
  explain the special form these factors took in England, France,
  Germany, Russia, and the minor states during that time. ... In the
  sections on France in the eighteenth century, especially during the
  revolution, are statements which need revision.” H. E. Bourne

       + =Am Hist R= 22:638 Ap ‘17 920w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:346 My ‘17

  “The first volume offers an excellent summary of three centuries
  (1500-1815) in a volume of 597 pages; while the entire second volume
  of 767 pages is devoted to the period since 1815. The theory of the
  economic interpretation of history is, of course, accepted, but it is
  used with moderation. ... Interesting features are the very full
  discussion of the eastern question and the expansion of Europe into
  Asia, Africa, and America. ... Each volume has its own index and may
  be used separately.” W. R. Smith

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:355 My ‘17 270w

       + =Ath= p52 Ja ‘17 120w

  “It is obvious that much which seems almost sacrosanct to the
  historical specialist must be omitted, but Mr Hayes has been
  singularly successful in providing a comprehensive, clear, and
  well-balanced sketch of the development of European politics and
  society during the last four centuries. There are of course slips,
  particularly in the sphere of domestic history. Mr Hayes’s maps are
  distinctly good, except that the map of the religious divisions of
  Europe in 1600 anticipates the plantation of Ulster and gives an
  Anglican hue to the lands of Tyrone and Tyrconnell. His genealogical
  and other tables are elaborate and careful, and his bibliographies
  almost too detailed; but he gives the impression, not too common, of
  having really read the books he recommends.” A. F. P.

     + — =Eng Hist R= 32:620 O ‘17 420w

       + =Ind= 89:270 F 12 ‘17 250w

  “The bibliographies are excellent, so that the student has at once a
  manual and a guide to fuller reading.” J. W. T.

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:520 My ‘17 330w

  “The central theme is the rise and evolution of the powerful middle
  class in society—the bourgeoisie—which has done more than all the
  other social classes put together to create the life and thought of
  the modern world. There are accordingly such excellent chapters as
  those on the Commercial revolution of the sixteenth century, Society
  in the eighteenth century, The industrial revolution, and Social
  factors, 1870-1914. ... It is an admirable book to ‘grind’ for
  knowledge.”

       + =Nation= 104:554 My 3 ‘17 300w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:425 My ‘17 50w

  “Makes an excellent preparation for a study Of the causes and origin
  of the war.”

       + =Pratt= p41 Ap ‘17 20w

  “Particular efforts are made to explain the various economic systems
  with respect to their merits and defects. Thus we have a description
  of humanism in the 16th century, the influence of socialism in the
  20th; the colonization of the 17th century, contrasted with the
  partitions of Africa and the expansion in the Far East of more recent
  times.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 9 ‘17 450w


=HAYES, DOREMUS ALMY.= John and his writings. (Biblical introduction
ser.) *$1.75 Meth. bk. 226 17-6228

  “An interpretation of the gospel, the letters, and the apocalypse of
  John the ‘beloved disciple,’ founded on the assumption that the John
  who wrote the five Johannine books was the Apostle John. Over against
  the tremendous logical structure of the Pauline gospel, Dr Hayes
  places the gospel according to John, as the doctrine of the church of
  the future, since it is founded and consummated in love. He regards
  the first epistle of John as better than any of the epistles of Paul.
  ‘John was a prophet; Paul an advocate. ... Paul’s epistles are
  treatises. ... John makes confident assertion of the truth,’”—R of Rs

  “His style is clear and full of human touches that are fascinating in
  their suggestiveness. ... The discussion of the authorship of the
  fourth gospel is fair; the various views and their advocates are well
  and honorably represented. ... The bibliography is excellent, not
  being overloaded with technical works in foreign languages.”

       + =Bib World= 50:49 Jl ‘17 320w

  “As an introduction to the Apostle John and his writings this volume
  is not only the latest, but the best with which we are acquainted. The
  bold and broad scholarship of the author is reënforced by a keen
  insight into human nature. ... Seldom can it be said of a work of
  introduction to a book of the Bible that it has not a dry or dull page
  in it; but just that can be said of this work.” F. W. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 24 ‘17 750w

  “The book moves with persuasive eloquence and ample historical
  perspective and will prove a great satisfaction to Bible students if
  one excepts the chapters on the Apocalypse. Dr Hayes admits this book
  to be the most baffling in the Bible and contents himself with
  presenting a mass of learned opinion on the subject, clinging to
  certain literalisms that can be easily explained.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:553 My ‘17 180w


=HAYNES, WILLIAMS, and HARRISON, JOSEPH LEROY=, comps. Camp-fire verse.
*$1.25 Duffield 811.08 17-25233

  In his introduction to this anthology Stewart Edward White points out
  the change that came over out-door poetry in the period following the
  nineties, reflecting a change in our attitude to out-door life. In
  that early verse, he says, “you are apt to have been wearing ‘Lincoln
  green’ and a feather in your cap at that. But with Kipling’s ‘Feet of
  the young men’ as a sort of dividing line, later verse takes an
  entirely new attitude and you don your khaki.” In selecting poems for
  the volume the compilers have applied a double test: “We have tried to
  exclude all poems not conceived in the true spirit of the sportsman
  and to include no poems devoid of literary merit.” (Preface)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:86 D ‘17

  “This collection is unique and interesting, and is one which any lover
  of camp life may be glad to have on his shelves. Most of the pieces
  are by authors who are, to the present reviewer at least, unknown, and
  many of them are of the undistinguished sort that serve as
  space-fillers in the better sporting magazines.”

     + — =Dial= 63:529 N 22 ‘17 280w

  “An amazingly good collection. An excellent index, both of first lines
  and of titles, with a table of contents listed according to the
  authors, makes any of the verses easy to find.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:33 Ja 27 ‘18 390w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Ja 20 ‘18 260w


=HAYWARD, FRANK HERBERT.= Professionalism and originality; with an
appendix of suggestions bearing on professional, administrative, and
educational topics. *$1.75 (3½c) Open ct. 174 17-17528

  Dr Hayward is a school inspector. “His book is a polemic against
  professionalism. The first part is a catalogue of the vices to which
  the professional spirit is heir; the second—in intention a study of
  the characteristics of the living man, i.e., of the original mind—is
  mainly concerned with the reception which such a mind finds in the
  world of professionals.” (Int J Ethics)

  “There are many shrewd and thoughtful comments upon the existing order
  of things.”

       + =Ath= p245 My ‘17 70w

  “Dr Hayward handles all professions with a fine impartiality. ... The
  book is important for its trenchant discussion of many questions which
  are sadly in need of airing.” H. J. W. H.

   + + — =Int J Ethics= 27:541 Jl ‘17 260w

  “Dr Hayward obviously knows nothing at first hand of the legal
  profession, nor, we should suppose, of the clerical and medical
  professions. He takes all his accusations of the legal profession from
  a book ‘The lawyer: our old man of the sea,’ by Mr Durran.”

       — =Sat R= 123:580 Je 23 ‘17 870w

  “A high-strung and loosely co-ordinated attack on all kinds of what we
  in America call ‘stand-pattism.’ ... He undertakes no philosophical
  discussion of that law of life which demands of men that they
  continually make the effort to strike a balance between the old and
  the new.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 12 ‘17 1450w


=HAYWARD, WILLIAM RICHART.= Money: what it is and how to use it. *80c
(3c) Houghton 332 17-11581

  The author is principal of the Curtis evening high school in New York
  city, and this work is a result of both teaching and business
  experience. Contents: What money is; Barter and primitive money;
  Development and use of metal money; The relation of money to progress;
  How money grows; How money is obtained; Keeping account of money;
  Substitutes for money; Banking; Stocks and bonds; Speculation;
  Exchange; Money for women; Travel; Buying; Receiving; Paying; Selling;
  Delivering; Collecting.

  “It would make a most desirable textbook for junior high-school
  commercial courses. The author has been head of the commercial
  department of a large city high school, has had business experience of
  several years, has conducted a private business school, and has been
  editor of the Efficiency Society Journal. He has written into this
  book the practical outcome of his experience in contact with these
  different kinds of groups.”

       + =El School J= 17:691 My ‘17 350w

         =Ind= 91:267 Ag 18 ‘17 70w

       + =N Y Times= 22:242 Je 24 ‘17 270w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:689 O ‘17 50w

       + =Pratt= p12 O ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:358 O ‘17 20w

  “Matters connected with the use and handling of money that the average
  person would need to know are briefly, simply and very clearly told.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 130w


=HAZARD, CAROLINE.= Yosemite, and other verse. *$1.25 Houghton 811
17-11824

  This book of poems by the ex-president of Wellesley college is made up
  of three parts. Part 1, California verse, contains the title piece and
  other poems of the far West, among them a sonnet sequence, “The Court
  of the ages,” written in San Francisco in 1915. The second part
  consists of miscellaneous poems, including a group of Hymns and
  anthems sung at Wellesley college. Part 3 is made up of five Studies
  in blank verse.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:439 Jl ‘17

  “The religious note, the deep undertone of faith which makes
  explainable all the sadder, darker sides of life, is always present.
  It is, we think, more characteristic than any other one element of the
  spiritual aspects of Miss Hazard’s achievement.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 16 ‘17 1050w


=HAZELTINE, ALICE ISABEL=, ed. Library work with children. *$1.50 (1½c)
Wilson, H. W. 028.5 17-26973

  Miss Hazeltine, compiler of this second volume in the series of
  “Classics of American librarianship,” is supervisor of children’s work
  in the St Louis public library. “The volume is an attempt to bring
  together in accessible form papers representing the growth and
  tendencies of forty years of library work with children. ... The
  papers chosen are primarily of historic rather than of present-day
  value, although many of them embody principles which govern the
  practice of today. ... Several different phases of children’s work are
  represented, although no attempt has been made to make the collection
  comprehensive. ... Book-selection for children has not been included
  except incidentally, since it is expected that this subject will be
  treated in another volume as part of the general subject of
  book-selection. In the same way, material on training for library work
  with children has been reserved for a volume on library training.”
  (Preface)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:110 Ja ‘18

  “Parents who wish to know what the public service is doing for the
  good of every child will find this book inspiring. And librarians will
  find much useful matter in the suggestions.”

       + =Lit D= 55:52 D 8 ‘17 130w


=HAZEN, CHARLES DOWNER.= Alsace-Lorraine under German rule. *$1.25 (2½c)
Holt 943.44 17-30886

  A brief, dependable account of the fate of Alsace-Lorraine since its
  annexation by the Germans at the end of the Franco-Prussian war. A
  preliminary chapter traces the history of mediaeval Alsace and
  Lorraine, thru later acquisition by France, the character of French
  rule for over two hundred years and the part the provinces took in the
  French revolution, the Napoleonic wars and the war which wrenched them
  from France. In the main body of the book are treated the German
  agitation for the conquest of Alsace-Lorraine, arguments for
  annexation in 1871, the remonstrance of the two provinces against it,
  the spirit and methods of German rule since annexation, and the
  resistance to the persistent attempts at Germanization. The writer is
  professor of history in Columbia university.

  “An authoritative and readable study.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:123 Ja ‘18

  “By far the best short, yet actually sufficient, presentment of a
  question that is at the very heart of the present struggle for
  liberty. In it is to be found an unanswerable brief for France and a
  stern indictment of Berlin; for Berlin is now Germany.” S. A.

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 D 5 ‘17 470w

  “This book can be depended upon as a complete popular discussion of
  one of the most important problems of the war.”

       + =Lit D= 55:44 D 8 ‘17 140w

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 29 ‘17 280w

  “Professor Hazen’s new book offers the most complete and, basically,
  the most trustworthy treatment of the theme that has yet appeared in
  English. It is, however, not difficult to find many flaws in the new
  book. Historical, in the highest sense, the book is not, as it shows
  little of the fine balance and breadth of view which the reader
  expects from the author of ‘Europe since 1815.’ Rather does it bear
  frequent evidence of the heat which forged it, of haste, and even of
  confusion.”

   + – — =Nation= 106:19 Ja 3 ‘18 450w

  “The volume has been written with the intention of encouraging
  Americans and others to continue the strife until the liberation of
  Alsace-Lorraine is achieved, though, naturally, the author simply
  assumes that result as a certainty. But while this part is doubtful,
  the historical portion of the volume has a definite value.” Joshua
  Wanhope

     – + =N Y Call= p15 N 18 ‘17 780w

  “An excellent example of point of view and purpose in the presentation
  of historical facts. The book is not, properly speaking, a history; it
  is a footnote to history and a plea for the vindication of a
  principle. ... Professor Hazen writes simply and vigorously. He has
  not the timidity that seeks refuge in qualification and academic
  jargon. ... The book is inspiriting and informing, and leaves the
  reader with a forcible impression of the finality of the issue.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:558 D 16 ‘17 550w


=HAZEN, CHARLES DOWNER.= French revolution and Napoleon, maps *$2.50
(3½c) Holt 944.04 17-8744

  The author has brought together in this volume the chapters from his
  “Modern European history” that deal with the French revolution and
  Napoleon. He has done this for the convenience of those who wish to
  review that period of history, as a means to a better understanding of
  our present crisis. The author says, “Between that period and our own
  not only are there points of interesting and suggestive comparison but
  there is also a distinct line of causation connecting the two.”

  “A book outwardly attractive and charmingly written; it will probably
  be a popular text-book and, compared with other volumes of the same
  size, it will deserve to be popular. Tested by the ideal standard of
  what such a volume might be, it is more open to criticism. As to the
  incorrect statements of facts, while there are fewer than in the
  majority of school-texts dealing with this same period, there are
  still more than necessary, more than should be allowed to stand in a
  revised edition of the work. The connection between these periods and
  the present war is not made especially clear; it is treated very
  incidentally. Perhaps it could not be made clear in a work that ends
  with the Congress of Vienna; it might have been shown in two chapters
  on the great world development that has led to a world war.” F. M.
  Fling

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:149 O ‘17 750w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 11 ‘17 250w

       + =Dial= 63:30 Je 28 ‘17 570w

       + =Educ R= 54:96 Je ‘17 40w

  “His ‘French revolution’ should really be read in conjunction with
  Carlyle’s. It is exactly the sort of clear, logical, accurate,
  historical background which these brilliant, literary pictures
  demand.”

       + =Ind= 90:516 Je 16 ‘17 240w

         =Lit D= 54:1266 Ap 28 ‘17 680w

  “The work of Professor Hazen is admirably done. He has a rare talent
  for the clear and compact statement of complex facts. His sense of
  historic perspective is just and his power of connected narrative is
  highly developed. His style is animated, simple and happily colored.
  His volume is generously illustrated with maps, mostly in color.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:127 Ap 8 ‘17 450w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:322 Ap ‘17 20w

         =Pratt= p43 O ‘17 10w

       + =R of Rs= 56:215 Ag ‘17 100w

  “The author is professor of European history in Columbia university.”

         =St Louis= 15:154 My ‘17 10w

  “Fundamentally a text-book. ... Prof Hazen leaves nothing to your
  background of information. ... But the book is splendidly and
  readably, one might almost say, ingratiatingly, thorough. ... On
  almost every one of its 350-odd pages Prof Hazen has displayed his
  truly remarkable gift for packing an immense amount of
  information—even dry information sometimes—into charming and spirited
  paragraphs.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 6 ‘17 800w


=HAZEN, CHARLES DOWNER.= Modern European history. (American historical
ser.) il $1.75 (lc) Holt 940.9 17-6333

  A history of Europe from the French revolution to the European war.
  The central theme of the book is the struggle for liberty. Two
  chapters on The old régime in Europe and The old régime in France
  furnish a background for the story that follows. The one chapter at
  the end devoted to the European war deals only with causes and the
  course of events up to the actual outbreak of the conflict. The author
  is professor of history in Columbia university and author of “Europe
  since 1815,” published in 1910. This work has been drawn on in writing
  the present book.

  “Essentially a textbook, exceptionally well written, authoritative,
  and superior to others of its class.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:395 Je ‘17

  “The book is invaluable to one who would follow the important events
  now occurring in Europe, in the light of the story of the past.” E. J.
  C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 17 ‘17 460w

  “As a textbook it will probably find its place in good high schools
  and in freshman courses in college rather than with more mature
  college classes. The first two hundred and fifty pages have been
  published separately in a library edition, without the illustrations,
  under the title, ‘French revolution and Napoleon.’”

       + =Nation= 104:554 My 3 ‘17 300w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:678 O ‘17 100w

  “Clear maps set into the chapters which they represent. Profusely
  illustrated.”

       + =School R= 25:302 Ap ‘17 20w

  “For a course in European history since the French revolution there is
  probably no better text than Hazen’s ‘Modern European history.’” R. N.
  Tryon

       + =School R= 25:686 N ‘17 170w


=HAZEN, CHARLES DOWNER, and others.= Three peace congresses of the
nineteenth century. *75c (4c) Harvard univ. press 341.1 17-13066

  The papers on the Peace congresses of Vienna, Paris, and Berlin
  contained in this volume were written for the meeting of the American
  historical association held in Cincinnati in 1916. The congress of
  Vienna is treated by Charles Downer Hazen; The congress of Paris, by
  William Roscoe Thayer; The congress of Berlin, by Robert Howard Lord.
  In addition there is a paper on Claimants to Constantinople, by
  Archibald Cary Coolidge. The problem of Constantinople is pronounced
  by Henry Eldridge Bourne in his introduction “the most important
  single question to which the war must furnish an answer.”

  “All the papers are interesting and suggestive. Mr Thayer’s alone is
  rather shabbily dressed so far as literary form is concerned and not
  exactly punctilious in its impartiality. Mr Coolidge’s article on
  ‘Claimants to Constantinople’ is a clear, well-balanced, and
  fair-minded, though appropriately brief, account of the most difficult
  question in the international relations of modern times. It deals
  mainly with the political aspects of the problem, and only
  incidentally with the economic.” C. J. H. Hayes

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:155 O ‘17 1150w

  “Deals rather with the social side than with the political results of
  the negotiations, the personality of the plenipotentiaries than with
  their achievements. For those who wish to study the history of the
  questions involved in them, a useful bibliography is provided.” E.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:626 O ‘17 90w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:88 Je ‘17 30w

         =Pratt= p13 O ‘17

  “The basis of Russia’s claims apropos of current discussion about the
  fate of Constantinople is clearly stated.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:108 Jl ‘17 30w


=HEADLAM, JAMES WYCLIFFE.= German chancellor and the outbreak of war.
*3s 6d T. Fisher Unwin, London 940.91

  “This is, in effect, a supplement to the valuable analysis of the
  diplomatic negotiations immediately preceding the entry of Great
  Britain into the war which Mr Headlam issued in 1915 under the title
  ‘The history of twelve days.’ It includes additional evidence—from
  Germany—which has since become available, and is concerned mainly with
  events which intervened between the afternoon of Wednesday, July 29,
  and midnight on July 30. It challenges the view elaborated for the
  German public by the Chancellor that the act which made war inevitable
  was the Russian mobilization, and that for this mobilization Great
  Britain was really responsible. The five chapters are reprinted (with
  alterations and additions) from the Westminster Gazette.”—The Times
  [London] Lit Sup

         =Ath= p316 Je ‘17 170w

  “In 1915 Mr Headlam completed his book, ‘The history of twelve days,’
  which is still the best thing about the immediate causes of the war.
  Now, in this brief, clearly written volume, he has contributed one of
  the best supplementary things relating to the subject. It is marred in
  some places by small errors or too positive statement of that which
  should be conjecture, but in no essential part is the reasoning
  thereby affected.”

       + =Nation= 105:369 O 4 ‘17 1250w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p191 Ap 19 ‘17 110w


=HEADLAM, JAMES WYCLIFFE.= The Issue. *$1 (3c) Houghton 940.91 17-4974

  Four of the papers in this volume are reprinted from the Nineteenth
  Century and After and one from the Westminster Gazette. They are
  discussions of the various suggestions for peace that have come from
  Germany. The author says there are three issues involved in this war,
  the Atlantic, the Eastern, and the European. It is with the third, the
  predominance of Germany in Europe, that he is concerned. This is the
  great issue with which the war began and with which it will close.
  Contents: Two manifestoes: The party leaders; The German chancellor
  and peace; Prince Bülow on peace; Central Europe. Mr Headlam is author
  of a life of Bismarck.

  “The appendixes contain translations of the manifestoes of the six
  industrial associations and of the German professors to the
  chancellor.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:425 Jl ‘17

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:362 My ‘17 90w

  “The evidence of German policy adduced would perhaps have had even
  more weight with some if it had been allowed to speak for itself than
  accompanied as it is by the expression of Mr Headlam’s strong
  feeling.”

         =Ath= p96 F ‘17 50w

         =Cleveland= p83 Je ‘17 50w

  “Certainly he is thoroughly sane.”

       + =Dial= 62:529 Je 14 ‘17 400w

  “Of special value to American readers because it states clearly and
  concisely precisely what the aims of the Allies are in the great war.”

       + =Ind= 90:380 My 26 ‘17 200w

         =J Pol Econ= 25:1059 D ‘17 280w

  Reviewed by Alvin Johnson

       + =New Repub= 10:301 Ap 7 ‘17 1250w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:57 Ap ‘17 20w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:528 Je ‘17 80w

  “Mr J. W. Headlam is one of the sanest and best-informed of our
  critics of German policy.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p619 D 21 ‘16 750w


=HEALY, WILLIAM.= Mental conflicts and misconduct. *$2.50 (3c) Little
136.7 17-9835

  Mr Healy is director of the Psychopathic institute, in connection with
  the Juvenile court of Chicago, and author of “The individual
  delinquent.” This work on the part mental conflict plays in
  delinquency is an outgrowth of his experience. In general the
  conclusions arrived at conform to those of Freud, but the author is
  not a Freudian disciple. Acknowledgment is made to the psycho-analytic
  school for enlightenment, but the author’s studies have been followed
  independently, with no intention of proving any particular theory. The
  first four chapters are of a general nature, discussing principles,
  methods, etc. The main body of the book is given up to description and
  analysis of cases, arranged under such headings as: Conflicts
  accompanied by obsessive imagery; Conflicts causing impelling ideas;
  Criminal careers developed from conflicts; Conflict arising from sex
  experiences; Conflicts arising from secret sex knowledge; Conflicts
  concerning parentage, etc.

  “His exposition of the methods of getting at the mental conflicts, as
  well as the method itself, is so simple that it obviates much of the
  occultism of some psycho-analysts. His reliance primarily upon the
  presentation of the facts of the clinic and the procedure therein
  makes it a work which must be made a starting-point by any future
  worker in the same field. It would seem that the cases could have been
  more carefully classified and presented more systematically. ... The
  genius of the author as shown in the application of this method of
  treatment to a class of juvenile offenders cannot be too highly
  commended.” T: H. Haines, M.D.

       + =Am J Soc= 23:259 S ‘17 560w

  “Valuable to the eugenist, intelligent parent, teacher or physician.
  Too pathological for the general reader.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:39 N ‘17

  “No writer in the field of criminological literature has done so much
  as has the author of this volume to analyze the causation underlying
  criminality. He has established psychological research as one of the
  most valuable approaches to the real understanding of the problem.
  This is the first rational explanation of that class of cases where
  the criminal confesses to impulses which he cannot explain. Dr Healy
  establishes the value of psycho-analysis as a genuine scientific
  procedure. The work is thoroughly scientific and of absorbing interest
  to all who are handling misconduct problems, especially those of
  adolescent children.” J. P. L.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 73:245 S ‘17 200w

  “Forms a notable contribution to the group of writings, mostly of
  American origin, distinctive of the applied psychology of crime.”

       + =Dial= 63:219 S 13 ‘17 270w

  “To one outside the Freudian fold this theory is unconvincing. The
  idea of mental conflict is ill-defined, and in the use made of the
  notion of repression lurk many doubtful assumptions. The sound
  suggestions given by the author for the treatment of these cases are
  in no way bound up with the theory of the mental mechanisms with which
  he connects them.”

     – + =Nation= 105:571 N 22 ‘17 420w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:687 O ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:171 Je ‘17 14w

  “Psychologically, the author’s case-material is of great interest, and
  the interpretation given, in terms of mental conflict, is likewise of
  considerable interest, though it does not appear to fit all the cases
  equally well.” R. S. Woodworth

     + — =Science= n s 46:461 N 9 ‘17 740w

  “A work that must prove of absorbing interest to professional people,
  pastors, judges, court and institution officers, as well as parents
  and guardians of children. Dr Healy’s findings interpret much that has
  been hitherto misunderstood by those engaged in close study of
  delinquency.”

       + =Social Service Review= 5:25 Ap ‘17 100w

  “The forty cases are very simply and attractively described and give a
  picture of an almost uniform pattern bringing home the havoc played in
  the child’s mind by the lottery of naïveté and partial information on
  sex topics to which the child is exposed. In contrast to the very
  direct and perhaps over-simple account of records, the general
  discussion goes at length into a fairly orthodox though somewhat
  simplified rendering of the Freudian system of interpretations,
  general principles, applications and methods, with many interesting
  and helpful discussions, with much evidence of sound experience.”
  Adolph Meyer

     + — =Survey= 38:421 Ag 11 ‘17 1700w


=HEARN, LAFCADIO.= Life and literature. *$3.50 Dodd 804 17-31448

  Professor John Erskine of Columbia university, editor of Hearn’s
  “Interpretations of literature” and “Appreciations of poetry,” is
  editor also of this third volume. The material which has been secured
  thru Hearn’s Japanese students is in substance the lectures delivered
  at the University of Tokyo between 1896 and 1902. The volume contains
  critical comment which confirms Hearn lovers in their impression of
  his “noble and continuous discrimination, a sustained sympathy, day
  after day, year after year, towards good books of all sorts, whether
  contemporary or long published.” Some of the chapters are: On reading
  in relation to literature; On the relation of life and character to
  literature; On composition; Literary genius (a fragment); On modern
  English criticism, and the contemporary relations of English to French
  literature; The poetry of George Meredith; Note upon Rossetti’s prose;
  Note on some French romantics; Note upon an ugly subject; Tolstoi’s
  theory of art; Note upon Tolstoi’s “Resurrection”; Some fairy
  literature; The most beautiful romance of the middle ages.

  “Hearn has rendered a service alike to the West by his interpretations
  of the Japanese mind and to the East by his suggestive study of
  western literature, and he is certain that by their extraordinary
  quality they add something of great value to the body of English
  literary criticism, and that they stand among the best examples of
  this form of writing. Their remarkable feature is that they appeal to
  and contain much of value not merely to beginners in the study of
  English literature, but also to those who are anxious to amplify their
  knowledge of it.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 1 ‘17 1200w

  “But it all serves admirably for the high-school or university student
  in our own country, as well as for the older reader who enjoys being
  freshened up by a series of capable résumés. For matured Anglo-Saxons
  the most interesting of Hearn’s chapters are the first three, which
  deal with general opinions and which state his views on the reading
  and writing of literature—particularly the one in which he gives his
  ideas of composition.” H: B. Fuller

       + =Dial= 64:68 Ja 17 ‘18 900w

  “This third volume is a bit more personal than its predecessors,
  personal in the sense of bespeaking more clearly the adventure of the
  critic’s taste. And it is of the utmost significance in the
  extraordinary quality of its interpretation, its literary criticism,
  not after the manner of the academic or journalistic schools of
  judgment, but from the point of view of the creative artist.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:531 D 2 ‘17 900w


=HEATH, ARTHUR GEORGE.= Letters. *$1.25 Longmans 940.91 17-29759

  “Arthur George Heath, fellow of New college, Oxford, and lieutenant in
  the Royal West Kent regiment, fell on the eighth of October, 1915, his
  twenty-eighth birthday. ... He applied for a commission a few days
  after the declaration of war, and threw himself whole-heartedly into
  the necessarily abhorrent task, to carry it through or to die at his
  post. Gentleness and humor, forgetfulness of self and thoughtfulness
  for those at home, with a scholar’s studiousness and earnestness, mark
  these letters from the field, mostly to the writer’s mother, now
  collected and prefaced with a warmly appreciative memoir by Professor
  Gilbert Murray, fellow Oxonian and fellow collegian of Heath’s.”—Dial

  “The book takes its place beside similar memorials of Dixon Scott and
  Rupert Brooke and scores of others, as a sad reminder of high
  possibilities of achievement sacrificed without a murmur, and also of
  high actualities of achievement in a great cause.”

       + =Dial= 63:218 S 13 ‘17 220w

  “There is something in the young Oxford don’s way of facing the facts
  of his life honestly, with no illusion of the imagination, yet with a
  steady and at times humorous desire to make the best of them,
  something in his sense of routine obligation, in the very absence of a
  transforming imagination, which makes one feel as if standing on the
  bedrock of truth.”

       + =Nation= 105:153 Ag 9 ‘17 230w


=HEATH, CARL.= Pacific settlement of international disputes. pa *1s
Headley bros., London 341 (Eng ed 17-10174)

  “This little book by a leading pacifist of advanced views is not a
  general dissertation but a collection of material; first giving in a
  concise form for reference the facts as to what has been done in the
  past by The Hague conventions, the Pacific convention, and
  International peace commissions; and then considering in order the new
  propositions for the prevention of war. The recommendations are on
  international lines. ... At the end of each chapter are references to
  a few modern books in which its subject is dealt with at greater
  length.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

         =Ath= p96 F ‘17 80w

         =Int J Ethics= 27:539 Jl ‘17 70w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p71 F 8 ‘17 150w


=HEINE, HEINRICH.= Poems. il *$2 Holt 831 17-10874

  Louis Untermeyer has selected and translated three hundred and
  twenty-five of the poems of Heinrich Heine. These include not only the
  well-known “lieder,” but selections from “Die Nord see” and some of
  the poems from “Die Harz reise” series as well. The translator says,
  “I have endeavored, by the selections chosen, to show Heine’s lyrical
  power not only at its best but at its most characteristic. For this
  reason I have included many poems usually glossed over by his
  translators; poems that are trivial enough in themselves, but
  necessary to the series that contains them, and necessary also to a
  complete appreciation of Heine’s development.” The introduction is
  important as a piece of criticism, and in his translations Mr
  Untermeyer has endeavored to retain a quality too often lost in the
  English versions, the bitter flavor that is so characteristically
  Heine.

  “The poems are translated into vivid English verse.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:50 N ‘17

  “Mr Untermeyer approaches Heine from three standpoints—that of the
  man, of the poet and of the paradox. He clears away at the very
  beginning much of the rubbish which has collected about the Heine
  tradition. His translation as a whole is not only satisfactory but
  deserves the highest praise for its faithfulness to both spirit and
  text and for the keenness with which he has made more clear the
  complex genius of Heine.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 1050w

  “Heine’s simplicity is a trap for the unwary. That simplicity is the
  art that conceals art and can be reproduced only by one who is a poet
  in his own right, responsive to the same medium and claiming the same
  racial background. It took a Jewish poet to translate the Jewish
  poet. ... Comment on the volume would be inadequate without reference
  to Mr Untermeyer’s scholarly (not academic) preface which, except for
  its failure to praise the translator, constitutes the best possible
  review of the work.” B: W. Huebsch

       + =Dial= 62:399 My 3 ‘17 930w

  “The book will give to those who do not read German a real knowledge
  of a great poet; it will please those who do read German because it is
  a true and faithful rendering; and it will take its place as something
  more than a translation, because, thanks to the introduction and the
  choice and arrangement of the poems it is an interpretative and
  critical essay.”

       + =Ind= 90:554 Je 23 ‘17 270w

  “The result of Mr Untermeyer’s labor is not merely passing good, it is
  surpassingly excellent. His knowledge of German—as is evident from the
  beginning and becomes more so as one studies his translations—is
  intimate and fundamentally sound. His greatest attainment is that he
  has caught the spirit of Heine.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 S 22 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Untermeyer has unquestionably brought the reader who has no German
  closer to the source. If he has not quite succeeded in translating
  Heine the poet, he has succeeded very often in translating Heine the
  wit. ... Nevertheless, Mr Untermeyer’s volume is a little of a
  disappointment. One expected something more than a ‘libretto’ from a
  poet who takes his calling so seriously. It was really Heine the
  artist that we wanted.” Paul Rosenfeld

     + — =New Repub= 11:225 Je 23 ‘17 1000w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:78 My ‘17 30w

  Reviewed by Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p12 Ap 22 ‘17 230w

  “His preface is especially illuminating. ... The defects of the book
  are small indeed, compared with its qualities. For the first time the
  English reader is furnished with a genuinely representative selection
  from Heine’s poems, so translated as to give not the apparent or
  superficial meaning, but their real significance.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:223 Je 10 ‘17 680w

  “It is too much to say that these translations keep Heine’s music.
  They do, however, fairly—at times brilliantly—present his poetic work
  and are a valuable addition to any library. The preface is unusually
  good, well worth publishing alone as a critical and interpretative
  essay on the great German Jew, whose words are immortal.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:660 Je ‘17 80w

         =St Louis= 15:183 Je ‘17

  “Except for its irony, it gives but little hope for any great revival
  of interest in Heine’s poetry. Heine was above all things musical, but
  this translation, while ingenious and true to the meaning of the
  original, does not make him remarkably sweet to the ear or appealing
  to one’s sense of rhythm in words.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 950w


Helen of Four Gates. *$1.50 (2c) Dutton 17-16318

  An anonymous story of the north country moors, by an Englishwoman said
  to have worked in a cotton mill for nearly the whole of the twenty
  years since she was eleven. Her grip upon the elemental in men and
  women, her uncanny imagination, her power of picturing cruelty and
  horror, and love unashamed, remind the reader of Eden Phillpotts, of
  Emily Brontë and of Edgar Allan Poe. An old and well-to-do farmer,
  Abel Mason, has never forgiven the sweetheart of his youth for casting
  him aside because of insanity in his family. After she and her husband
  have died, Abel adopts their daughter, Helen, whom he passes off as
  his own child in order to sate his longing for revenge upon her. When
  Helen falls in love with Martin, a lad working on the farm, Abel tells
  him that Helen carries the taint of insanity in her blood. Martin
  refuses either to marry Helen or to leave her, and for years the old
  man watches their sufferings with delight and invents new tortures
  until, by cunning schemes, he drives Martin from the farm and forces
  Helen into marriage with a tramp. The happy ending, though unexpected,
  is convincing, and does not leave the reader with a sense of
  anti-climax.

     – + =Ath= p362 Jl ‘17 110w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:94 S ‘17 450w

  “‘Helen of Four Gates’ is an unusual novel. Its atmosphere is dark and
  morbid and its characters are nearly all abnormal. Nevertheless, the
  author has created in it a very real atmosphere of terror, and to some
  extent also of pity. The best work of the novelist is done in the
  creation of this terrifying monster, [Abel Mason]. For sheer stark
  horror his character finds few equals in recent fiction.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 N 24 ‘17 490w

  “It is plain that in theme and treatment she has been, probably
  unconsciously, influenced by the writings of Mr Thomas Hardy and Mr
  Phillpotts: thus the very considerable powers of expression with which
  she pictures the rich loveliness of an English countryside in
  springtime throw into ironical and shocking relief the sins and
  miseries of the human element. The author has somewhat overshot the
  mark. The material seems at times to get out of hand, the characters
  are not always intelligible, and there are unnecessary uglinesses.”

     – + =Cath World= 105:837 S ‘17 220w

  “It is something more than a merely human struggle that the author has
  represented, consciously or not. It is the eternal struggle of all
  elemental, living things to maintain their birthright to freedom of
  expression in living terms. This is the truth that the ‘ex-mill-girl’
  makes you feel. The dénouement is distinctly disappointing, below the
  level of the rest.” Ruth McIntire

     + — =Dial= 63:211 S 13 ‘17 900w

  Reviewed by Clement Wood

     – + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 26 ‘17 480w

  “It is all written with an imagination that shrinks from no horror,
  but is always able with sombre power to depict whatever height or
  depth of passion or suffering the characters rise or sink to. ... One
  closes the book with the conviction that ‘An ex-mill girl’ has brought
  a new note to current English fiction, a note that excels in sheer
  emotional power, in beauty of tone, in imagination, any voice that is
  now telling stories to the English-speaking peoples.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:265 Jl 15 ‘17 870w

  “It is crude, but it has a certain power and vigour which make it
  worth reading.”

     – + =Spec= 119:192 Ag 25 ‘17 30w

  “In places the story is well nigh revolting, but in its dramatic
  tensity and insight into primitive human passions it attains a high
  degree of power.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 430w

  “There is an intensity of emotion in ‘Helen of Four Gates’ a wild,
  desperate passion that excites while it oppresses the reader. You
  experience the same kind of sensation—though in a much stronger
  degree—that you have when you hold a wild bird in your hand.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p262 My 31 ‘17 530w


=HEMENWAY, HETTY.= Four days; the story of a war marriage. il *50c (4½c)
Little 17-24973

  This is a simply told story of a war marriage—the oft-enacted tale of
  the young Englishman who comes back from the horrors of the front to
  his quietly appointed English home with its circle of adoring
  relatives and his waiting girl bride. It is English in its quiet
  courage, pathetic in its telling of the stepping aside of the parents
  that those two might be all in all to each other during the short four
  days’ leave. It is real in its recording of the simple details and the
  last goodbye at the station where the two smiled back into each
  other’s eyes while a voice sounded behind them: “The average life of
  an officer in the Dardanelles is eleven days,” and above the singing
  of “Rule Britannia” shrilled the voice of a hunchback “I came that
  they might have Life.”

  “Beautifully told, it holds in its small compass the essence of the
  tragedy of the war for all young lovers.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:96 D ‘17

  “A moving and unusually well written short story.”

       + =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 40w

  “The author is a young Boston woman, a protégée of Mrs Deland. It is a
  profoundly moving little story, told with an appreciation of the
  virtue of restraint that is noteworthy in a first book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:343 S 16 ‘17 250w

  “One of the best bits of work that we have had in this country since
  the war started.” E. P. Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 92:808 S 15 ‘17 250w


=HENDERSON, LAWRENCE JOSEPH.= Order of nature; an essay. *$1.50 Harvard
univ. press 575 17-3165

  “Evolution is studied from a new standpoint in ‘The order of
  nature.’ ... The author almost commits himself to the opinion that
  life is a necessary consequence of the earth’s physical and chemical
  constitution, an opinion which points to a hitherto unrecognized order
  existing among the properties of matter. As a setting for the problem
  the teleological principles of Aristotle and of the philosophers of
  the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries are sketched, and then the
  biological and evolutionary doctrines are briefly reviewed. ... The
  last chapters are given to a discussion of the unique properties of
  the three elements, hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen. And it is on the
  examination of the properties and activities of these elements that
  the author hopes to show the teleological order of the universe. A
  proof is not pretended.”—Nation

  “Valuable and stimulating to readers with a knowledge of chemistry,
  physics, mathematics, and the researches of J. Willard Gibbs. For the
  large reference library.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:39 N ‘17

         =Ath= p250 My ‘17 90w

         =Dial= 63:528 N 22 ‘17 480w

  “The adaptation of organic life to its environment has been a favorite
  theme. As a rule, the physical and chemical aspects of the problem
  have been neglected, and Professor Henderson, by calling attention to
  them, has started an investigation which will certainly be continued.”

       + =Nation= 104:739 Je 21 ‘17 250w

  “It has come to be assumed that the reason why the physical and
  chemical environment appears to be specially fitted for life is simply
  that life has, by natural selection, been so moulded as to fit its
  environment. Against this conclusion the main chapters of the book are
  directed; and the argument is the more remarkable and original since
  the author accepts without question the theory of natural selection.
  His discussion of Spencer’s conception of evolution is perhaps
  specially luminous.” J. S. H.

       + =Nature= 100:262 D 6 ‘17 1000w

       + =N Y Times= 22:143 Ap 15 ‘17 60w

         =St Louis= 15:327 S ‘17 10w


=HENDERSON, W. E. B.= Behind the thicket. *$1.50 Dutton

  “This is a novel with a somewhat unusual theme, placed in a setting
  which is not unusual at all. The little English village of
  Wokeborough, near London, is not in the least unlike any number of
  small English towns. ... Michael is the leading character, a boy of
  six when the story begins, a young man when it closes. And it is the
  strange influence upon him of the woods which is the dominant theme of
  the novel, an influence which shows itself during his childhood and
  becomes stronger and stronger as the story progresses, ending at last
  in nymph-love and a tragedy understood only by the old Greek scholar
  who had been so fond of him always. ... Side by side with it, however,
  runs an interesting, realistic account of the relations of a mother
  and daughter, the conflict of two generations which failed to
  understand each other.”—N Y Times

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:206 O ‘17 330w

  “Less delicately it treads the ground which Mr Forrest Reid touched
  recently in ‘The spring song.’”

     + — =Nation= 105:247 S 6 ‘17 270w

  “The book is very well written, despite its author’s too great
  fondness for quotations, and some of the descriptions have in them
  more than a touch of poetry. If the difficulties inherent in the
  blending of the mystic, nature-worship theme with that of everyday
  life are not always entirely surmounted, the attempt is nevertheless a
  very interesting one.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:250 Jl 1 ‘17 500w


=HENDRYX, JAMES B.= Gun-brand. il *$1.50 (2c) Putnam 17-13183

  Perhaps it was a little inconsistent that a girl who “felt the
  irresistible call of the raw,” who languished in a civilized
  atmosphere should be obsessed with the idea of carrying the blessings
  of civilization to the Indian. Nevertheless the school that she is to
  establish gives the needed pretext for getting Chloe Elliston into the
  north, and that is all that matters. Once there her interest is
  divided between two men. Pierre Lapierre and Bob, called Brute,
  MacNair. Both are free traders and there is rivalry to the death
  between them. One is a dastard and knave, one an honest man, and,
  under his crude exterior, a gentleman. But Chloe makes the mistake of
  misjudging each and confusing the characters of the two. Blood flows
  freely before the tale is ended and the “raw” for which Chloe had
  yearned is hers in good measure.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:449 Jl ‘17

  “Mr Hendryx is a past master in the art of serving up fiction à la
  northwest. The subtler seasoning of plausibility and characterization
  are lacking in his handiwork, but the lover of such fiction will find
  it sufficiently wholesome and stimulating to be worth a hasty
  reading.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 200w

  “The plot, which of course is the important matter in a book of this
  type, is sufficiently ingenious. ... Occasionally the author forgets
  to be grandiloquent, which is fortunate for the book. The story moves
  swiftly, and will probably please the kind of reader for whom it is
  written.”

         =N Y Times= 22:258 Jl 8 ‘17 260w

  Reviewed by Joseph Mosher

     + — =Pub W= 91:1317 Ap 21 ‘17 300w

  “The reader’s pleasure in ‘The gun brand’ will be in ratio to his
  credulity. The story is characteristic, but less spontaneous than Mr
  Hendryx’s earlier tales.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 2 ‘17 320w


=HENNEBOIS, CHARLES.=[2] In German hands: the diary of a severely
wounded prisoner; with a preface by Ernest Daudet. (Soldiers’ tales of
the great war) *$1.50 Dutton 940.91 (Eng ed 16-24983)

  “Charles Hennebois was a volunteer in the French army, a
  poet-acquaintance of Daudet, and fell severely wounded on October 12,
  1914, before Saint Michiel after only a few weeks of service. He was
  left lying uncared for between the lines until the 16th, when the
  Germans gathered him up, sent him to Metz, and amputated his leg—an
  operation which another German surgeon later told him was unnecessary.
  Moved from Metz to Montigny and later to Offenburg in Baden, M.
  Hennebois was the victim and witness of many German brutalities, and
  the book is practically the diary he kept during those months. ...
  Incapacitated for further service, this Frenchman was fortunate enough
  to be exchanged, and in July, 1915, he was once more back in his home
  in Toulouse.”—Springf’d Republican

         =A L A Bkl= 14:123 Ja ‘18

  “A striking exposition of German cruelty and oppression.”

       + =Sat R= 122:420 O 28 ‘16 210w

  “Something different from the usual ‘war book.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 28 ‘17 370w

  “He is a man of letters by profession, not a writer for this occasion
  only, and knows how to tell his story instead of merely blurting it
  out. His tone is scrupulously fair.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p518 N 2 ‘16 530w


=HENRY, FRANCIS AUGUSTUS.= Jesus and the Christian religion. *$3 (2c)
Putnam 230 16-22324

  In this day of religious questioning, thinks the author, “we cannot do
  better than to turn from disputation and go back to the fountain-head
  of Christianity, the life and teaching of Him we call our Lord and
  Master; to try to enter into His mind and gain an insight of the
  religion He believed in and lived by. The following pages are an
  attempt to bring before the reader some of the leading principles of
  that religion with the purpose and the hope of inducing him to make a
  thorough study of a subject until recently too much neglected—‘the
  truth as it is in Jesus,’ and not as it is in the churches or in the
  Letter-writers of the New Testament.” The trend of the author’s
  discussion all goes to show that the history of the Christian church
  has been one of deviation from the teachings of its founder. In this
  he finds the explanation of the weakness of the church in modern life.
  He quotes Lessing’s words, “After eighteen centuries of Christianity
  it is high time to go back to Christ.”

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:188 D ‘16

  “The argument is conducted on an extensive scale and with ability.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p131 Mr 15 ‘17 180w


=HERFORD, OLIVER (PETER SIMPLE, pseud.).= Confessions of a caricaturist.
il *$1 Scribner 817 17-24407

  This little volume consists of thirty-two caricatures, accompanied by
  Mr Herford’s verses, of Napoleon, Roosevelt, Pierpont Morgan, Arnold
  Bennett, Peter Dunne, St Paul, John D. Rockefeller, “F. W.
  Hohenzollern,” and others.

  “Clever caricatures of famous men with an equally clever short rhyme
  for each picture.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:50 N ‘17

  “Here is an American humorist who can write and draw out of an
  abounding sense of fun, whose brain is fertile in conceits, and who is
  never insipid when his object is merely to provoke a smile. Best of
  all, when his purpose is satiric, his genial mood does not depart from
  him.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 750w


=HERGESHEIMER, JOSEPH.= Three black Pennys. *$1.50 Knopf 17-25287

  “The story depicts characteristics in the Penny family. The first is
  the survival of a strain, appearing in widely separated generations,
  which had given the possessor the distinguishing title of ‘Black’
  Penny; and the second—also an attribute of the strain—a black,
  scornful mood, an impatience at restraint and an egoistic, antisocial
  attitude toward life. The story is divided into three distinct parts,
  in each of which a ‘Black’ Penny moves upon the stage and contributes
  his share to the drama begun centuries earlier by the first embodiment
  of the foreign strain.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Uncommon as this book [’Secret bread,’ by F. T. Jesse] is in mood and
  quality, as well as in fitness of style, we have two American novels
  of the season that may fairly be matched with it. One is Ernest
  Poole’s ‘His family,’ on which I have already said my enthusiastic
  say. The second is ‘The three black Pennys.’” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:487 D ‘17 900w

  “Mr Hergesheimer is a master in his portrayal of the mind of man and
  the blind, not-understood, forces which urge him to what he does.” D.
  L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 D 12 ‘17 1650w

  “Contributing also to the ultimate failure of the work as a novel is a
  smaller flaw. The characters move in the setting as though it were a
  mere stage back-drop. The moods, the thoughts, the spirits of the
  various characters are in no way changed by those minute influences
  which make up so large a part of the mosaic of life. Memories of the
  exquisite blending of man and nature by such men as Meredith,
  Maupassant, and Flaubert flood into the reviewer’s mind. The virtue of
  the book is its psychology.” B. I. Kinne

   + – — =Dial= 63:643 D 20 ‘17 1250w

  “We do not suggest the quality of the tale; how, in the artist’s
  hands, this material, which in outline will seem merely clever or
  sensational, assumes dignity and a kind of beauty such as, if we were
  to search for an analogue, might lead us to Hawthorne rather than
  elsewhere.”

       + =Nation= 105:432 O 18 ‘17 400w

  “In spite of the sting of its fine artistry, its adroit blend of high
  literary models, only fitfully and uncertainly does it touch creative
  height.” H. S.

     + — =New Repub= 12:334 O 20 ‘17 1050w

  “Joseph Hergesheimer in this book has shown an exquisite mastery of
  prose form. The description of the modern iron furnace, for instance,
  is one of the finest word-paintings in recent fiction.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p18 D 15 ‘17 640w

  “He has here fashioned a novel out of distinctively American life on
  an original pattern, caught the very air and flavor of three widely
  separated epochs of our history.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:342 S 16 ‘17 1200w

  “The chief weakness of the present volume is that while the connection
  between the several parts is plausible, you feel that there is no
  inexorable connection between cause and effect. In fact, his work
  would have lost nothing essential if he had given it to us in the form
  of three unrelated short stories.” Grant Hosmer

     + — =Pub W= 92:1378 O 20 ‘17 1000w

  “He adopts an ambitious plan for a writer who has been before the
  reading public for so short a time, but he develops his theme with
  skill and notable success.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 480w


=HERING, CARL, and GETMAN, FREDERICK HUTTON.= Standard table of
electrochemical equivalents and their derivatives. il *$2 (7c) Van
Nostrand 541.37 17-20864

  “The chief purpose of this publication is to serve as a reference book
  on account of the tables and other data given in it, and not as a
  treatise on electrochemistry in general; sufficient explanatory text
  has however been added to enable the data to be used for most purposes
  without the need of a further treatise on the subject.” (Preface) The
  table of electrochemical equivalents is based on one worked out by Mr
  Hering in 1903, but it has been entirely recalculated from the latest
  and best internationally adopted values, including the atomic weights
  for 1917. Glossary and index are provided at the end.


=HERRICK, FRANCIS HOBART.= Audubon, the naturalist; a history of his
life and time. 2v il *$7.50 (3½c) Appleton 17-29872

  The discovery in France of a collection of fresh material bearing on
  Audubon’s ancestry and early life has enabled the author to write what
  may be called the first complete biography of the naturalist.
  Heretofore all that has been written on Audubon’s life has been based
  almost wholly on a brief sketch which he himself put together hastily
  in 1835, characterizing it as “a very imperfect account of my early
  life.” The new material supplements this fragmentary sketch and
  corrects it in many of its statements of fact. The two volume work,
  which is very fully illustrated, follows Audubon’s adventurous career
  in detail. The appendixes contain valuable matter, including the
  complete text of the French documents, some in the original, others in
  translation, and a bibliography, containing a fully annotated list of
  Audubon’s writings, biographies, criticism, and Auduboniana. Volume 2
  contains the index for the complete work.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:127 Ja ‘18

  “One closes Mr Herrick’s notable book with a feeling of keen
  satisfaction over the pleasure it has afforded and of gratitude to the
  author for having written it. ... The scores of beautiful and most
  interesting illustrations also deserve mention.” F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 46:329 N ‘17 250w

  “Combines scholarliness with a popular style and is enhanced by many
  fine illustrations.”

       + =Cleveland= p12 Ja ‘18 70w

  “This work by the professor of biology in Western Reserve university,
  himself a well-known ornithologist, is the first thorough and
  authoritative biography of the great naturalist whose life was one of
  the most romantic in American history.”

       + =Lit D= 55:44 D 8 ‘17 140w

  “The volumes are beautifully printed and magnificently illustrated,
  many of the plates being reproductions in color of Audubon’s drawings.
  For the reader whose interest in Audubon is scientific the book is
  invaluable; the more general reader will find it a fascinating story
  of tremendous struggle and great achievement.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:478 N 18 ‘17 1400w

       + =Outlook= 118:31 Ja 2 ‘18 80w

  “The present work gives from start to finish a sustained impression of
  a pioneer work. Even in the chapters that are necessarily based upon
  old, well-worked material, there is absolute freshness of treatment
  and point of view. ... As a crowning merit the work is equipped with
  an admirable bibliography.” Calvin Winter

       + =Pub W= 92:1388 O 20 ‘17 670w

       + =R of Rs= 57:99 Ja ‘18 130w


=HERRON, GEORGE DAVIS.= Menace of peace. *$1 (6c) Kennerley 940.91 (Eng
ed 17-13835)

  This little book is directed against the “clamour for a peace that
  shall leave the causes of the war unknown, the embattled questions
  unanswered,” and argues that “a peace based upon a drawn battle
  between the Germanic powers and the Allies is nothing else than the
  capitulation of the world to Prussian might and mastery,” whereas the
  victory of the Allies “will lead to the banishment of war from our
  planet.” Mr Herron believes that peace without victory would be to the
  interest of the munition-makers, because Europe would then continue to
  arm for war, and to the interest of the Vatican because, if autocracy
  should perish in Germany, it would perish elsewhere, and “the Catholic
  power depends upon the subjection of the peoples.”

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

       — =Bookm= 46:289 N ‘17 10w

  “An eloquent appeal to the Allies to endure to the end and win a
  complete victory for the sake of the spiritual values of humanity.”

       + =Ind= 92:60 O 6 ‘17 30w

  “The burden of Dr Herron’s adjuration is ‘Germania est delenda!’ He
  doesn’t put it in exactly these terms; calls it necessary
  chastisement, justice and things of that kind. ... It is written with
  all the powerful and graceful diction of which Dr Herron is an
  undoubted master. But we cannot in common honesty say that we are
  greatly impressed with it.” J. W.

   + – — =N Y Call= p14 Jl 8 ‘17 700w

  “Few writers upon the subject have stated the case with such
  comprehensive understanding of its factors, implications, and possible
  consequences, such compactness of presentation, such sturdy basing of
  argument upon the democracy that is at stake and such noble
  utterance.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:344 S 16 ‘17 450w

  “Written in the fiery eloquence of style and elegance of diction which
  have always characterized Dr Herron’s polemic writings. It has
  incidental interest as another vigorous expression of a well-known
  American socialist in direct opposition to the Socialist party’s
  policy of pacifism.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 270w


=HERRON, GEORGE DAVIS.= Woodrow Wilson and the world’s peace. il *$1.25
(5c) Kennerley 940.91 17-25519

  The author of “The menace of peace,” a Socialist, has collected in
  this volume six papers in defense of President Wilson’s policy and
  against a premature peace. All except the first, which was originally
  printed in the New Age of London, and afterwards in Die Freie Zeitung
  of Bern, were written for continental European readers, and published
  from Dec. 31, 1916, to July 1, 1917. The papers have been “somewhat
  developed,” but stand substantially as written. “Each paper has had
  two or more translations into other languages, other countries, than
  that in which it was originally published.” (Explanations and
  dedication) The frontispiece pictures the bust of President Wilson
  modeled in 1916 by Jo Davidson. Contents: Woodrow Wilson and the
  world’s peace; The man and the president; His initial effort; The
  pro-German morality of the pacifist; Pro-America; Appendix: an
  apologia.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:89 D ‘17

       — =Nation= 106:96 Ja 24 ‘18 300w

  “It is exceedingly difficult to adequately review a work of this kind,
  when one has not the viewpoint of the author, and especially when that
  viewpoint shifts.” J. W.

       — =N Y Call= p14 O 21 ‘17 590w

  “Americans ought to be thankful that so sturdy and understanding a
  fellow-countryman as Mr Herron lives in Europe and endeavors to
  interpret the mind of America to Europeans. Indeed, a good many
  Americans who have never been out of their own country will do well to
  read Mr Herron’s book and gain thereby a less superficial
  understanding of the policy of this government toward the world war
  during its first two years and upon other matters.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:359 S 23 ‘17 900w


=HERSEY, HAROLD.= Do’s and dont’s in the army for officers and privates;
an introd. to military science. *50c (2½c) Britton pub. 355 17-24260

  This small book, made to fit the pocket, has chapters on: The duties
  and deportment of officers; The duties and deportment of enlisted men;
  The officer’s equipment; An enlisted man’s equipment; Hygiene;
  Miscellaneous information; Discipline and morale. The author says that
  he has “merely endeavored to help the beginner find his way through
  the tortuous mass of detailed knowledge he must acquire—as well as
  furnish ready reference for the more experienced.”


=HESLER, LEXEMUEL RAY, and WHETZEL, HERBERT HICE.= Manual of fruit
diseases. (Rural manuals) il *$2 Macmillan 632 17-9694

  “Fruits are arranged alphabetically from apple to strawberry and under
  each the known diseases are grouped in order of importance. Symptoms
  of each disease are given, the cause described, and the best remedy
  suggested. Descriptions are popular; technical terms are all explained
  in a glossary. The final chapter is devoted to the preparation and
  application of fungicides. Short bibliographies given after each
  disease.” (A L A Bkl) The authors of this manual are the professor and
  the assistant professor of plant pathology in the New York State
  college of agriculture, Cornell university.

  “This book with Slingerland’s ‘Manual of fruit insects’ (Booklist
  11:205 Ja ‘15) forms a very practical guide for the doctoring of fruit
  trees.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:434 Jl ‘17

  “Discusses the subject from an essentially New England viewpoint,
  omitting from all consideration fruits and diseases that are of major
  interest in many states and nearly all that are of interest in our
  tropical possessions. The discussion of such diseases as are treated
  is in many instances from a local viewpoint rather than of a general
  nature. This is especially obvious in the treatment of such diseases
  as apple rust and pear blight. The illustrations are poor. ...
  Assuming a central New York viewpoint and interest, the book may be
  said to give a very complete presentation of what is known of fruit
  diseases, with valuable lists of references to original sources of
  information. It is, as the authors announce, the first American text
  to deal wholly with diseases of fruits, and here for the first time
  are brought together with comprehensive discussion many obscure and
  little-known diseases. The facts presented are well selected, and the
  book constitutes a valuable addition to the literature of plant
  diseases.” F. L. Stevens

     + — =Bot Gaz= 64:254 S ‘17 240w

         =Cleveland= p95 Jl ‘17 30w

       + =Ind= 91:297 Ag 25 ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:174 Je ‘17


=HEUSSER, ALBERT HENRY.= Land of the prophets. il *$2.50 (3½c) Crowell
915.69 16-23378

  The author’s advice to those who wish to visit Palestine is to “see
  Egypt first.” Our own home land, he says, is so attractive that
  Palestine suffers by comparison, but “after the burning yellow sands
  of the Sudan, Syria and Judea will seem to you, as to the Israelites
  of old, a ‘goodly land, beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole
  earth.’” The author is a lecturer for the Department of education of
  New York city, and his chapters have much of the informality of the
  spoken lecture. Contents: Port Said to Beyrout; Damascus; Galilee;
  Nazareth and Samaria; Ancient Jerusalem; Round about Jerusalem;
  Jericho and Petra; Bethlehem and Jaffa. There are many illustrations
  from photographs and a map.


=HEWES, AMY.= Women as munition makers, and Munition workers in England
and France, by Henriette R. Walter. *75c Russell Sage foundation 331.4
17-28208

  The first ninety-two pages of this book are given to a study, by Amy
  Hewes, professor of economics in Mt. Holyoke college and former
  secretary of the Massachusetts minimum wage commission, of conditions
  under which women were making munitions, in 1916, in Bridgeport,
  Connecticut. “Two articles giving the main results of the inquiry have
  already been published in advance of this report. ... The second of
  these articles, that dealing with the munition industry, was submitted
  in manuscript, in advance of publication, to officials of the
  Remington arms-union metallic cartridge company for their criticism.
  This procedure, customary in industrial investigations made by the
  Russell Sage foundation, was the more necessary in this case, because
  of the previous refusal of the company to give the Foundation the
  desired information. In the conferences which followed the reading of
  the manuscript, some statements were challenged, others verified, and
  additional material was obtained, especially regarding changes made
  after the field work of the investigation was completed. In response
  to the suggestion of the company that no study could be accurate which
  was not based on data obtained in the plant itself, the Foundation
  offered to make such a supplementary inquiry before publishing the
  report. This offer was refused.” (Introd.) The second section of the
  book (sixty-three pages) is by Henriette R. Walter, investigator for
  the Division of industrial studies of the Russell Sage foundation,
  who, under the caption “Munition workers in France and England,”
  summarizes reports issued by the British ministry of munitions. There
  is a bibliography of three pages.

  Reviewed by Edith Abbott

         =Am J Soc= 23:531 Ja ‘18 370w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:76 D ‘17

  “Although Miss Hewes’s study is confined to the subject of women as
  munition-makers, its social and economic findings apply generally.” H.
  M. Kallen

       * =Dial= 63:336 O 11 ‘17 1400w

         =Ind= 92:193 O 27 ‘17 80w


=HEWLETT, MAURICE HENRY.= Thorgils. *$1.35 (3½c) Dodd 17-5127

  Like “A lover’s tale” and “Frey and his wife” this is a Norse romance.
  It is the story of Thorgils of Iceland who sailed with Eric the Red
  and voyaged to Greenland, where he endured unnumbered hardships.
  Thorgils lacks the dash of some of Mr Hewlett’s other Norse heroes,
  notably that Gunnar who married the wife of Frey, but he is a man of
  might who wields great power by the force of his character.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:354 My ‘17

  “Mr Hewlett seems to tell his tale without effort or
  self-consciousness, with a bare vigour which fits his theme; with
  hardly a trace of verbal archaism.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:209 Ap ‘17 430w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 14 ‘17 1350w

  “An effect of virility and massive simplicity is produced with the art
  that is his own; yet the result is not all that we could ask from an
  author so gifted. It is at once too detached, and too harmonious with
  the stormy note of today. We feel we have almost a right to demand
  from Mr Hewlett that he either beguile our troubled eyes with a
  lovelier vision, or give us substance of hope and inspiration for the
  present.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:403 Je ‘17 220w

  “There are no descriptions, or conversations, or character studies.
  That is certainly a very different sort of writing from ‘Richard Yea
  and Nay,’ or ‘The queen’s quair,’ and people nowadays will not like it
  so well. Yet, like it or not, the result is much the same; out of the
  book there emerges a pretty definite figure.” E: E. Hale

       + =Dial= 62:189 Mr 8 ‘17 650w

  “We seem to visualize the Norse people, their customs and picturesque
  life.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1087 Ap 14 ‘17 180w

       + =Nation= 104:368 Mr 29 ‘17 380w

  “A little saga of the northland, very perfect in its reticence and
  simplicity and human appeal.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 104:404 Ap 5 ‘17 110w

  “Those who like stories of adventure that deal with simple, hardy,
  brave men and women will find ‘Thorgils’ an entertaining tale.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:51 F 11 ‘17 350w

       + =R of Rs= 55:664 Je ‘17 50w

  “With its lovemaking and fighting, its ship-building and sea sailing,
  the story makes a capital book for boys, who, unconscious of being
  instructed, might well be prepared by reading it for the reading of
  the saga stories.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p212 My 3 ‘17 370w


=HICHENS, ROBERT SMYTHE.= In the wilderness. il *$1.50 (1½c) Stokes
17-5984

  Dion and Rosamund Leith spend the first months of their married life
  in Greece and when they return to England they bring with them
  something of the Greek spirit. In Rosamund, however, there is a touch
  of the ascetic. She had once contemplated a religious life, and after
  the birth of her son she bestows on him all the fervor and devotion of
  her nature. The tragedy of their life together comes after the death
  of this child. She holds the father responsible and turns from him.
  Another woman who has always loved Dion steps in at this crisis, but
  the danger of losing her husband awakens Rosamund. The later scenes of
  the story are laid in Constantinople.

       + =Ath= p102 F ‘17 50w

  “It runs to nearly six hundred black pages, perhaps four hundred of
  them frankly through the mire. Mr Hichens is a master of the
  portentous style. All of his virtuous parts are done in it and are, to
  tell the truth, pretty dull going: the first book of the present
  story, before we get comfortably into the mud, is deadly.” H. W.
  Boynton

       — =Bookm= 45:205 Ap ‘17 470w

  “If ‘In the wilderness,’ were shorter, it would unquestionably be more
  forcible. Its nearly six hundred closely printed pages have a lifelike
  story to tell and an important problem to solve, but their sum and
  substance could easily be compressed within a third of that space with
  no loss to either the story or the problem.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 28 ‘17 1400w

  “Now and again one has a sense of surfeit. The relentless analysis
  confuses and fatigues. ... Such, however, is the artfulness of Mr
  Hichens that one reads his book to the end and lays it down satisfied
  to have witnessed an achievement fine of its kind.” Alice Bishop

     + — =Dial= 62:313 Ap 5 ‘17 670w

  “It is a pitiful hero who is so absolutely at the mercy of any woman,
  bad or good. The novel, however, is worth reading for its marvelous
  descriptions of Athens, Olympia, Constantinople and a little cathedral
  town in England.”

       + =Ind= 90:254 My 5 ‘17 200w

  “It exerts a definite and compelling fascination. The hours pass along
  as one reads, and time seems not to be. ... It is three years since Mr
  Hichens last gave a novel to the reading public; the present work has
  no note of hurry in it; it is ripe work, carefully finished and
  thoroughly felt.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:53 F 18 ‘17 1500w

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 50w

  “The most satisfying love story Robert Hichens has written.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:555 My ‘17 80w

  “Written with all Mr Hichens’s usual subtlety and dexterity.”

         =Spec= 118:568 My 19 ‘17 90w

  “The story commands the reader’s closest attention. Except for the
  ‘scarlet’ nature of Mrs Clarke, it is largely free from those hectic
  qualities which have marked several of Mr Hichens’s recent novels.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 380w

  “The theme that Mr Robert Hichens has chosen is the egoism of the
  religious mystic, and he has developed it in a way to bring out his
  own talent for describing the East and for suggesting the occult.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p68 F 8 ‘17 850w


=HIGGINS, SYDNEY HERBERT.= Dyeing in Germany and America; with notes on
colour production. 2d ed *$1.75 Longmans 667.2 Agr17-505

  “About thirty pages larger than the first edition which appeared in
  1907 as ‘a report to the electors of the Gartside scholarship of the
  University of Manchester on the results of a tour in the United States
  of America and Germany in 1905-1906.’ Intended to give a general
  survey of dyeing and its allied industries in the two countries. The
  text has been changed slightly and three chapters have been added,
  German and English flannelettes, Instruction in dyeing, and a
  continuation of the chapter on Colour production.”—A L A Bkl

         =A L A Bkl= 13:459 Jl ‘17

  “The author has been for nine years demonstrator in the dyehouse of
  the Manchester school of technology and in addition works as chemist
  and manager.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 130w

  “The author has gained much practical experience in dye and bleach
  works, the results of which are embodied in the new volume. This has
  added considerably to its value, particularly in the sections dealing
  with mercerisation and bleaching. ... The new edition of the book has
  been largely rewritten throughout, with great advantage. The
  concluding section deals with the future prospects of the
  dye-manufacturing industries in Britain, France, and the United
  States.” W. M. G.

       + =Nature= 99:303 Je 14 ‘17 530w


=HIGGINSON, MRS ELLA (RHOADS).= Alaska, the great country. new ed il
*$2.50 Macmillan 917.98 17-12395

  “Mrs Higginson’s notable book on ‘Alaska,’ first published nine years
  ago, has been revised, new material has been added, and the story of
  ‘the great country’ has been brought down to date. The body of the
  book, which deals with the scenic beauties, early history, native
  customs, resources, and the charm of the country, the author has not
  changed. But in a supplementary chapter she tells what has happened
  during the past ten years, and what is the present condition in
  railroad development, in commerce, mining, in the fishing and
  agricultural industries. ... The work has a map and half a hundred
  illustrations from photographs.”—N Y Times

  “Anyone who has visited Alaska will appreciate the enthusiasm which
  colors every page of this delightful volume.”

       + =Cath World= 106:545 Ja ‘18 130w

  “Mrs Higginson’s descriptions and her photographs of fir-tipped
  points, of swirling rapids, Eskimos in their parkas, and dog teams
  harnessed for their run across the frozen spaces, all make one long
  poignantly for bracing northern air and life among hardy, simple
  people.”

       + =Dial= 63:350 O 11 ‘17 260w

       + =N Y Times= 22:229 Je 17 ‘17 180w

  “Although the material presented is rather unsystematically put
  together and the style of presentation rather disjointed and
  unliterary, the book contains such a vast amount of information that
  it has met with considerable favor, necessitating a number of
  reprintings. Unfortunately this ‘new edition with new matter’ is
  produced in the easier and less expensive way of reprinting from the
  old plates the body of the book and adding a chapter at the end. In
  this latter is thrown together in an even more formless manner than is
  employed in the body of the book and, in a way of presentation that
  is, from the literary point of view, decidedly crude, the necessary
  information about the development of the last ten years. The original
  index is reprinted, and thus the new material is not indexed.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 250w


=HILL, DAVID JAYNE.= Rebuilding of Europe. *$1.50 (3c) Century 327.4
17-28774

  Dr Hill, former university professor, has been minister to Switzerland
  and to the Netherlands, and ambassador to the German empire. In this
  book, based on lectures delivered at Johns Hopkins university, he
  argues that “the great war is a revolution against the alleged rights
  of arbitrary force, rendered necessary by the failure to reach the
  goal of a secure international organization by an evolutionary
  process”; that the war was caused by “economic imperialism”; that its
  main issue is “the right of people to dispose of themselves,” that no
  permanent peace can coexist with the old European idea of state
  sovereignty. Dr Hill tries to show that the real enemy to be destroyed
  is not “any particular form of mere state organization,” but this
  “dogma that the state is a licensed brigand.” Various forms of
  international organization are discussed, and the author concludes
  that while “a general international government” is neither possible
  nor desirable, we may reasonably expect the formation of “a strong,
  but limited, group of powers, each willing to sacrifice something of
  its own sovereignty for the purpose of insuring peace and equity.” The
  last chapter deals with “America’s interest in the new Europe.” Five
  chapters were in part printed in the Century Magazine for 1917.

         =Bookm= 46:286 N ‘17 50w

  “An illuminating and forceful presentation of the war, regarded as a
  revolution against economic imperialism.”

       + =Cleveland= p2 Ja ‘18 50w

  “A very helpful exposition of the forces and conditions that have been
  prevailing in Europe and which must be taken into account when a
  definite plan for the reconstruction of civilization is undertaken
  after the war. The story is simple and direct, and the presentation is
  that of the trained scholar and publicist. The book deserves wide
  reading.”

       + =Educ R= 54:531 D ‘17 90w

  “No man in America was probably better equipped than Dr Hill to treat
  the momentous topic discussed in this volume. ... He understood the
  German people and the German mind. He could analyze feelings and facts
  with rare intelligence and sure skill. He speaks, therefore, as one
  having authority.”

       + =Lit D= 55:42 D 1 ‘17 600w

  “To the socialist reader the treatment of the subject will necessarily
  appear vague.” Joshua Wanhope

       — =N Y Cal=l p19 D 15 ‘17 900w.


=HILL, JANET (MCKENZIE) (MRS BENJAMIN M. HILL).= Cakes, pastry and
dessert dishes. il *$1.50 Little 641.5 17-24721

  The editor of the Boston Cooking School Magazine has added another to
  her already substantial list of cook-books. The publishers have given
  large, clear type and over sixty enticing illustrations reproduced
  from photographs. The index carries over 500 entries which include the
  old favorite cakes and desserts as well as many less-known ones.

  “A tantalizing collection of recipes to be published in war times.
  However, it contains bran cookies as well as a twelve-egg torte. There
  are brief general directions at the head of each chapter which are
  useful and the recipes are easy to follow.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:80 D ‘17

  “A boon indeed to young and old planners of meals. Carefully indexed,
  attractively illustrated and admirably printed and bound, a most
  satisfactory production in every particular.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 O 13 ‘17 110w

         =R of Rs= 56:554 N ‘17 50w

  “Since desserts are now reckoned among the luxuries of life in many
  households, the possessor of this book will be obliged to wait some
  time perhaps before she will feel that all the recipes may be added to
  her list of available favorites. This does not mean that all the
  recipes are unduly extravagant, for there are many of moderate cost.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 170w


=HILL, JOHN ARTHUR.= Psychical investigations; some personally-observed
proofs of survival. *$2 (2½c) Doran 134 17-13827

  Mr Hill has written other books on psychical research. He tells us:
  “at the beginning of my investigations, my prejudices and wishes were
  opposed to the conclusions which the facts gradually forced upon me.
  If I am now biased in favour of the belief in personal life after
  death, it is objective fact, not subjective preference, that has
  brought it about. And my judgments have not been hasty. I have worked
  at the subject for over eleven years.” (Preface) About one-half of the
  book is given up to verbatim reports of sittings with three different
  mediums, A. Wilkinson, Tom Tyrrell, and A. V. Peters. At one of the
  meetings with Mr Peters, occurred some of the incidents related by Sir
  Oliver Lodge in “Raymond.” Several chapters deal with the methods
  employed in psychical research. Other chapters deal with: Immortality;
  Home mediumship; Telepathy and survival; Psychical phenomena in
  earlier times; Pre-existence and the nature of the after-life;
  Psychical research and religion.

         =N Y Times= 22:281 Jl 29 ‘17 580w

  “The special interest of this volume is to be found in the fact that
  it deals, not with alleged messages from important or well-known
  people, but with communications, or what profess to be communications,
  from very ordinary and very often rather dull types of deceased
  humanity. It is not a book from which any spicy or sensational
  quotations are to be drawn. Nevertheless, open-minded investigators
  will find it worth perusal.”

       + =Spec= 118:613 Je 2 ‘17 350w

  “An investigator as careful and open-minded as Mr Hill is entitled to
  the opinion based upon his experience, and is justified in his
  endeavour to show that the conclusion to which his experience leads
  him, a decision in favour of the reality of spirit communications, is
  not incompatible with philosophy or religion.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p150 Mr 29 ‘17 1000w


=HILL, MARION (HILL) (MRS CHARLES R. HILL).= McAllister’s grove. il
*$1.40 Appleton 17-13950

  “This new novel is a delightfully written little story of a girl, a
  man, and an orange grove. Laurie McAllister—full name, Annie
  Laurie—had saved a little bit of money; her aristocratic old
  grandfather and only living relative suffered greatly from the cold of
  New York winters, and the advertisements about Florida were most
  alluring. ... To Florida they went, she and her grandfather, who in
  Scotland was ‘The McAllister,’ and there she discovered that the grove
  was in an utterly forlorn and neglected condition, the trees having
  been starved for years. ... Though she soon learned that the number of
  ills to which flesh is heir are as nothing compared with those which
  are the natural inheritance of an orange grove, she struggled along,
  and while she would certainly have been beaten had it not been for
  Charles Roycroft and his chivalrous sacrifice, she won out at the
  end.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 13:450 Jl ‘17

  “A story both cleverly conceived and cleverly told, with a refreshing
  spontaneity and sincerity.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Jl 14 ‘17 420w

         =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 60w

  “An unusually well-written story which does not put too heavy a strain
  upon the reader’s credulity and which has a vivid charm by way of
  local color and much genuine humor.”

       + =Dial= 63:74 Jl 19 ‘17 120w

  “The book contains an interesting account of the growing and packing
  of oranges.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:211 My 27 ‘17 400w


=HILL, WILLIAM ELY.= Among us mortals; pictures and legends by W: E.
Hill; text by Franklin P. Adams. *$1 Houghton 817 17-30263

  Mr Hill’s profession, so Franklin P. Adams says, is helping make the
  world safe from hypocrisy. The collection of drawings offered in this
  volume shows some of his best efforts in that direction. Mr Adams says
  in his “Preface to a preface,” “Hill is popular, by which I mean
  universal, because you think his pictures look like somebody you know,
  like Eddie, or Marjorie, or Aunt Em. But they don’t; they look like
  you. Or, if you prefer, like me.” When the reader finds himself,
  somewhere in the group, surely the great disillusioning comes. Perhaps
  one may be the lady laughing at a Ford joke, or one of the two faculty
  wives having the time of their lives pulling Mrs Prexy to pieces; or
  perhaps one may be the young man who makes an unfortunate break, or
  the artist who discovers that the only one of his pictures sold has
  been hung upside down. It is the sort of glass Cassius would be to
  Brutus—one that “reveals that of yourself which you yet know not of.”

  “Unmistakably American.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:157 F ‘18

  “These drawings have attracted much attention in the New York Tribune,
  striking a new and very penetrating note in American caricature.”

       + =Dial= 64:36 Ja 3 ‘18 60w

  “Solving the problem of Yuletide—what to give for Christmas—is a
  difficult matter. ... ‘Among us mortals’ is the kind of book which can
  be sent to anybody with perfect safety. The wisest will laugh at
  Hill’s pictures and F. P. A.’s nonsense, and the foolish will take it
  seriously.” L. G.

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ja 5 ‘18 230w


=HILLS, RALPH WINCHESTER.= Machine drawing. (Industrial education ser.)
il *$1 McGraw 744 17-19718

  “‘Machine drawing’ is the title of a new book on this subject prepared
  in the extension division of the University of Wisconsin, by Ralph W.
  Hills, instructor in mechanical drawing. ‘The material in this volume
  is the first half of the instruction papers as developed and used by
  the extension division. ... The second volume will be devoted to the
  more specialized lines of work.’ The author avoids needless
  technicalities and begins at once with ‘real drawings.’”—School Arts
  Magazine

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p12 Jl ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:651 O ‘17

  “He pays no attention to perspective effects when sketching freehand,
  and but little to pleasing arrangement of sheet. It is a reliable
  guide to _mechanical_ drawing.”

     + — =School Arts Magazine= 17:94 O ‘17 160w

  “‘The text and problems have been carefully prepared and arranged so
  as to develop speed, accuracy, neatness, and a knowledge of the best
  drafting room practices.’ The above quotation from the preface is
  thoroughly justified. Supplementing the chapters on principles and
  those on detail and assembly drawing there is one on Technical
  sketching that should prove valuable.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 17:228 Ja ‘18 130w


Hindu mind training; by an Anglo-Saxon mother; with an introd. by S. M.
Mitra. *$3.50 Longmans 371.4 E17-302

  “The author, dissatisfied with various western systems of mind
  training ... turned her attention to the ancient Hindu system of mind
  training, into which she was initiated by the writer of the
  introduction to her book. The system largely depends upon unconscious
  or preconscious cerebration. ... By a series of psychological
  questions and answers on subjectmatter previously narrated, the
  pupil’s mind is prepared, the author states, to receive facts, to
  interpret them correctly, to distinguish facts from opinions, to
  reason accurately, to differentiate between the logic of words and the
  logic of facts, and to make practical use of the information so
  gained. Character is in this way developed. The book contains many
  examples of this method of training receptive minds.” (Ath) “Mr Mitra
  is an Indian writer and teacher of much ability, whose works are well
  known to those who study Indian thought and politics. ... In an
  introduction he explains the advantage of the procedure, and also
  devotes some pages to a comparison between Hindu and Western
  philosophic thought while he appends, at the close of the book, an
  essay instituting a comparison between the analytic psychology in
  ancient Sanskrit literature with that to be found in La Rochefoucauld,
  under the title ‘Franco-Hindu psychological affinity.’” (The Times
  [London] Lit Sup)

         =Ath= p96 F ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:103 Jl ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:692 O ‘17 40w

  “A careful perusal of the Hindu stories impressed upon the young in
  the course of an Anglo-Saxon Mother’s many trials will produce in most
  minds trained in philosophic thought a profound conviction that
  neither Hindu philosophy nor Hindu morality is suitable for
  inculcation in this country. The logical deductions are too divergent
  from our whole social and moral system. ... This book, if it cannot be
  regarded as an educational gospel, will do something to provoke
  interest in Indian moralities.”

         =Sat R= 123:sup6 My 19 ‘17 420w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p58 F 1 ‘17 220w


=HINES, JOHN CHESTERFIELD (JACK HINES).= Blue streak. il *$1.35 (3c)
Doran 17-25860

  Ten stories for young and old of ice bound Alaskan trails whose
  central figures are fearless, heroic, obedient wolf dogs. These
  malamutes have a sympathetic champion in the writer who tells of the
  kind of dog devotion that can lavish the love of a life time upon a
  supreme effort to save a master; or that can starve and die if need
  be, in the traces of duty. It is this sort of creature that hears his
  master exclaim, “What dog words are there that I can bark or howl long
  enough to proclaim what you are!” The half wild, half domesticated
  friend and servant of the lonely trapper and miner is well-nigh
  immortalized in these chapters that proclaim the blue streak in dog
  nature.

  “All of them are vigorous human tales of the Yukon, and they are
  written obviously by a genuine lover of dogs. Boys will enjoy the
  adventurous aspect of these stories; and yet the best one of them all
  does not deal with adventures, but with a trial.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 230w

  “The stories are convincingly written because they are not well
  written. If done in a facile style they would probably be accepted as
  merely entertaining. But the very faults of redundancy and
  sentimentalism and occasional failure of action are faults natural to
  a story-teller who is engaged rather in showing the bravery, beauty,
  and cleverness of his beloved thoroughbreds than in producing a
  finished tale.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:414 O 21 ‘17 180w

  “Mr Hines reveals himself a delightful story-teller. He does not waste
  words, but drives straight at the point he intends to illustrate.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 230w


=HINKSON, KATHARINE (TYNAN) (MRS HENRY ALBERT HINKSON).= Middle years.
*$3.50 Houghton (*10s 6d Constable & co., London) (Eng ed 17-11336)

  “‘Katharine Tynan’s’ earlier volume of reminiscences agreeably whetted
  the appetite of her readers for further memories, and this record of
  what she calls ‘the middle years’ eclipses its predecessor in the
  interest and variety of its contents. In it she describes the close of
  her girlhood in Dublin and some twenty years of married life spent in
  England before her return to Ireland shortly before the war. In a
  sense it is the story of an exile from Erin, because she was never
  Anglicized, Ireland remained the true home of her heart, and her most
  intimate friends were Irish or people with Irish affiliations. But
  though Irish to the core, a devout Roman Catholic, and an intense
  admirer of Parnell, she does not harbour any anti-English
  animosity.”—Spec

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:399 Je ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 4 ‘17 670w

  “The real centres of interest are about the Meynells, Francis
  Thompson, and Lionel Johnson. ... And those to whom these names
  already mean much as the names of leaders in modern letters, will find
  that their affection deepens in proportion to their more intimate,
  familiar acquaintance with the objects of that affection.”

       + =Cath World= 105:535 Jl ‘17 600w

  “Her record conveys the impression that she has been delightfully
  busy, tirelessly interested, and exuberantly happy. Her prime gifts,
  which richly flavor the volume, are her Celtic blood, her quick warm
  sympathies, her affection for almost all kinds of men and women and
  all kinds of flowers and pets.”

       + =Nation= 105:459 O 25 ‘17 680w

  “Those who read ‘Twenty-five years: reminiscences’ were persuaded that
  Miss Tynan lives a most enviable life; those who read ‘The middle
  years’ will be convinced of it. It is a charmingly intimate talk with
  the author about all her friends, and unconsciously she conveys to us
  a very lovable portrait of her own cheery self.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:139 Ap 15 ‘17 1400w

  “It is really as a novel, veraciously and graciously picturing life,
  that one reads ‘The middle years.’ The story is a true one, of course,
  but its spirit is more important than its facts. Even in the fuller
  portraits, what one thinks of is friendship and character, rather than
  the details of the picture.”

       + =No Am= 206:131 Jl ‘17 830w

         =R of Rs= 55:667 Je ‘17 70w

  “These chapters abound in generous and affectionate tributes to those
  who were near and dear to her, who shared her ideals, encouraged her
  in her work, and applauded her successes. Her early days in London
  brought her in contact with many remarkable people in the literary
  world, and the letters from Mr W. B. Yeats, from ‘Æ’ (Mr George
  Russell), from Francis Thompson, and from Mr George Wyndham would
  alone make the book cheap at double the price.”

       + =Spec= 118:272 Mr 3 ‘17 1900w

  “Against Katharine Tynan herself the accusation of having substituted
  literature for life cannot be brought. One learns enough of the woman
  and the mother to see that her life has been full and very human.
  There is a mellowness about the last chapters that leaves one warmed.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p579 D 7 ‘16 1100w


=HIRSCH, MRS CHARLOTTE (TELLER).= Diary of an expectant mother. il $1.25
(2½c) McClurg 618.2 17-12627

  This is the story of a woman who wanted children but feared the months
  of waiting before the birth of her first child, and who did not know
  how to live hygienically under such conditions. In addition to much
  advice as to her personal life, the nursery, the baby’s outfit, etc.,
  are considered. The book is exceedingly popular in style.

  “As a volume for the perusal of other expectant mothers we can
  heartily recommend this work. It is not loaded with technicalities,
  and is in no sense a treatise on obstetrics and maternity generally,
  but rather a sane and excellent preventive against needless worry,
  while at the same time emphasizing the natural character of the
  episode of motherhood and recommending the simple, sensible course
  that should be pursued during the period.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 S 9 ‘17 370w


=HITCHCOCK, ALFRED MARSHALL.=[2] Over Japan way. il *$2 (3c) Holt 915.2
17-31433

  An informing, entertaining book about Japan, handsomely illustrated,
  which is made up of the impressions of an American tourist with eyes
  wide open. After six days of “monotonous blue” he lands and claims the
  reader for companion while he runs the gamut of first sensations,
  which he remarks, “are cause for grayer hair about the temples.” The
  rikisha, the tram, the bewildering sights thru “wide streets, narrow
  streets, narrower street, alleys barely wide enough for a wheelbarrow,
  dark places and still darker suggest treachery, ambush.” He tells
  about the inns and hotels, he visits schools from the kindergarten to
  the university, goes shopping, attends a play, beards a volcano,
  visits shrines and sacred places and touches the high spots of
  Japanese scenery. He records lightly his experiences and their play
  upon his emotions.

  “The author writes in an intimate, conversational style. Everything is
  given with a running fire of humorous side remarks that entertain as
  well as instruct.”

       + =Lit D= 56:40 Ja 12 ‘18 160w

  “The quaint, genial, shrewdly humorous observations of Mr Hitchcock
  serve to make this an unusual book of travel. No attempt is made to
  pass over the submerged side of life as seen in the segregated parts
  of the large cities and in the daily grind of industry.”

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ja 26 ‘18 450w

  “Despite obvious drawbacks, the author conveys a distinct and
  convincing impression of the Japanese scene. He is frankly an outsider
  and gives his views with some humor, appreciating that his sincerity
  is not to be confounded with the profundity of the research student.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:10 Ja 13 ‘18 200w

  “In text and illustration this latest book on Japan seems in some
  respects the best of the short accounts.”

       + =Outlook= 117:654 D 19 ‘17 30w

  “Entertaining travel sketches embellished by a series of beautifully
  reproduced photographs.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:219 F ‘18 20w

  “He has not added much to the substance of our knowledge about Japan,
  but he has written a book of travel sketches, in which impressions are
  expressed gracefully and ingratiatingly. There is a graphic touch in
  his words, and the reader is able to share the images and ideas in the
  author’s mind.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 F 3 ‘18 370w


=HITSCHMANN, EDUARD.= Freud’s theories of the neuroses; auth. tr. by Dr
C: R. Payne, with an introd. by Ernest Jones. *$2 Moffat 130 17-4719

  “What may be called the orthodox or strict Freudian conception of
  neurotic conditions, briefly set forth by Hitschmann, holds that the
  neuroses originate in the sex life of the individual, the form of the
  nervous disturbance differing in accordance with the strain that the
  sex life has undergone. There are ‘true neurasthenia’ types resulting
  [from four causes]. ... Freud’s ‘psychoanalytic’ method of treating
  these conditions is explained and a chapter is devoted to his views
  regarding prophylaxis.” (Survey) “At the end of the book there is a
  useful chronological review of Freud’s works from 1893 to 1910, as
  well as a catalogue of Freudian literature in English.” (N Y Times)

  “Hitschmann’s book is aimed primarily at physicians, although it is by
  far the most readable, and most clearly expressed of the three. [The
  other two referred to are Adler’s ‘Neurotic constitution,’ and
  Pfister’s ‘Psychoanalytic method’].” Wilfrid Lay

       + =Bookm= 45:199 Ap ‘17 50w

  “The translation, like all of Dr Payne’s translations, is accurate,
  lucid, and in excellent style.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:331 S 9 ‘17 320w

  “An interpretation of Freud which adds little, either in reasoning or
  examples, to Freud’s own statement of his theories.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 20 ‘17 150w

  Reviewed by R. S. Woodworth

         =Survey= 38:361 Jl 21 ‘17 200w


=HOAR, ROGER SHERMAN.= Constitutional conventions. *$2 Little 342.7
17-16733

  A collection of all of the available law and precedent relating to the
  nature, powers and limitations of constitutional conventions. The book
  has been prepared by a former state senator of Massachusetts who was a
  member of the commission to compile information and data for the use
  of the Massachusetts convention now in session. With authority and
  thoroughness the writer answers questions of this character: What
  gives validity to this method, so frequently used to amend our state
  constitutions? Is the convention, once launched, subject to either
  legislative, executive, judicial or even popular control? Is the
  convention bound by law, or even by the constitution? Can it control
  the other branches of the government? Can it create a new
  constitution, without submitting it to the people for ratification?
  All of these questions, and many more like them, are answered in this
  book, the only modern and up-to-date text-book on the subject.

  “A reliable textbook on a subject which has seldom been treated at any
  length.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:113 Ja ‘18

  Reviewed by J. Q. Dealey

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:143 F ‘18 440w

         =Ind= 92:487 D 8 ‘17 30w

  “For the statesman, the lawyer, and the student of public affairs,
  even for the courts, indeed, there is a wealth of useful information
  within the covers of this book. He has not been altogether successful
  in keeping to the rôle of non-partisan. Between the lines it is easy
  to detect, in many instances, Mr Hoar’s own political leanings. His
  progressivism refuses to stay in the background. Yet this is, after
  all, a small blemish.”

     + — =Nation= 106:117 Ja 31 ‘18 400w

  “Mr Hoar’s careful analysis of the various problems arising whenever a
  revision of a state’s fundamental law is undertaken, is applicable in
  every state, and will, no doubt, be the standard treatise for many
  years to come.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:326 S ‘17 220w

  “The index is of special value. The author’s opportunity to produce
  such a work reliably has been a public advantage.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 330w


=HOBHOUSE, LEONARD TRELAWNY.= Questions of war and peace. *3s 6d T.
Fisher Unwin, London 940.91 (Eng ed 16-16727)

  “There is, as might be expected from a thinker so able as Dr Hobhouse,
  much that is suggestive in these three papers, two of which—‘The soul
  of civilization’ (reprinted from the Contemporary Review) and ‘The
  hope of the world’—are in the form of dialogues. In the first the
  writer shows how he has come to regard the war as an inevitable clash
  between two separate civilizations, with two religions, and expresses
  his belief that there will result from it a more genuine feeling both
  about nationality and about public right. The second covers much
  ground—views of the war and its problems, of the conflict between
  freedom and state control, &c. ... The third paper gives the substance
  of an address at the National liberal club on January 18 [1916], of
  which the chief feature is the author’s plea that the existing
  alliance may form the basis of a much wider one, may point to ‘the
  ultimate ideal of internationalism at two or three removes.’”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

  “‘The hope of the world’ is especially interesting. ... One will go
  far to find a better brief of discussion of the militarist state, the
  prospects of democracy, the ‘laws’ of human society, and, in general,
  the ‘hope of the world,’”

       + =Nation= 104:48 Ja 11 ‘17 300w

         =Nation= 105:297 S 13 ‘17 450w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:187 D ‘16

  “In these brilliant Platonic dialogues on current questions Professor
  L. T. Hobhouse, the Martin-White professor of sociology in the
  University of London, has provided us with a delightful entertainment.
  This can be safely said without committing ourselves to Mr Hobhouse’s
  conclusions. He handsomely admits that he was wrong in the past about
  Germany and that he misjudged Lord Grey of Fallodon’s policy.”

       + =Spec= 118:17 Ja 6 ‘17 1350w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p311 Je 29 ‘16 190w


=HOBSON, JOHN ATKINSON.= Evolution of modern capitalism. il *$1.75
Scribner 331 17-13332

  “In this revised edition of his well-known work the author has
  included a long supplementary chapter, the first part of which deals
  with industrial and commercial movements during the decade preceding
  the war. Some of the new economic facts and forces revealed by the
  experiences of the war, the problems they contain, and the tendencies
  they exhibit are then set forth, as a contribution towards a
  speculative forecast of capitalism in the early future.”—Ath

         =Ath= p96 F ‘17 70w

         =Dial= 63:457 N 8 ‘17 330w

       + =N Y Times= 23:3 Ja 6 ‘18 930w


=HODGE, HAROLD.= In the wake of the war, parliament or imperial
government? *$1.50 Lane 328 17-21846

  “The late editor of the Saturday Review makes the same allegations
  about the impotence of the House of commons, the nullity of the rank
  and file of M.P.’s, etc., as raised such a storm of contradiction when
  they were made by Messrs Belloc and Chesterton in ‘The party system’
  and ‘The servile state.’ He is concerned, however, less with the
  affairs of the United Kingdom than with the future of the empire; and
  he proposes to take imperial matters out of the hands of what is
  mistakenly called the Imperial Parliament, and put them under a
  separate and independent body. After considering various plans he
  concludes that, party government being a failure, the best solution
  would be for the crown ... to appoint a council of ten, five citizens
  of the Dominions, and five citizens of the United Kingdom. ... In
  order that it should reflect the will of the citizens of the empire,
  it should consult them by means of referenda.”—Ath

         =Ath= p408 Ag ‘17 270w

         =Boston Transcript= p9 D 8 ‘17 580w

  “‘In the wake of the war,’ is well written in point of style. ... Mr
  Hodge is sick of parties and believes they have had their day. ... We
  go gaily along the path of criticism with Mr Hodge. It is when he
  arrives at the unmapped region of reconstruction that we reluctantly
  part company. He proposes to strip Parliament of the powers and duties
  which make it interesting and respectable and to hand these over to an
  Imperial council of ten, nominated by the king, and armed with the
  referendum. To this scheme we object: (1) That Parliament will not
  allow itself to be stripped. (2) That the king cannot appoint anybody
  of his own motion. (3) That the referendum in Australia and in the
  United States (v. the Oregonian constitution) has been a failure. ...
  We think our author is mistaken in supposing that the Colonies would
  agree to the common management of imperial affairs.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:29 Jl 14 ‘17 950w

  “Whatever scheme may be adopted for imperial government, it will
  certainly not be Mr Hodge’s.”

       — =Spec= 119:121 Ag 4 ‘17 170w


=HODGES, GEORGE.= Religion in a world at war. *$1 (5½c) Macmillan 252
17-14691

  Eight short sermons or essays on the relation of Christianity to war,
  and, more especially, to the present war, by the dean of the Episcopal
  theological school at Cambridge, Mass.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:74 D ‘17

       + =Bib World= 50:375 D ‘17 80w

         =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 40w

  “From the standpoint of practical homiletics, as a source of comfort
  or encouragement, or as a stimulus to action, Dean Hodge’s sermons on
  the war are rather unimpressive. As the reflection of a point of view
  they are significant. ... It is evident that Dean Hodges finds the
  whole subject of the war embarrassing and difficult. The effect of
  facing his difficulties frankly is, however, to give us a sane and
  courageous expression of what, it seems, must needs be the attitude of
  a Christian minister towards the war.”

     + — =Nation= 105:431 O 18 ‘17 550w

  “The book really demands no review—it is little more than a collection
  of drab and conventional biblical paraphrases justifying America’s
  participation in the war.” Bertram Benedict

       — =N Y Call= p14 Ag 19 ‘17 1350w

  “This is a book for the nation. It clarifies and confirms our national
  confession, ‘In God we trust.’”

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 60w

  “A most stimulating book that can be read to mental, moral, and
  spiritual profit.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:329 S ‘17 150w


=HODGSON, RALPH.= Poems. *75c Macmillan 821 17-14542

  This collection of twenty-five poems is a reprint of the verses which,
  before the war, used to appear at intervals in England in tiny
  booklets with mustard-colored paper covers and decorations, plain or
  colored, by Mr Lovat Fraser. The writer was recently awarded the
  Edward de Polignac prize.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:86 D ‘17

  “There is in his verse a vein of blunt and unsophisticated enthusiasm
  for ideals.”

       + =Ath= p401 Ag ‘17 1100w

  “Mr Hodgson has a place of his own among the minor poets of to-day.
  None writes more naturally; none has such an objective, simple, and
  direct style, or aims less at mere literary effects. His is the
  poetry, not of ideas, but of sights, sensations, raptures. In forms
  that appear artless because they are such excellent art, it is the
  spontaneous expression of the lyric ecstasy of life and action, and of
  the natural faith of one who joys in his being as a particle in a
  glorious universe, untroubled by the mystery of existence.”

       + =Ath= p413 Ag ‘17 200w

  “What gives Mr Hodgson his distinction is his subtle fancy which may
  be seen at the finest in ‘The song of honor,’ ‘The bull’ (which is a
  rather wonderful piece of realism) and ‘Babylon,’ as well as in some
  of the brief lyric catches where a single idea is caught like a bee in
  a flower. In the whole volume there are only twenty-five titles and in
  spite of the above-mentioned faults they will be prized by all lovers
  of poetry.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 11 ‘17 350w

       + =Cleveland= p121 N ‘17 170w

  “Mr Hodgson is that rarity in these times, a poet of very small
  production, and of production on a uniformly high level. ... His chief
  value lies in what he has to say. There are two arts in poetry: the
  art of precisely saying what one has in mind; and, even more important
  (though less regarded), the art of excluding from one’s conception all
  that is not of pure value. It is particularly in this latter respect
  that Mr Hodgson excels. The most arresting feature of his work,
  however, is the fact that though he is essentially a lyric poet he is
  none the less essentially objective,—never, or seldom, speaking in his
  own voice, or developing, psychologically, any personal or dramatic
  viewpoint.” Conrad Aiken

   + + — =Dial= 63:150 Ag 30 ‘17 1700w

  “There is not a page in this book that is not beautiful; to come upon
  a volume of this sort is a real pleasure to the critic wearied with
  much technically excellent, but commonplace perfunctory, verse. ...
  Most readers will agree with the London Nation in calling ‘Eve’ ‘the
  most fascinating poem of our time.’”

       + =Lit D= 55:32 Ag 11 ‘17 1400w

  “Mr Hodgson is something of a blend of Davies’ naïveté and de la
  Mare’s melodic magic; he is less distinctive than either. ‘Eve’ has
  some undoubted elements of greatness; ‘The bull,’ the short ‘The
  mystery,’ ‘After,’ and other poems possess great beauty or some
  striking quality.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 200w

       + =R of Rs= 56:217 Ag ‘17 170w

  “That the original queer and charming booklets—original in every sense
  of the word—will always be treasured and preferred by those who
  possess them we take to be certain. But in the new volume the poems
  stand the test of collective and separate presentment well, and
  promise, it seems to us, to endure as long as anything of our time
  whether as a rounded achievement on a small scale or as earnest of
  larger things to come. ... It is the unfailing suggestion of vastness
  and the beyond, coupled with the insistently vivid realization of the
  present and the immediate, which gives Mr Hodgson’s work perhaps its
  most characteristic distinction.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p283 Je 14 ‘17 1450w


Hohenzollerns through German eyes. 1s Hutchinson, London 741

  “The book consists of a series of cartoons, all dealing with the
  Kaiser and the Prussian royal family, selected from the well-known
  Munich comic paper Simplicissimus, from November, 1903 [March, 1906?]
  to May, 1914. The paper made it its main business to attack the
  imperial government, German militarist ideals, and clerical
  sycophancy.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “To readers unfamiliar with the latitude in respect to criticism of
  the German emperor and his family permitted, at all events prior to
  the war, in some of the German satirical journals, this collection of
  cartoons will be a revelation.”

         =Ath= p360 Jl ‘17 80w

  “The paper [is] universally known for the excellence of its
  draughtsmen, amongst whom O. Gulbransson is perhaps the cleverest of
  all. ... It is rather surprising that material which gives such
  striking corroboration from the German side to much in our
  representation of the Kaiser and his entourage, should not have been
  brought before the British public till now. From the outbreak of the
  war Simplicissimus has been as strongly nationalist as before it was
  rebellious.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p269 Je 7 ‘17 500w


=HOLCOMBE, ARTHUR NORMAN.= State government in the United States. *$2.25
(1c) Macmillan 353.9 17-51

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “This will be useful as a reference work or text for advanced
  students.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:428 Jl ‘17

  “The work shows a careful study of the great mass of material and a
  systematic organization of the data, forming the most important single
  contribution thus far made to the whole subject.” J: A. Fairlie

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:344 My ‘17 650w

  “An excellent survey of the whole field of state government, its
  history, tendencies and needs. There is less detail on the
  administrative side than in Mathews’ ‘Principles of American state
  administration,’ but the discussion of political reforms is much
  fuller.”

       + =Cleveland= p68 My ‘17 50w

       + =Educ R= 54:97 Je ‘17 60w

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:151 Ap 19 ‘17 180w

       + =Ind= 90:252 My 5 ‘17 130w

  “The tendency of modern reformers is to concentrate attention upon a
  single measure and to ignore its effect upon the general system of
  which it forms a part. Works such as this serve, with those who will
  attend to them, to check this tendency, and therein lies their special
  merit.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:127 Ap 8 ‘17 120w

       + =R of Rs= 55:444 Ap ‘17 50w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 14 ‘18 850w

  “Very interesting, and by no means without instruction for ourselves,
  is Mr Holcombe’s account of the working of the party system and of the
  efforts made by the sovereign people to escape from the tyranny of the
  ‘machine.’ Of special value is the light which Mr Holcombe throws on
  the working of the most recent experiments in the initiative,
  referendum, and recall. The book is not light reading, though of
  absorbing interest.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p158 Ap 5 ‘17 1800w


=HOLDICH, SIR THOMAS HUNGERFORD.= Political frontiers and boundary
making. *$3.25 Macmillan 320.1 16-23414

  “It has been the lot of Sir Thomas Holdich to give practical
  consideration in many parts of the world to problems of boundary
  settlement. ... His present aim is governed by the fact that among the
  few writers who treat of this important subject he can find no
  authoritative opinion based on practical experience, no elementary
  work in which the stern needs of political discretion are shown to be
  at variance with the sentiments cherished by idealists. ... The
  sovereign purpose of a national frontier is to promote friendly
  relations between neighbour states by putting a definite edge to the
  territorial and political horizon of both; then trespass cannot be
  easy in a time of excitement, and secret planned aggression has
  natural difficulties to overcome before it can do harm to a peaceable
  country. Sir Thomas Holdich considers these conditions in
  boundary-making, and shows how they may be made real—or as real as
  human nature will permit them to be—in a statesmanly choice of a
  frontier.”—Sat R

  “It is with the major premise that most readers of the volume will be
  tempted to quarrel. ... Apart from the particular theory upon which
  the volume rests there is much that is of value in the author’s
  description of the geographic features of boundary lines, and the
  chapters upon the delimitation of frontiers in Asia, Africa and South
  America will be read with particular interest.” C. G. Fenwick

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:354 My ‘17 450w

  Reviewed by C. L. Jones

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:237 My ‘17 320w

  “Sir Thomas Holdich has known these frontiers from their first
  formation in the seventies of last century, and is probably better
  qualified to write of them than any other man alive. The descriptions
  in his book will be of permanent importance, but the book ranges far
  from the Pamirs and Andes over broad fields of political theory and
  the European war, and here it will not go unchallenged.”

       + =Ath= p23 Ja ‘17 1600w

  “The author, who served on the Afghan, Asmar, and Argentine-Chile
  Boundary commissions and was superintendent of frontier surveys of
  India, here speaks with authority on a theme of timely interest.”

       + =Cleveland= p147 D ‘16 30w

  “His book is easily the best discussion of its subject that exists in
  the English language. I can only hope that in a second edition it will
  be given the illustrative maps it so badly needs.” H. J. Laski

       + =Dial= 62:96 F 8 ‘17 70w

  “The great blemish in his book is the conspicuous absence of index and
  maps.”

     + — =Nation= 104:405 Ap 5 ‘17 1400w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:187 D ‘16 40w

         =St Louis= 15:8 Ja ‘17

       + =Sat R= 122:350 O 7 ‘16 1300w

  “A brave, a breezy, a timely, and a suitably optimistic book. ... His
  conclusions are extremely interesting, they are expressed in admirably
  clear and striking phrases, they are enlivened by vivid and
  captivating pictures of the wild hill tracts.”

       + =Spec= 117:sup529 N 4 ‘16 1000w

  “He invariably approaches the subject of which he is a master without
  any marked political prepossessions. Sir Thomas Holdich is a
  geographer, and not a politician. Yet no frontier-maker can be
  indifferent to political considerations; and so he tells us that in
  dealing with problems of boundary settlement his object has been ‘to
  ensure peace and good will between contiguous peoples by putting a
  definite edge to the national political horizon, so as to limit
  unauthorized expansion and trespass.’”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p483 O 12 ‘16 1500w


=HOLDSWORTH, JOHN THOM.=[2] Money and banking. *$2.25 (1½c) Appleton 332
17-24253

  The first edition of this work was published in 1914. Of the changes
  in the new edition, the author says, “the most significant, perhaps,
  are those involving clearings and collections, Federal reserve
  currency and foreign finance. ... The discussion of these changes and
  developments has been introduced with the least possible disturbance
  to the textual arrangement, but on nearly every page some revisions
  have been made; many sections have been rewritten, entire new sections
  have been added; and the last chapter, on the Federal reserve system,
  has been rewritten in the light of its development to date.” (Preface)

  “The revision is well designed to render the book even more acceptable
  as a text than was the first edition three years ago.” C. A. P.

       + =Am Econ R= 7:882 D ‘17 170w

         =R of Rs= 57:220 F ‘18 50w


=HOLLAND, RUPERT SARGENT.= Blue heron’s feather. il *$1.25 (1½c)
Lippincott 17-28759

  A story of old New Netherland. Nicholas Tappan, silk merchant of
  Amsterdam, decides to send his son Peter to the new world in company
  with Derek Keeft, who is to act as superintendent of the vast estate
  recently acquired along the Hudson. Peter looks forward to new
  adventures and is not disappointed, for very shortly after his
  arrival, he is taken captive by Indians. Fortunately he had earlier
  won the friendship of Manawok, a young brave, who now intercedes for
  him. Peter learns Indian ways, and after his return to his own people
  takes a stand for justice and friendly relations toward the red men
  which results in an unbroken peace between the Dutch and the Mohawks.

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:496 D ‘17 70w

  “One of the most excellent stories of Indian days in the Colonies is
  that of ‘The blue heron’s feather.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:466 N 11 ‘17 100w


=HOLLEY, HORACE.= Divinations and Creation. *$1.25 Kennerley 811 17-9237

  Mr Holley’s small volume of post-impressionist poems called “Creation”
  was published in 1915. This group of poems is included as part 2 of
  this new book. Part 1 consists of an entirely new group, altho some of
  its individual poems have appeared in Poetry, the Smart Set, the
  Forum, the Masses and other magazines.

  “Between vain sublimities Mr Horace Holley now and then achieves a
  quiet success. ‘The orchard’ is a specimen.” O. W. Firkins

     – + =Nation= 105:245 S 6 ‘17 100w

  “His first little book was passionately arresting. And now we find the
  same extraordinary individuality revealing itself in ‘Divinations,’
  which, though it may lack much of the author’s earlier impassioned
  beauty shows a more constrained power and flexibility.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:201 My 20 ‘17 450w

  “Miss Harriet Monroe has selected three of these poems for her
  anthology of ‘new poetry,’ and W. S. Braithwaite has included ‘Cross
  patch’ and a sonnet, ‘The orchard,’ in his anthology for 1916.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:439 Ap ‘17 180w


=HOLLINGWORTH, HARRY LEVI, and POFFENBERGER, ALBERT THEODOR.= Applied
psychology. *$2.25 (3½c) Appleton 150 17-28082

  Untechnical in treatment this volume, by two Columbia university men,
  offers to men and women of every walk of life assistance towards a
  dignified and prosperous existence. It is an efficient instrument in
  producing success in life. The discussions all aiming to assist in
  systematizing a field hitherto vague and unorganized, include the
  following chapters: Efficiency and applied psychology; Influence of
  heredity upon achievement; Family inheritance; Efficiency and
  learning; Influence of sex and age on efficiency; Environmental
  conditions [two chapters]; Work, rest, fatigue and sleep; Drugs and
  stimulants; Methods of applying psychology in special fields;
  Psychology and the executive; Psychology in the workshop; Psychology
  and the market; Psychology and the law; Psychology for the social
  worker; Psychology and medicine; Psychology and education; The future
  of applied psychology.

         =Cleveland= p7 Ja ‘18 20w

  “There is little evidence that Messrs Hollingworth and Poffenberger
  value highly any other kind than business success. We are rarely
  offered a more naïve revelation of psychological science serving as
  the handmaid of commercial exploitation.”

       — =New Repub= 13:323 Ja 12 ‘18 620w

  “For the social worker, teacher or parent the book should be valuable
  in presenting the latest scientific word on many modern problems. It
  is written very simply and is free from many technical terms.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 160w

  “This new book is the best that has yet appeared in bringing the
  results of many experiments and excursions in this field within two
  covers.” F. A. Manny

       + =Survey= 39:267 D 1 ‘17 310w


=HOLLINGWORTH, HARRY LEVI, and POFFENBERGER, ALBERT THEODOR.= Sense of
taste. il *$1.25 Moffat 152 17-14044

  “‘The sense of taste’ is a book of two hundred pages by two members of
  the faculty of Columbia university. It is one of a series in
  preparation by Moffat, Yard & Co., with the title ‘Our senses and what
  they mean to us.’ It is edited by G. Van N. Dearborn, who contributes
  an introduction to this volume, which is, as he truly says, ‘at once
  interesting and scientific up to the hour.’”—Nation

       + =Dial= 63:409 O 25 ‘17 200w

  “While it does not purport to solve any of the riddles still presented
  by this sense, it gives an excellent summary of present knowledge, the
  writers who have done most to elucidate the subject being, with one
  exception, duly cited. The authors are more careful than their
  predecessors in not claiming for the sense of taste what belongs to
  the allied sense of smell.”

       + =Nation= 105:347 S 27 ‘17 400w

  “This first volume in the new series presages an interesting and
  well-coordinated attempt to synthetize an exposition of the sensory
  apparatus and its psychologic reflexes.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 5 ‘17 300w


=HOLME, CHARLES=, ed. Art of the British empire overseas. (International
studio. Special winter no., 1916-17) il *$3; pa *$2.50 Lane 759 17-15451

  “Mr Holme has gathered reproductions of twenty-three pictures by
  eighteen Canadian artists (one being in color), forty by twenty
  Australian artists (three in color), twenty-nine by New Zealand
  painters (five in color), and twenty-three by South African painters.
  Each section has a brief account of the development of the artistic
  expression in these four quarters of the world and the outlook for the
  future. Mr Eric Brown, director of the National gallery of Canada; Mr
  James Ashton, a prominent painter of Australia; Mr E. A. S. Killick,
  secretary of the New Zealand academy of fine arts, and Mr Edward
  Roworth of Cape Town, speak with authority of their respective
  countries and give many interesting biographical details of the
  artists represented, besides pointing out the difficulties under which
  they labor.”—Boston Transcript

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 9 ‘17 410w

         =Cleveland= p113 S ‘17 20w

         =Ind= 92:488 D 8 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:651 O ‘17 20w

         =Pratt= p29 O ‘17 30w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 750w


=HOLME, CHARLES=, ed. Arts and crafts. (International Studio, Special
number) il *$3; pa *$2.50 (6½c) Lane 740 17-6662

  A review of the work executed by students in the leading art schools
  of Great Britain and Ireland. The London and the provincial schools of
  art are treated separately, the first by W. T. Whitley, the second by
  the head master or some other person connected with each school. The
  illustrations have been chosen to show many lines of work.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:300 Ap ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 260w

  “Especially useful to American supervisors and teachers. The pictures,
  to be sure, of work done by the students demonstrate no marked
  superiority over the output of American schools of similar scope; they
  show, indeed, a few things which a rigorous censor might have left
  out.”

     + — =Nation= 105:608 N 29 ‘17 140w

  “The text is highly illuminating, enabling the reader to gain a clear
  idea of the activities of the schools and also the underlying
  intention governing these activities which is to develop home talent
  to a degree that will make unnecessary foreign importations of design.
  The chapters on the provincial schools are even more interesting than
  those given to the schools of London.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:85 Mr 11 ‘17 350w

  “Of intense interest both to students and teachers in this country for
  purposes of comparison and the stimulation of effort.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:557 My ‘17 110w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 4 ‘17 420w

  “There is any amount of talent evident in the works illustrated in
  this book and a good deal of skill: but both seem aimless. The objects
  are produced rather for competitions between students than for human
  beings to use. They do not express the real tastes, the real values,
  of anyone in particular. Therefore, they are likely to fail
  economically no less than artistically.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p635 D 28 ‘16 650w


=HOLMES, JOHN HAYNES.=[2] Life and letters of Robert Collyer, 1823-1912.
2v il *$5 Dodd 17-30357

  A full and well-rounded story so told that the great Unitarian divine
  “speaks for himself and thus reveals the fibre of his soul.” Rev. John
  Haynes Holmes, one of the foremost leaders of liberal thought of
  today, has found his task a thoroughly congenial one. Associated in
  the ministry with Dr Collyer, Mr Holmes says, “He was my colleague, my
  friend, my brother, my father in the spirit.” The materials used in
  the preparation of the biography include Dr Collyer’s autobiography;
  his own writings; autobiographical lectures; his letters; three
  scrap-books of newspaper and magazine clippings; pamphlets, programs,
  leaflets and newspapers and magazines covering periods of Dr Collyer’s
  career. The man whom Mr Holmes holds up to view is Robert Collyer “the
  blacksmith, preacher, lecturer, author, public leader, but always
  radiant of spirit, full of grace and truth, touched with the potency
  of love.”

  “Dr Holmes, whose pages, although written in a more sentimental
  manner, also make, as do Mr Hale’s, a graphic portrayal of his subject
  and cause the very man himself to stand forth a vital, radiant being,
  discusses very interestingly Dr Collyer’s relation to his time and the
  reasons for his wide and potent influence.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:553 D 16 ‘17 500w

  “It is hardly to be wondered at if the biographer, in the lawful
  enthusiasm of his task, may sometimes seem open to the charge of hero
  worship. At the same time one discovers, briefly, in the summary, that
  this idol had toes, if not feet of clay, which were usually well shod
  and covered from general gaze.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 31 ‘17 650w


=HOLMES, JOHN HAYNES.= Religion for to-day; various interpretations of
the thought and practise of the new religion of our time. *$1.50 (1c)
Dodd 252 17-5458

  Thirteen addresses, delivered first as sermons in the Church of the
  Messiah, New York city, and elsewhere, make up this volume. Each has
  been selected, the author says, “because of its own especial character
  as a representative expression of radical thought on religious
  questions of the day.” In the first essay the essential
  characteristics of the religion of the future are summed up: it will
  be a scientific religion, doing away with the old antagonism between
  science and religion; it will be based on ethical values rather than
  on theological beliefs; it will stress social rather than individual
  morality. The last three sermons were preached shortly after the
  outbreak of the war and reflect the author’s uncompromising attitude
  on the subject of force.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:373 Je ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p8 F 28 ‘17 480w

         =Cleveland= p67 My ‘17 40w

  “Every reader who is possessed of the social passion and who has seen
  the social vision will sit up at night to read this book and will go
  around lending it to his acquaintances. It is the real thing.” L: A.
  Walker

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ap 15 ‘17 480w

  “Trenchantly, yet constructively critical in his attitude throughout,
  Dr Holmes strives to give enough of the other side which he criticizes
  to present it fairly if not fully. Especially incisive and conclusive
  are his social applications of religion to the conditions of life and
  labor which demand both its destructive and reconstructive power. Dr
  Holmes is an absolutist in his uncompromising stand for the ultimate
  ideal of peace as applicable to a world at war, but he fails to show
  how it could have been, or could be, applied by the peoples facing a
  war-rampant nation on a rapid march for world conquest.” G. T.

     + — =Survey= 39:264 D 1 ‘17 470w


=HOLT, ANDREW HALL.= Manual of field astronomy. il *$1.25 Wiley 522
17-866

  “This textbook for use in civil engineering courses bases it principal
  claim upon conciseness, and yet completeness, in its treatment of
  fundamentals. On the whole, the object of the author has been
  obtained, and practising engineers who only occasionally have to make
  astronomical observations will find it especially helpful. The
  treatment of the ofttimes confusing conceptions of the measurement of
  time is given particular attention, with many illustrative problems
  solved in excellent form. ... The main text occupies about 76 pages,
  the appendices on spherical trigonometry and solar attachments for
  transits about 14 pages, tables about 12 pages, and the sample field
  notes 20 pages.” (Engin Rec) The author is instructor in civil
  engineering in the University of Iowa.

  “Clearly and concisely written and much more complete than the usual
  college-student manual.”

       + =Engin N= 77:436 Mr 15 ‘17 90w

  “The illustrations and diagrams are clear and well-conceived, the
  method of presenting the successive operations is logical and the
  sample field notes show just how best to avoid confusion and error in
  the important matter of records.”

       + =Engin Rec= 75:276 F 17 ‘17 220w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:27 F ‘17

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p8 Ja ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:656 O ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:141 My ‘17


=HOLT, LUCIUS HUDSON, and CHILTON, ALEXANDER WHEELER.=[2] History of
Europe, from 1862 to 1914. *$2.60 (1½c) Macmillan 940.9 17-31435

  A narrative of the chief events of European history from the beginning
  of Bismarck’s chancellorship to the outbreak of the great war in 1914.
  Thruout the narrative “emphasis has been laid upon those events which
  have affected international relations. The narrative of the domestic
  politics of the separate states has been curtailed, except where such
  politics had a distinct bearing upon the part which a state played in
  international affairs. The alliances and the conflict of interests
  which have brought about the present great war have been discussed in
  detail. The characters and methods of those statesmen who have had the
  greatest influence in international issues have been developed at
  length. It has been our plan thus to give the reader a conception of a
  true history of Europe rather than to present an aggregation of
  histories of the separate European states.” (Preface)


=HOLTZ, MATHILDE EDITH, and BEMIS, KATHARINE ISABEL.= Glacier national
park; its trails and treasures. il *$2 (4c) Doran 978.6 17-14959

  One may travel thru Glacier park on foot, on horseback, by automobile,
  or, to some extent, by motor boat. The authors of this guide chose the
  horseback way, but there is plenty of information in their book for
  those who prefer one of the other means of travel. The chapters are:
  Nature’s great play-ground; Hotels and chalets; On the Mount Henry
  trail; Trails and roads; The old Travois trail; Piegan pass—the flower
  pass; The flower fields of Glacier national park; Some mountain lakes;
  On glaciers; Types of tourists; A day with the Blackfeet; Some
  Blackfeet legends and Indian names; Blackfeet historical pictographs.
  The photographic illustrations are exceptionally good. There are end
  maps and an index.

  “Personal, readable descriptions. Well illustrated and has a United
  States geological survey map.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:56 N ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p113 S ‘17 30w

       + =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 30w

       + =N Y Times= 22:229 Je 17 ‘17 230w

  “Taken all in all, the book and the park are bound to add to the
  emphasis of the slogan, so timely just now, ‘See America first.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 28 ‘17 350w


=HOPKINS, TIGHE.= Romance of escapes; studies of some historic flights,
with a personal commentary. il *$3 (3c) Houghton 940 (Eng ed 17-12964)

  In an introductory chapter (Part 1), “On the art and mystery of
  escape,” the author reviews briefly many notable escapes. In Part 2,
  he selects some noteworthy escapes for description in detail, namely:
  the escapes of Casanova from the Inquisition; the Polish exile
  Pietrowski’s journey out of Siberia; the Irish midshipman O’Brien’s
  three exciting efforts to get out of a French prison in the days of
  Napoleon; the escape of Morgan of the Rough-riders in the Civil war;
  Haldane’s flight from Pretoria in the Boer war; Louis Napoleon’s
  flight from the fortress of Ham; the adventures of James Choyce
  “prisoner of war in two worlds”; Louvet’s 165 days run for life from
  the vengeance of Robespierre; the escape of the Empress Eugénie from
  Paris; the hazards of John Mitchell, Irish ‘forty-eighter, between
  Tasmania and San Francisco; and the adventures of De Buquoit, who
  claimed to be “the first man who broke the Bastille in 1709.”

  “In Casanova’s and Buquoit’s accounts of their exploits the author
  considers that much may be regarded as apocryphal. The want of an
  index is a serious defect in a book of this kind.”

         =Ath= p485 O ‘16 180w

  “Mr Hopkins’s retelling of some famous episodes will interest young
  readers and old alike.”

         =Spec= 117:sup685 D 2 ‘16 150w


=HOPKINS, WILLIAM JOHN.=[2] Clammer and the submarine. *$1.25 (2½c)
Houghton 17-25435

  Adam and Eve, the clammers, are already well known to readers of the
  author’s other leisurely stories of the Massachusetts coast. They
  appear again in this story, which is complicated somewhat by the love
  affairs of their friends and by the approach of war. In the end Adam
  enlists in the navy.

  “Not as spontaneous as the earlier works.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:131 Ja ‘18

  “Its author comes perilously near being a professional purveyor of
  sentiment. His Adam and Eve of the clam-beds become a trifle cloying.
  In the end Adam rouses himself from his amiable long-shore loitering
  and maundering, to enroll himself in the navy. But that act, also, he
  sentimentalizes.”

       — =Nation= 105:540 N 15 ‘17 250w

  “Mr Hopkins’s original ‘clammers,’ Adam and Eve, are always pleasant
  to meet, and always a sense of humor and a spirit of refinement are in
  his stories. Adam’s awakening to patriotism and war service is true
  and fine.”

       + =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 30w

  “Mr Hopkins deserves a high place as a sentimental writer, using that
  term in its best sense. The present volume worthily sustains the
  author’s reputation and provokes a call for more.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 250w


=HORNBECK, STANLEY KUHL.=[2] Contemporary politics in the Far East. *$3
(2½c) Appleton 950 16-18764

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “Professor Stanley K. Hornbeck has given us a really valuable study in
  the field of Far Eastern politics. He has rarely permitted his
  feelings to affect his judgment. For the period it covers, his book
  will win a place as a sound and useful work of reference.” P. J. Treat

 *     + =Am Hist R= 22:654 Ap ‘17 800w

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:958 N ‘17 600w

  “He understands what so few writers on the Far East understand about
  Japan, that the greater half by far of her so-called aggression and
  imperialism is self-defence and exaggerated caution. ... Regarding
  China, particularly with respect to her domestic conditions, he is not
  so far-seeing. ... His book, in the best tradition of American
  liberalism, vigorous, realistic, hopeful, broadly planned, and
  trenchantly written, is the most serviceable contribution in recent
  years towards America’s proper understanding of her responsibilities
  in the Far East.”

       + =Nation= 104:681 Je 7 ‘17 650w

  “There have been hundreds of books about the Far East in which a few
  grains of fact have been blown on hot air blasts of personal opinion.
  Beside them Mr Hornbeck’s wealth of information and judicial,
  temperate attitude make a volume for which American readers should be
  grateful.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:169 Ap 29 ‘17 760w

  “Dr Hornbeck has lived long enough in China to interpret her views to
  the West; he has not become so immersed in the current of politics as
  to forget his academic training or miss the sources of this current in
  the past.” F. W. Williams

       + =Yale R= n s 6:661 Ap ‘17 870w


=HORNE, HERMAN HARRELL.= Teacher as artist; an essay in education as an
æsthetic process. (Riverside educational monographs) *70c (7c) Houghton
371.1 17-5150

  “In the following pages the first essay raises the question whether
  the art of teaching may in a measure become one of the fine arts, and
  answers in the affirmative, under certain conditions. What these
  conditions are the second essay attempts to set forth.” (Preface)
  Teaching is first tested by Professor Tufts’ definition of art: “Any
  activity or production involving intelligence and skill.” Next it is
  subjected to the test of fine art: “An activity or product of activity
  which has æsthetic value or (in the broadest sense of the term) is
  beautiful.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:42 N ‘17

  “Two thoughtful, thought stimulating essays.”

       + =El School J= 17:533 Mr ‘17 20w

         =Ind= 91:295 Ag 25 ‘17 60w

  “The teacher can find in this book some fine inspiration, and the
  lay-reader can learn how much and how little, in his private moods,
  the teacher can think of himself and why.”

       + =Nation= 104:544 My 3 ‘17 330w

         =Pratt= p11 ‘17 30w

  “The chapter entitled ‘Shriving the inartistic teacher’ offers
  considerable food for thought.”

         =School R= 25:302 Ap ‘17 12w


=HORNER, WARREN MURDOCK.= Training for a life insurance agent.
(Lippincott’s training ser.) il *$1.25 (7c) Lippincott 368 17-13557

  “This book is written, primarily, for those directly interested in the
  life insurance business, but in a non-technical manner so that it may
  be of value to laymen, especially those interested in salesmanship.”
  (Introd.) The book is published in a series the aim of which is to
  help those “who want to find themselves,” and it sets forth the
  necessary qualifications and training for life insurance as a
  business, with a special chapter on The woman in life insurance. The
  author is general agent for the Provident life and trust company of
  Philadelphia in Minnesota, Iowa and the Dakotas.

  “Brief and vigorous suggestions for making a success of life
  insurance.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:6 O ‘17

       + =Cath World= 105:408 Je ‘17 100w

       + =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 10w

         =Ind= 90:352 My 19 ‘17 40w

  “The training of a life insurance agent is not the principal topic of
  the book in spite of its title. The early chapters explain the
  qualifications and personal characteristics necessary to success as an
  agent, but the remainder discuss methods of selling insurance and
  agency organization.”

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:105 Jl ‘17 50w


=HORSCH, JOHN.= Menno Simons; his life, labors, and teachings. $1.25
John Horsch, Scottdale, Pa. 16-6143

  A biography of Menno Simons, the 16th century religious leader from
  whom the Mennonite movement took its name. “That Mr Horsch had almost
  virgin soil to break is probably due to the fact that the material for
  a real biography of Menno is so slight. ... He has been compelled to
  devote most of his space to an account of Menno’s opinions and
  extracts from his writings. To this he has added refutations of many
  things falsely charged against Menno, most of them quite convincing;
  and discussions of the relation of Menno to other radical leaders of
  the time, like Melchior Hofmann and John of Leyden.”—Am Hist R

  “This is a welcome addition to religious literature, since there is no
  other life of Menno available in any language. ... The historical
  value of the book is very considerable, the author’s diligence is
  exemplary, and a quantity of material has been brought together from
  various sources that has never before been printed in English. ... The
  author’s diligence and good sense are more in evidence than his
  literary skill. The book is unnecessarily jejune and dry, because of
  the great preponderance, in parts, of quotations from documents, the
  interest of which to a reader is in inverse ratio to their value to a
  student of history. It is to be feared that this quality will limit
  the numbers of readers unduly.” H: C. Vedder

     + — =Am Hist R= 22:699 Ap ‘17 400w

  “The author is to be commended for the dispassion with which he sets
  forth events and issues which have been storm centers of controversy.
  As much may be said for the dignified manner in which he represses all
  hero-worship. One could wish that such a fine-spirited, well-balanced,
  and informing biography had found expression in style a little more
  polished and animated.” P. G. M.

     + — =Am J Theol= 22:150 Ja ‘18 460w


=HOTBLACK, KATE.= Chatham’s colonial policy. *$2.50 Dutton 616 17-8079

  “Miss Hotblack’s thesis is a study of how Pitt attempted to make
  commerce flourish by war. ... The plan of the book has enabled her to
  give a very clear outline of Pitt’s policy. He is followed
  successively through the affairs of the African colonies, Canada, the
  West Indies, and so on, and the commercial side of his work as
  secretary for the Southern department is well brought out in four very
  interesting chapters. Similar treatment of the Northern department,
  over which Pitt’s control seems to have been as complete as over the
  Southern, and an important chapter on the Stamp act, complete a
  valuable piece of research. An appendix contains some hitherto
  unpublished letters.”—Ath

  Reviewed by C. E. Fryer

         =Am Pol Sci R= 12:133 F ‘18 400w

  “Miss Hotblack has enabled the reader to form a much better judgment
  on the value of Pitt’s work than was possible before.”

 *   + – =Ath= p234 My ‘17 2000w

         =Boston Transcript= p9 O 17 ‘17 600w

  “Her book will be useful to all who want to know more of the motives
  and principles of the creator of British imperialism.”

       + =Spec= 118:729 Je 30 ‘17 1450w


=HOUGH, EMERSON.= Broken gate. il *$1.50 (2c) Appleton 17-21973

  “Aurora Lane has been for twenty years the milliner and dressmaker of
  the village. ... Years before, unwed, she had borne a child; she had
  sent it away and had said that the infant had died. Pursuing her way
  quietly and modestly, and earning her scanty living by hard work, she
  had ever since lived in the village, generally ignored, but secretly
  respected and outwardly scorned by most of its people. But the child
  had not died, and when the story opens he has grown to a fine,
  vigorous young manhood and comes to the village to see his mother. She
  and her one friend, a crippled woman, have together saved and scrimped
  and educated the boy, while he has believed himself to be an orphan.
  He strikes a man on the street who insults his mother, soon after
  learns from her all the bitter truth, is arrested for assault, and for
  the next three days the town is in a ferment of excitement and
  unprecedented happenings. They reach their climax when a man is
  mysteriously killed, the boy is arrested for the murder, and a mob,
  seeking to lynch him, is foiled of its purpose and rushes to ravage
  his mother’s home.”—N Y Times

  “It is modern and American enough in scene and detail, but begins with
  a fantastically improbable situation, and carries the reader’s
  credulity and sensibility from strain to strain.” H. W. Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 46:341 N ‘17 70w

  “It is a fine opportunity for pathos, and the author may be counted on
  to make the most of it.”

       — =Dial= 63:647 D 20 ‘17 90w

  “It is realistic, small-town melodrama, swift and sharp in its
  movement, but, notwithstanding its many events crowding close upon one
  another’s heels, its interest is chiefly emotional. ... Although there
  is much in the story that the author has failed to make convincing, it
  has qualities of invention and construction that hold the interest.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:302 Ag 19 ‘17 670w

  “In ‘The broken gate’ Emerson Hough is no longer on the solid ground
  of historical fact. Consequently he flounders between melodrama and
  tragedy. ... The story hardly attains the standard set in Mr Hough’s
  preceding romances.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 16 ‘17 320w


=HOUGH, EMERSON.= Man next door. il *$1.50 Appleton 17-4711

  “Pyramus and Thisbe in the terms of Chicago’s North Side and the
  twentieth century, with the regrettable omission of the lion, is the
  theme of Mr Emerson Hough’s new novel. ... Curly, the ex-foreman of
  the Circle Arrow ranch, tells the story of Old Man Wright’s removal to
  Chicago, of the breaking-in of the fair Bonnie Bell Wright to
  millionaire row, of the building of the wall, and of the man on the
  other side thereof.”—Dial

  “Told in cowboy dialect.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:354 My ‘17

  “Except for the fact that the story is told in an entertaining way,
  there is very little in the plot of Bonnie Bell’s attempt to make a
  place for herself in the best circles of Chicago which would attract
  the attention. ... The excitement lies really in the almost fatal
  attempts at diplomacy which Curly makes and the calamity which is
  barely averted.”

         =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 400w

  “Untrue, insignificant, and generally uninteresting are the terms we
  must reluctantly attach to Mr Hough’s latest excursion in the realms
  of fiction.”

       — =Dial= 62:247 Mr 22 ‘17 140w

         =N Y Times= 22:63 F 25 ‘17 430w

  Reviewed by F. M. Holly

         =Pub W= 91:206 Ja 20 ‘17 320w


=HOUGHTON, BEATRICE YORK.= Shelleys of Georgia. il *$1.35 (1½c) Lothrop
17-23649

  “Captain Gabriel Shelley, his lovely young second wife Madge, and his
  beautiful daughter and only child Rose are ‘The Shelleys of Georgia’
  of the title. The story is principally concerned with the love affairs
  of Rose, and with the innocent and successful plot by means of which
  she redeemed the man she had once loved, brought happiness to a much
  injured woman, and secured the future of a baby which but for her
  might have been a very unfortunate child indeed. The date of the tale
  is the time of the Spanish-American war.”—N Y Times

  “The novel is entertaining if not very plausible, and presents a
  rather interesting scheme for the care of those children who for one
  reason or another become the especial wards of the state.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:336 S 9 ‘17 220w


=HOWARD, KATHARINE.= Two plays, and a rhapsody. pa 60c Katharine Howard,
Lee apartments, B and 9th st., San Diego, Cal. 812 17-65

  The two plays are allegorical. In the first, The house of future, a
  series of thirteen brief scenes, the life of a woman who lives on in
  the lives of her children is pictured. In the house of life, two
  persons, a man and a woman, move thru the rooms of the house, tasting
  the experiences it offers and in the end coming out on the roof to
  find peace and quiet under the stars. The rhapsody describes the
  vision of a poet who has sought eternal youth.

  “Mrs Howard’s inspirational works, ‘Eve’ and ‘The book of the
  serpent,’ are well known both in this country and in England, and a
  collection of poems of childhood, ‘The little god,’ has had generous
  appreciation. The two plays of her last volume in literary style are
  similar to her moyen-age play, ‘Candle flame.’ Over all of them there
  is a glamor, a rhythmic beauty peculiar to her poetic prose.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:441 Ap ‘17 150w


=HOWARD, MARGARET WILLET.= Practical cookbook. 72c (2c) Ginn 641.5
17-11592

  “This book presents a rather large collection of tested and economical
  recipes, in such a manner as to show their relation to one another and
  to the whole question of balanced meals. ... The book has grown out of
  many years of classroom work, and the arrangement is designed, by
  omitting all unnecessary directions, to force the student to reason
  out the recipes for herself. But it is a cookbook, not a textbook, and
  laboratory directions and explanatory text are purposely omitted.”
  (Preface) The chapter headings will show the general arrangement:
  Water; Mineral salts; Starch; Sugar; Proteids; Fats and oils; Frozen
  desserts; Canning and preserving; Food for invalids; Unclassified
  recipes; Selection of food.


=HOWARD, WILLIAM LEE.= How to rest. *$1 (3c) Clode, E: J. 613.7 17-11348

  This little book on “food for tired nerves and weary bodies” aims “to
  aid in the prevention of brain fatigue, body weariness and nervous
  exhaustion.” (Foreword) Dr Howard does not “deal with or refer to real
  diseases of the brain and nerves—organic troubles, [but tries] to
  point out the many little symptoms showing the necessity of brain rest
  and nerve nourishment.” (Foreword) There is a chapter on “How to
  prevent nervousness in children.”


=HOWE, FREDERIC CLEMSON.= High cost of living. *$1.50 Scribner 338.5
17-29210

  “Early in the book, the reader is introduced to the outstanding facts
  bearing on the present problem—the rapid increase in the price of
  food, its stationary or decreasing gross production, the
  discouragement of farmers, the rural exodus, and the alarming relative
  increase in tenant-farming under conditions making for exhaustion of
  the soil, under-production and class division of society. ... The
  present emergency turns out to be no more than an accentuation under
  the stress of war of conditions brought about by causes which have
  long been operative in peace times. ... Some of Mr Howe’s
  recommendations are for organized collection and storage of farm
  produce under the control of state departments of markets and
  collective marketing; terminal markets owned by state or city, with
  adequate cold storage and refrigerator provision and public
  auctioneering under state control; local public abattoirs,
  municipalization of milk distribution or public milk-receiving
  stations delivering to local depots for retail sale over the counter,
  etc. ... All this is in addition to more fundamental changes which he
  advocates to free the access to land, such as land taxation, direction
  of immigrants, opening up of new farming areas, suppression of trading
  in futures and extension of rural credits.”—Survey

  “Most valuable and timely work.” Archibald Henderson

 *     + =Bookm= 46:468 D ‘17 2800w

  “Mr Howe has made one of the most important contributions to the
  subject ever offered. With his usual comprehensiveness he discusses
  with clearness and force every important phase of the situation.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 D 8 ‘17 210w

  “The student and serious reader will find this book a mine of valuable
  information representing progressive legislation.”

       + =Ind= 92:344 N 17 ‘17 300w

       + =Outlook= 117:433 N 14 ‘17 50w

  “Goes to the very root causes of the food crises. One does not need to
  be a student of economics to understand Mr Howe’s book.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:832 D ‘17 50w

     + — =Survey= 39:297 D 8 ‘17 580w


=HOWE, LUCIEN.= Universal military education and service; the Swiss
system for the United States. 2d ed il *$1.25 (5c) Putnam 355.07

  The first edition, issued in 1916, had chapters on: Why any
  preparation? What preparation is adequate? How shall we prepare? The
  Swiss and Australian systems; Military education already begun;
  Supposed disadvantages of universal military education; Advantages of
  universal military education to the nation; Advantages of universal
  military education to the individual; Military education—not
  training—of advantage to girls; But what if—? Conclusion. In the
  second edition brought out in 1917, there are no changes in the text.
  An appendix is added, bringing the book up to date.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:244 Mr ‘17

  “Whether one agrees with his opinions or not there is no gainsaying
  the fact that Mr Howe has expressed them with brevity, clearness and
  vigor.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:594 Ag ‘17 100w

         =Cleveland= p148 D ‘16 30w

  “Dr Lucien Howe has some definite notions on preparedness and
  expresses them with emphasis and directness.”

         =Educ R= 52:530 D ‘16 20w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:168 N ‘16

         =Pittsburgh= 22:219 Mr ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:139 My ‘17 10w


=HOWE, MRS SONIA ELIZABETH=, ed. False Dmitri; a Russian romance and
tragedy, described by British eyewitnesses, 1604-1612. il *$2.25 947
A17-978

  “An extremely interesting collection of reprints from contemporary
  reports bearing on the social and political revolution which convulsed
  Russia from 1598 to 1613, i.e. from the extinction of the old dynasty
  founded by Ivan Kalitá (1328-1341) till the election of that of the
  Románovs. In this period Dmitri or Demetrius, who claimed to be the
  son of Ivan the Terrible by his fifth wife, and actually reigned as
  tsar from 1605 to 1606 and was a most enlightened ruler, played a
  principal part. The book really forms a sort of appendix to the
  authoress’s ‘A thousand years of Russian history.’”—Eng Hist R

  “It is largely from narratives written by British residents in Moscow
  in the early years of the seventeenth century that her material is
  derived. These narratives are reproduced. While their archaic forms
  and methods of literary construction are somewhat taxing upon the
  patience of the modern reader, they do not fail to hold attention or
  to stir the reader’s emotions.” H. S. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 18 ‘16 200w

  “The collection has been ably arranged and edited, and contains some
  interesting contemporary portraits (incidentally, those of Boris
  Godunóv and Vasíli Shúiski are known to be purely fictitious) and
  illustrations, and forms a valuable addition to the growing number of
  books on Russian history.” N. F.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:152 Ja ‘17 200w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:15 Ja ‘17

  “Absorbingly interesting, a valuable book for the student.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:67 F 25 ‘17 600w

         =Spec= 117:242 Ag 26 ‘16 170w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p340 Jl 20 ‘16 1550w


=HOWE, MRS SONIA ELIZABETH.= Some Russian heroes, saints and sinners;
legendary and historical. il *$2.50 Lippincott 947 17-15658

  “‘Some Russian heroes, saints, and sinners’ supplies an interim study
  between legend and history. It would find its place between Mr
  Wilson’s song cycles and Mrs Howe’s earlier and more prosaic volume ‘A
  thousand years of Russian history.’ In our own life and literature the
  stories of Arthur and the Graal and Lancelot and Merlin, so little
  known to Russian readers, are of a legendary kind similar to the
  stories of Ilya Muromets and Sviatogor, which we are now beginning to
  know. ... Thus Mrs Howe gives Dmitri Donskoi, Alexander Nevski, Oleg
  the Wise, and other famous Russian characters and stories.”—The Times
  [London] Lit Sup

  “Bibliography (6p.).”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:443 Jl ‘17

  “The illustrations are rarely interesting. The quaint initial and tail
  pieces are from ancient Russian MSS. The plates are copies of famous
  historical paintings.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 6 ‘17 300w

  “Mrs Howe’s easy style makes her history eminently readable, while
  detracting naught from the scholarship evident in every sketch. A
  lover of Russia’s past, she makes no attempt to condone the evils and
  excesses of Russia’s sinners, nor to exaggerate the saintliness of her
  spiritual leaders. This balance of scholarship and restraint makes the
  book a genuine contribution to the growing mass of books on Russia.
  She is especially happy in her studies of Ivan the Terrible, the
  Boyaryinia Morozov and the False Dimitri.”

       + =Cath World= 105:834 S ‘17 460w

  “She has the gift of painting her characters with vividness, almost as
  if she had known them face to face.”

       + =Dial= 62:529 Je 14 ‘17 280w

  “Mrs Howe, a Russian woman married to an Englishman and resident now
  in England, has already given us two valuable books about her native
  land. ‘Some Russian heroes, saints and sinners’ is a study of
  permanent types in Russian character. The pictures of heroes, sinners,
  and saints are chronologically arranged.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:337 S 9 ‘17 650w

  “Very readable book.”

       + =Spec= 118:276 Mr 3 ‘17 100w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p562 N 23 ‘16 60w

  “The illustrative work being Russian is full of the Russian spirit,
  and helps immensely.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p607 D 14 ‘16 400w


=HOXIE, ROBERT FRANKLIN.= Trade unionism in the United States; with an
introd. by E. H. Downey. *$2.50 (3½c) Appleton 331.87 17-29740

  A book on trade unions that “fills a gap long since recognized in the
  treatment of labor problems. It does for America what Webb’s
  ‘Industrial democracy’ does for England, and more, for it excels all
  treatises in its masterly analysis of the psychology of wage-earners,
  as seen in the policies and methods of unions. Furthermore, Hoxie’s
  classification of unions for the first time brings out scientifically
  the great difference in unions, permits one to see the very complex
  character of the labor problems and warns against those sweeping
  generalizations that pretend to offer simple solutions. This leads the
  author to build up a truly constructive method of dealing with all
  labor problems according to the actual conditions.” (J: R. Commons)

  “As the first student of trade unionism who perceived that, besides
  varying in type as to organization or structure, labor groups have
  functional differences through which a clearer understanding of the
  phenomenon might be secured, the late Prof. Hoxie occupies a unique
  position in his particular ‘guild.’ A close study of the application
  of the theory inevitably clears thinking and results in a saner
  attitude toward the problem.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 80:132 Ja 17 ‘18 330w

  “It seems clear that Professor Hoxie had not yet found time to think
  out trade-union method in terms of his leading principle. It remains
  to be seen whether the conception will bear fruit in other hands.
  Apart from this novel fundamental idea, the book is interesting and
  suggestive. The glimpses of Professor Hoxie’s method as a teacher are
  peculiarly attractive and will deepen the sense of loss suffered
  through his early death.”

     + — =Nation= 105:696 D 20 ‘17 340w

  “It will be long before we have a better book to supersede it. For the
  qualities that distinguish Hoxie’s work are exceedingly rare in
  scholarship. Where other scholars strive earnestly to deal in
  certitudes, it was Hoxie’s zeal to preserve an open mind. His devotion
  to openmindedness is infectious.” Alvin Johnson

       + =New Repub= 13:319 Ja 12 ‘18 1650w

  “The value of a sympathetic attitude on the part of the investigator
  of an institution is seldom seen to greater advantage than in this
  important work, which will be indispensable to the student of labor
  conditions in America.”

       + =Outlook= 117:516 N 28 ‘17 80w

  “Even though he did not live to see his studies brought out in book
  form, the work unquestionably stands out as one of the most complete
  treatises on trade unionism in this country.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ja 18 ‘18 470w


=HUARD, FRANCES (WILSON) (MME CHARLES HUARD).= My home in the field of
mercy. il *$1.35 (2½c) Doran 940.91 17-29627

  Mme Huard here continues the story told in “My home on the field of
  honour” by describing the transformation of the Château de Villiers
  into “Annex No. 7,” a hospital for French wounded. After “ten days of
  shoveling out and burying the filth” that had been her “most cherished
  possessions,” she was cheered by the arrival of Mme Guix, the nurse,
  the sergeant-infirmier and his four assistants. Then the sick and
  wounded began to come in. We are told “how they were taken care of,
  healed, amused, humored, and set to work according to their capacity”;
  (N Y Times) how the number of beds was increased from 45 to 120, and
  typhoid patients, some in the worst stages of the disease, were taken
  in, and how Mme Huard made the trip to Soissons, then under fire, to
  get tobacco for her patients from Mme Macherez, who risked her life
  for Soissons when the Germans entered it. The episode of ten-year-old
  Elvire, “mad with a terrible remembered experience and shrieking at
  the sight of a man in uniform,” stands out unforgettably, as does also
  the picture of Mme Huard, driving off to Paris to have her appendix
  removed, cheered on by her helpers “all standing on the steps waving a
  fond adieu, and for want of something more appropriate shrieking ‘Vive
  la France!’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:123 Ja ‘18

  “The book is rather carelessly written but interesting and dramatic.”

     + — =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 60w

  “Her book is a wonderful record.”

       + =Lit D= 55:44 D 8 ‘17 130w

  “A book that is breathlessly interesting, full of fun in spite of all
  the danger and the tragedy, lightened with the most delicious pen
  pictures of the French poilu in all sorts of situations. ... It is a
  book worth having written and deeply worth the reading. The
  illustrations by Charles Huard are exquisite drawings, vignettes of
  battle scenes, characters in the story, visions of France as she looks
  today.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:492 N 25 ‘17 1100w

         =Outlook= 117:521 N 28 ‘17 40w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:826 D ‘17 50w

         =R of Rs= 57:101 Ja ‘18 90w

  “Mme Huard does not dwell on unpleasant details. With an American
  sense of humor—for she is the daughter of Francis Wilson, the
  comedian—and with also a touch of dramatic sense, she lightens her
  book with the quaint sayings and doings of the people around her.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 550w


=HUBBARD, GILBERT ERNEST.= From the gulf to Ararat; an expedition
through Mesopotamia and Kurdistan. il *$3.50 Dutton 915 (Eng ed 17-9114)

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “The author has incidentally furnished us with a careful description
  of those regions in Mesopotamia and Persia that have been fought over
  by the British, Russian, Turkish, and German armies.” W. G.
  Tinckom-Fernandez

       + =Dial= 63:394 Oct 25 ‘17 1150w

       + =N Y Times= 22:539 D 9 ‘17 80w


=HUDSON, CHARLES BENJAMIN.= Royal outlaw. *$1.50 (1½c) Dutton 17-17619

  This is the story of the early life of David, beginning with his
  flight from Saul, who tries to take David’s life, picturing his career
  as an outlaw, and ending with his coronation as king of Israel. The
  author has filled out the biblical outlines with incidents of his own
  imagination. “David is portrayed as a young man of quick temper and
  lightning decision, and as an extremely resourceful military
  commander.” (Springf’d Republican)

  “Delightfully human book ... portrays an interesting period in Hebrew
  history with accuracy and sympathy. It is a nice combination of Bible
  facts and the author’s fancy, a spirited tale of adventure and romance
  charmingly written.”

     + + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 15 ‘17 200w

  “Unfortunately, the author appears to have felt that to accomplish his
  purpose he must eliminate from the incomparable romance its inner
  significance. The hand with which he has removed the veil of symbolism
  was curiously maladroit and lacking in ordinary veneration for a
  literary masterpiece.”

       — =Cath World= 106:693 F ‘18 220w

     + — =Ind= 91:189 Ag 4 ‘17 50w

  “A perfectly corking story, without a single moral or sign of a moral
  about it. It is human, and not only credible, but almost convincing.
  David is a hero after the heart of men and women. ... It will make a
  thrilling film.” L: A. Walker

     + + =N Y Call= p15 Jl 8 ‘17 340w

  “As for adventures and perils and hairbreadth escapes and all manner
  of fighting, it would be hard to find more of them in any single novel
  that has been written in many a day. ... Humor enlivens the pages.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:265 Jl 15 ‘17 620w

  “A very interesting tale told with spirit and in close adherence to
  biblical facts. But the principal service it performs is to present
  David as a man with human passions as well as a writer of poetry.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 350w


=HUDSON, WILLIAM HENRY.= Crystal age; with an introd. by Clifford Smyth.
*$1.50 Dutton A17-174

  “The crystal age” was published in the eighties. An edition was
  brought out in America in 1907 and was reviewed in the Digest at that
  time. The present revival of interest in W. H. Hudson has called for a
  reprint. “In ‘A crystal age,’ the author visits and describes for us a
  no man’s land. It may be England, it may be South America, it may be
  any other country on the face of the globe. Its people and incidents
  may be of the past, the present or the future. As he himself describes
  his story, he has written in it ‘a dream and picture of the human race
  in its forest period.’ ... Although the country and the people of ‘A
  crystal age’ are obviously of mythical origin, they are visualized
  none the less vividly by Mr Hudson. We see them as they are, and their
  manners and customs are explicitly described. Over and around them
  all, however, is thrown a romantic glamour that is wholly Mr Hudson’s
  own.” (Boston Transcript)

         =A L A Bkl= 13:274 Mr ‘17

  “After reading one of Hudson’s books one feels toward him a personal
  debt so great that one can discharge some small part of it only by
  handing on to others the news of what he is and does.” F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 45:84 Mr ‘17 850w

  “It is of course easily discernible whence Mr Hudson drew his scheme
  for the social order of this strange gathering of men and women. A
  student of nature, he saw in the life of the bee a theme for the
  creation of a human community after their fashion, and he has
  therefore made ‘A crystal age’ a perfect analogy between the two. If
  we read it with that knowledge in view, we have a perfect scientific
  study; if we read it simply as a story, we have a narrative complete
  in substance and beautiful in form.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 3 ‘17 1400w

  “Hudson gives us ‘literary opium’ in its most delightful form, in
  words so musical that at times one almost forgets the sense.”

       + =Ind= 89:506 Mr 19 ‘17 150w

  “In the majority of Mr Hudson’s books—always excepting ‘Green
  mansions’—the naturalist seems more to the fore than the artist. Here
  the latter controls the former’s abundant wealth. Nature certainly
  serves as a well-known and well-loved background. ... Yet the striking
  thing is rather the artistic and dramatic unity of the volume: the
  unity of the story, which moves on, picking up anticipations, opening
  new vistas, down to its poignant close; and the consistency of the
  character development as seen in the invading Englishman, who quietly
  acquires a soul as the action progresses.”

       + =Nation= 104:340 Mr 22 ‘17 600w

  “W. H. Hudson is one of the very great writers of English.”

       + =N Y Times= 21:575 D 31 ‘16 800w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:649 O ‘17 90w

       + =R of Rs= 55:554 My ‘17 140w

  “Has too little story, and is too leisurely and too visionary for most
  novel readers, but both the subject and the fine style of its writing
  will endear it to some, especially those who liked ‘Green mansions.’”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 80w


=HUDSON, WILLIAM HENRY.= Idle days in Patagonia. il *$1.50 (2½c) Dutton
918.2 A17-394

  The author went out to Patagonia to make a study of its bird life. An
  accident shortly after his arrival rendered him quite helpless for a
  time and limited the field of his researches. But out of the idle days
  which resulted from his change of plans grew these sketches, perhaps
  more intimate because of their narrower range. He writes of Life in
  Patagonia; Snow, and the quality of whiteness; Bird music in South
  America; Sight in savages, etc. The book was published some years ago
  by D. Appleton and company, but has been out of print.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:364 My ‘17

  “Its charm, as in everything Mr Hudson writes, is varied, and it
  appeals to the reader through his understanding of nature, through his
  reflections upon the lives of men and beasts as he encounters them,
  through his many interpolated anecdotes, through his visualization of
  everything he sees, and through the grace of a remarkable and
  unpretentious English style. Its manner is no less attractive than its
  substance.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 14 ‘17 1000w

       + =Cath World= 105:404 Je ‘17 140w

       + =Ind= 91:33 Jl 7 ‘17 140w

       + =Nation= 104:526 My 3 ‘17 1000w

  Reviewed by Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p15 My 20 ‘17 220w

  “Full of exquisite prose-poetry, of careful observation, of keen, live
  interest in all the life of those ‘idle’ days.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:95 Mr 18 ‘17 770w

       + =R of Rs= 55:555 My ‘17 80w

  “The total effect of the book is something the same as if John
  Burroughs and Joseph Conrad had collaborated—and in a field almost of
  Conrad’s choice.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 14 ‘17 900w

  “The chapter which especially caught my attention in the ‘Idle days in
  Patagonia,’ as it probably has that of most readers of the book, was
  the thirteenth.” Arthur Colton

       + =Yale R= n s 6:856 Jl ‘17 1350w


=HUESTON, ETHEL.= Sunny slopes. il *$1.40 (2½c) Bobbs 17-22006

  Excepting Connie, the daughters of the parsonage are now all married,
  and in this volume Connie finds her way through her literary ventures
  to a cowboy husband. Connie was always the “different” one of the
  family. But Connie’s affairs are only incidental to the main thread of
  the story which is concerned with gay little Carol, now the wife of a
  Presbyterian minister and his mainstay while he fights tuberculosis in
  New Mexico and Colorado. “It is in New Mexico that they see the ‘sunny
  slopes’ of the mesas and learn to fight the battle for cheerfulness,
  to keep in the sunshine and avoid the shadows.” (N Y Times)

  “Simple, a trifle sentimental and will be popular.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:26 O ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:326 S 2 ‘17 280w

  “In spite of the story’s sad trend, it is the reverse of gloomy.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 290w


=HUGHES, JAMES LAUGHLIN.= Training the children. *60c Barnes 173
17-10692

  Seven brief chapters on the training of children thru self activity.
  Thruout, the author contrasts this new idea of training with the old
  idea of coercion and repression. He writes of: The child’s achieving
  tendencies; Training through doing; Negative and positive training;
  Coercion; The child’s need of freedom; The “bad” boy; Some common
  mistakes of the old training. The author was for many years chief
  inspector of schools in Toronto. He is author also of “Mistakes in
  teaching,” “Teaching to read,” etc.

  “Here in a tiny volume, entirely within the means of any one, so far
  as cash or time value to be expended is concerned, we find just such a
  clear exposition of the eternal principles of education and the
  relative values of free activity and development contrasted with ‘the
  negative and coercive ideal’ of old times, as we long to inject into
  the consciousness of that great majority of adults who, as Dr Hughes
  aptly says, no longer defend harsh methods of disciplining children,
  but still retain their faith in the old ideal.” J. L. Hunt

       + =Survey= 38:575 S 29 ‘17 480w


=HUGHES, RUPERT.= In a little town. il *$1.35 (1c) Harper 17-8348

  The author’s earlier books have been novels of city life. This is a
  book of small town stories. The author, however, staunchly protests
  against the idea that there is any essential difference between a big
  town and a small one. “A village is simply a quiet street in the big
  city of the world. Quaint, sweet happenings take place in the avenues
  most thronged, and desperate events come about in sleepy lanes. People
  are people, chance is chance.” The scene of the stories is close to
  the Mississippi. The titles are: Don’t you care! Pop; Baby talk; The
  mouth of the gift horse; The old folks at home; And this is marriage;
  The man that might have been; The happiest man in Ioway; Prayers;
  Pain; The beauty and the fool; The ghostly counselors; Daughters of
  Shiloh; “A” as in “father.”

  “Clever, often amusing, and often keen.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:403 Je ‘17

  “It is only that Mr Hughes is at times banal and even cheap in his
  style, and he is surely inexcusably flippant; it is that we must
  resent the lack of distinction in writing where the matter cries aloud
  for sincerity and dignity. The collection is much too good not to be
  very much better. As it stands, it is always thoroughly readable, and
  often extremely diverting.”

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 2 ‘17 370w

  “The promise is not fulfilled. The stories contain excellent material,
  hastily handled. These cheerful, ordinary, humanly vulgar folk fail to
  arouse interest because their creator writes of them but not for them.
  They are crude snapshots rather than artistic photographs. ‘And this
  is marriage’ strikes the highest note.”

     – + =Dial= 62:402 My 3 ‘17 120w

       + =Ind= 90:471 Je 9 ‘17 120w

  “The effect is of artifice, of ‘well-made’ plots and character in the
  sense of the stage rather than of the art which interprets. In short,
  they are of the magazine formula, and of little account on other
  grounds.”

       — =Nation= 104:633 My 24 ‘17 280w

  “Mr Hughes’s collection of fourteen short stories all have their
  scenes laid in imaginary small towns in the region round about the
  city of Keokuk, Iowa, a region familiar to his youth.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:93 Mr 18 ‘17 380w

  “Almost without exception the stories are diverting in high degree.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 430w

  “Not very cheerful on the whole, but well done.”

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 30w


=HUGHES, RUPERT.= We can’t have everything. il *$1.50 (1c) Harper
17-22299

  Kedzie Thropp came from a little Missouri town to visit New York with
  her parents. She ran away from them and began her career by getting a
  job in a candy-store. Later, she tried Greek dancing and the movies.
  Her first marriage venture was with Tommie Gilfoyle, an advertising
  man, her second with Jim Dyckman, one of the richest men in New York
  society, and her third with the Marquess of Strathdene. Kedzie, the
  social climber, greedy for all the material good that life can give,
  is contrasted with Charity Coe Cheever, a woman of assured position in
  society, who was also divorced and re-married.

  “Kedzie is the one person in the story in whom we more or less
  believe. As for the others, the more strokes the artist puts into
  their portraits, the less clearly we see them. ... The truth is, Mr
  Hughes has again, in the thin disguise of a story-teller, taken the
  floor to have his say about something. ... The book is an argument in
  favour of tolerably easy divorce, with a laboriously arranged exhibit
  of what decent people may suffer under the present laws of New York
  state. If the believer could only have embodied his belief in his
  story! Unluckily, it is only too clear that his idea and not his
  people interests him.” H. W. Boynton

       — =Bookm= 46:210 O ‘17 960w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 46:339 N ‘17 50w

  “In the end the reader isn’t sure just who is married. The whole, in
  its sly sex-suggestiveness and apparent frankness about ostensibly
  vital problems, is quite characteristic of Rupert Hughes.”

       — =Dial= 63:463 N 8 ‘17 110w

  “The book has a story to tell, but the narrator appears to be in at
  least two minds as to what it is all about. Under these conditions
  there can be no story pure and simple. At best it is a piece of
  satirical comedy in an elaborate New York setting; we recognize the
  scene, we marvel at the effectiveness of the lighting and authenticity
  of the costumes. Unluckily, we also recognize the plot and personæ,
  less as ‘from the life’ than as from the stockroom of recent fiction.”

     – + =Nation= 105:370 O 4 ‘17 470w

  “Kedzie is a Rupert Hughes version of a vampire, very beautiful, very
  modern, very resourceful and capable in adapting herself to
  surroundings and blooming out afresh with each new possibility of
  progress. The story comes down to the present and takes in the recent
  welcome of New York to the French mission.”

         =N Y Times= 22:311 Ag 26 ‘17 660w

  “Rupert Hughes requires 637 closely printed pages to find the way to
  happiness for Jim Dyckman and Charity Coe. It could have been found by
  a shorter route and without sacrificing a single essential of the
  story. ... The author’s flow of satirical, and often flippant, humor,
  is more diverting than his exposé of odoriferous social morals,
  though, needless to say, this is done with Mr Hughes’s grasp of
  character and sense of atmosphere.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 16 ‘17 300w


=HUGINS, ROLAND.= Possible peace; a forecast of world politics after the
great war. *$1.25 (3½c) Century 327 16-23057

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:306 Ap ‘17

  “A judicial and admirably dispassionate survey of the unfolding of
  recent European history, culminating in the war, with discussion of
  its significance for us and its possible influence upon our future.”
  F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 45:182 Ap ‘17 450w

         =Ind= 89:320 F 19 ‘17 160w

  “The author develops his theses with candor and intelligence. The book
  is not exactly inspiriting, but it is wholesome reading in an epoch in
  which partisan interpretations and pragmatic conclusions make up the
  bulk of the literature on international affairs.”

       + =New Repub= 10:52 F 10 ‘17 350w

  “His volume is one of the sanest that the war has produced and
  deserves to rank for its calm, judicial temper, its loyalty to truth,
  and its illuminative thought with G. Lowes Dickinson’s ‘European
  anarchy’ and Fried’s ‘Restoration of Europe,’ while not even Romain
  Rolland’s ‘Above the battle,’ although more passionate in its longing
  and more inspired in its utterance, is more earnestly and
  single-heartedly desirous of the ending of the war and the
  establishment of a more enlightened understanding of one another among
  the peoples of the earth. So clear and fair and free from all
  prejudice is Mr Hugins’s marshaling of the facts of recent history and
  so strictly just his interpretation that his book, along with that by
  Mr Dickinson—for the two admirably supplement each other—ought to be
  put on the supplementary reading courses of modern history classics in
  universities and colleges.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:34 F 4 ‘17 530w


=HULL, ARTHUR EAGLEFIELD.=[2] Great Russian tone-poet, Scriabin.
(Library of music and musicians.) il *$1.25 Dutton 17-11131

  “Dr Eaglefield Hull devotes his book chiefly to an analysis of
  Scriabin’s works, both for the pianoforte and for orchestra. The
  pianoforte works comprise preludes, études, nocturnes, etc., a
  concerto and ten sonatas; the orchestral three symphonies, the ‘Poem
  of ecstasy’ and ‘Prometheus.’ There is a brief biography, preceded by
  the inevitable exposition of the musical awakening in Russia. ... The
  mystery of Scriabin’s new scales and new chords is expounded. ... In
  appendices are lists of his works, each with a brief descriptive
  paragraph. There is a list of Russian and other names.”—N Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:84 D ‘17

  “The author’s style is often confused, and troublesome to the reader.
  The thought in a book is the test; and this volume comes off well in
  that respect.”

     + — =Ath= p588 D ‘16 320w

  “Whether one reads to damn or praise, the value of Dr Hull’s
  commentary must be recognized.” Russell Ramsey

       + =Dial= 64:21 Ja 3 ‘18 1500w

  “Dr Hull’s comments are intelligent, granting the point of view; and
  his book should be valuable to the followers of the new and to any who
  wish to know the new.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:479 N 18 ‘17 410w

  “We are more grateful for the matter than for the manner of this
  book.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p571 N 30 ‘16 970w


=HUMPHREY, SETH KING.= Mankind. *$1.50 (4c) Scribner 575.6 17-24251

  A treatise on racial values and the racial prospect. It presents the
  subject untechnically in its broad social aspect with a view to
  awakening in the lay reader an appreciation of the fundamental part
  played in human affairs by inborn racial quality. He examines racial
  tendencies as factors in human progress, views the race values of the
  countries at war, shows the necessity of a eugenic system at work in
  the world that shall effectively cut off the increase of downright
  human unfitness and forecasts an era when hereditary defects among
  enlightened peoples are wiped out as a preparatory period to one that
  shall legitimately insure adequate perpetuation of only superior
  inheritances.

  “An interesting study, vigorous in expression and noteworthy for the
  laudable independence of the thinking.” Archibald Henderson

       + =Bookm= 46:275 N ‘17 650w

  “This book overlooks entirely the economic interpretation of history,
  the influence of social heredity in calling out the potentialities
  which for all we know may lie dormant in every individual. The
  writer’s opinion of woman is influenced by his conception of her value
  as a means of transmitting a valuable trait down the family line.
  Other chapters on The nations at war, The immigration problem and The
  negro all show themselves tinged by dogmatism and the same narrow
  point of view.” A. E. Watson

       — =Survey= 39:445 Ja 19 ‘18 510w


=HUMPHREY, ZEPHINE (MRS WALLACE WEIR FAHNESTOCK).= Grail fire. *$1.50
(2c) Dutton 17-8347

  The story of a young man’s search for religious peace of mind. Francis
  Merwin is the son of a man who is an agnostic and a woman who is a
  strict Puritan. His mother’s narrow Protestantism seems to him barren
  and meaningless, and yet he demands something that his father,
  beauty-loving pagan that he is, cannot give him. In Eleanor Ramsey he
  finds a companion who sympathizes with him. Together they study the
  doctrines of the Roman Catholic church, finding themselves repelled by
  its hard and fast dogmas, altho emotionally it seems to offer what
  they seek. Finally they discover the Catholic branch of the Episcopal
  church and in it find the answer to all their doubts and questions.
  Francis, altho his mother and father are both hurt by his choice,
  studies for the ministry. Eleanor remains true to him, even tho it
  seems for a time that his priestly ideals will demand the renunciation
  of personal happiness.

  “‘Grail fire’ barely convinces. ... Those with tendencies towards
  mysticism will find the novel attractive. The average reader will be
  somewhat repelled because of its lack of vitality. Without question it
  is both carefully written and sincere in feeling.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 25 ‘17 190w

  “The author must be totally devoid of all sense of humor, for her
  description of Father Merwin’s first mass with his sweetheart acolyte,
  and his motley congregation of Jews, Italians and Irish is ludicrous
  in the extreme.”

       — =Cath World= 105:263 My ‘17 200w

  “A very charming, if somewhat illogical book. ... Although ‘Grail
  fire’ may be a bit too idealistic for the average mortal, we predict
  that all the sixteen-year-olds in the land will find it absolutely
  true to life.”

     + — =Dial= 62:402 My 3 ‘17 170w

  “Despite its theological thesis she has written a novel of vital human
  interest, which even a casual reader will hardly lay aside until the
  end is reached.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:125 Ap 8 ‘17 380w


=HUMPHREYS, ELIZA M. J. (GOLLAN) (MRS W. DESMOND HUMPHREYS) (RITA,
pseud.).= Rubbish heap. *$1.40 (1c) Putnam 17-13182

  A half French nephew who comes to disturb the Victorian propriety and
  solitude of two maiden aunts, and a little Irish waif brought home by
  a sea captain to be a companion to his wife, are characters in this
  story. Christopher, whose artistic tastes and temperament are so
  puzzling to Miss Augusta and Miss Jane, discovers little Mara and
  paints her against the background of the curio shop that is her home.
  The attic of this shop, with its heaped up treasure, proves the means
  of solving the mystery of the little girl, and shows that between her
  and Christopher there exists a strange relationship.

  “A fairly pretty story tho not very convincing.”

     – + =Lit D= 55:34 Ag 18 ‘17 170w

         =Nation= 105:40 Jl 12 ‘17 200w

  “An ingenious little story and well written, although the coincidences
  are too numerous to be altogether credible.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:202 My 20 ‘17 280w


=HUMPHREYS, FRANCIS LANDON.= Life and times of David Humphreys,
1752-1818. 2v il *$7.50 Putnam 17-8099

  A biography that takes us back to the American revolution. David
  Humphreys, soldier, statesman, poet and manufacturer, was termed by
  one of his contemporaries the “belov’d of Washington.” “It may safely
  be said,” says the author, “that as it is impossible to write the life
  of Humphreys without including a large part of the life of Washington,
  so it is almost as impossible to write fully of the career of
  Washington without presenting, in large measure at least, the life of
  Humphreys.” The biography is based in part on the Humphreys and
  Washington correspondence, now in the manuscript department of the
  Library of Congress. As a manufacturer Humphreys has a present-day
  interest as founder of the woolen industry in this country.

  “An extremely detailed biography; not a brilliant book, but a work
  which will be useful for reference. The illustrations and the index
  deserve a word of commendation.”

       + =Ath= p365 Jl ‘17 120w

  “A casual reader with endless time will find in them much of
  miscellaneous interest, and the scholar may make use of them by means
  of the excellent index. Except for one or two slips that may be
  chargeable to the printer the work seems accurate and scholarly.”

     + — =Dial= 63:462 N 8 ‘17 550w

  “There is, in this varied and useful career, much that is typical of
  the lives men led in our heroic age. Perhaps for that reason the
  biographer has yielded to the temptation to be at times, out of the
  wealth of his material, a little superfluous in his account of
  well-known events. In spite of the attempt of the biographer to make
  him out a hero, Humphreys is most interesting as a representative man
  who deserved either a shorter or a more vivid biography than has
  fallen to his lot.”

     + — =Nation= 105:455 O 25 ‘17 1350w

  “Although he has made considerable use of Colonel Humphreys’s
  correspondence with Washington which is preserved in the Library of
  Congress, the author has been somewhat sparing in direct quotation
  therefrom. Whenever he has done so it is very readable, especially the
  long reports to President Washington from Spain and Portugal.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:200 My 20 ‘17 750w

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 150w

         =R of Rs= 55:667 Je ‘17 60w

  “This biography is singularly opportune, and should find many readers
  on this side of the Atlantic.”

 *     + =Spec= 118:62 Jl 21 ‘17 1100w

  “The book is well produced and illustrated, and is a useful
  contribution to American history, particularly that of the period from
  the close of the Revolution to the adoption of the present
  constitution. It is, however, too long; its contents could easily and
  better have been compressed into a single volume. Some of the text is
  much the same as can be found in an ordinary book of history, and many
  of Col. Humphreys’s letters have but faint interest for the reading
  public of to-day.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 28 ‘17 650w

  “A biography so constructed inevitably falls between the two stools of
  biography proper and what the French call ‘Mémoires pour servir.’ ‘It
  is to be noted,’ says the biographer, ‘that very little of Humphreys’s
  correspondence is published in these two volumes.’ And yet there is
  too much. His private correspondence is excellent—full of shrewd
  observation, terse description, and keen political insight. But his
  public correspondence belongs to a different category, that of
  history, not of biography.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p280 Je 14 ‘17 2050w

  “Here is a subject for a valuable and interesting biography, and in
  its preparation there is evidence of persistent scholarship. The
  records are closely read. The background of historical events,
  doubtless, is drawn with fidelity to fact. And yet this biography is
  not interesting.” C: S. Brooks

     – + =Yale R= n s 7:437 Ja ‘18 1000w


=HUNEKER, JAMES GIBBONS.= Unicorns. *$1.75 (2c) Scribner 814 17-25117

  These thirty essays, copyrighted from 1906 to 1917, deal with Edward
  MacDowell, Remy de Gourmont, Artzibashef, Henry James, George Sand,
  Cézanne, Brahms, Huysmans, W. H. Mallock, James Joyce, Oscar Wilde,
  Chopin, George Moore, and Richard Wagner; also with such subjects as
  Style and rhythm in English prose; A synthesis of the seven arts;
  Pillow-land; Cross-currents in modern French literature; Violinists
  now and yesteryear; Prayers for the living, etc. The title essay, In
  praise of unicorns, takes the unicorn as “the symbol of fantasy and
  intellectual freedom.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:86 D ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p7 O 24 ‘17 750w

         =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 50w

  “It is all in the same manner, obligingly informative and genially
  casual. It has the compactness of pemmican. It is guaranteed by the
  authority of great names, and shows an agile intellect dovetailing
  epigrams. Mr Huneker has never escaped from the blight of cleverness
  that characterized the nineties. ... His great merit is that he has
  banished solemnity and cant; he talks about books because he loves
  them, and there isn’t an ounce of pedantry in his whole nature.” G: B.
  Donlin

     + — =Dial= 63:344 O 11 ‘17 1400w

  “Would it be unkind to intimate that he is writing, or at least
  publishing, in 1917 and not in 1897, and that the world has grown, for
  terrible reasons, rather weary of trifling with morality?”

     – + =Nation= 105:402 O 11 ‘17 980w

  “After all that he has done for us, it seems a little ungrateful to be
  bored with ‘Unicorns.’ Mr Huneker remains a brilliant journalist,
  instead of developing into an American critic who would respond to the
  large currents and counter-currents with an individual competence of
  appreciation.” R. B.

     – + =New Repub= 13:130 D 1 ‘17 830w

  “Mr Huneker is always brilliant. He is always worth reading. But this
  collection of essays is more personal than anything else that he has
  done, and we are not sure that it is not more charming.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:416 O 21 ‘17 820w

  “Mr Huneker is amiable, effervescent, always companionable, and in his
  disdainful talk about ‘conventional morality’ and the like shows none
  of the hauteur of the modern intellectual egoist who usually uses such
  phrases. For a time he was our most implacable ‘modern,’ but that
  distinction, no longer undivided, has passed to a less worthy and less
  likeable crew.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p10 O 19 ‘17 780w


=HUNGERFORD, EDWARD.= Railroad problem. il $1.50 (2c) McClurg 385
17-10892

  The railroad is characterized by the author as “the great sick man of
  the American business family.” He says, “Just at this time, owing to
  the extraordinary and abnormal prosperity that has come to the United
  States, largely because of the great war in Europe, he [the railroad]
  has rallied temporarily. But his illness continues, far too
  deep-seated to be thrown off in a moment. And the recent extraordinary
  legislation passed by Congress has done nothing to alleviate the
  condition of the sufferer. On the contrary, it has been a great
  aggravation.” In the author’s opinion great opportunities for
  development lie before the railroad system of the United States, and
  his purpose, after discussing the present situation and its causes, is
  to point out the course that it must follow if it is to continue as a
  privately owned institution. The problems of labor are given five
  chapters. Other chapters discuss: The railroad and national defense;
  The necessity of the railroad; Regulation. In part the material of the
  book has appeared in Collier’s, Every Week and the Saturday Evening
  Post.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:6 O ‘17

         =Cleveland= p96 Jl ‘17 30w

  “The good red blood of human life runs all through the book. Even the
  serious student of the railroad problem may profit by its perusal, for
  it helps to humanize the whole situation.”

       + =Dial= 63:398 O 25 ‘17 200w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:758 N ‘17 30w

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:215 Jl ‘17 40w


=HURGRONJE, CHRISTIAAN SNOUCK.= Revolt in Arabia. *75c (2c) Putnam 953
17-7479

  A translation of articles that appeared in a Dutch newspaper in July,
  1916. Announcement had just come of a revolt in Arabia against Turkish
  rule. Professor Hurgronje’s purpose was to supply the historical
  background for an understanding of such an event. The book has a
  foreword by Richard J. H. Gottheil of Columbia university, and a
  translation of the proclamation of the Shereef of Mecca is added as an
  appendix.

  “This brief account of the revolt and of the general situation is
  admirably lucid, and so is the chapter explaining the impropriety,
  according to Mohammedan law, of the assumption of the title of Caliph
  by the Sultan of Turkey. It will help western readers to understand
  questions that are to most of them obscure.”

       + =Ath= p530 O ‘17 100w

  “Though we must agree with Prof. Snouck Hurgronje that the Sherifate
  of Mecca, acting alone, is a negligible quantity in the great war,
  Arabia, considered as a whole, can undoubtedly become an important
  factor in its course and its consequential bearing on Near Eastern
  problems.”

       + =Nation= 104:711 Je 14 ‘17 1600w

         =N Y Times= 22:174 Ap 29 ‘17 200w

         =St Louis= 15:186 Je ‘17 20w

  “A most instructive little book. The author condemns the attempt of
  the Young Turks, under German influence, to revive the Caliphate,
  ‘playing with the fire of religious hate.’ He regards the Shereef’s
  revolt as ‘a master stroke,’ in reply to this pernicious scheme, which
  has happily failed in the great Mohammedan countries and is now
  rejected in Mecca itself.”

       + =Spec= 119:247 S 8 ‘17 1350w

  “The author is professor of Arabic in the University of Leiden,
  Holland. As he also dwelt for some time in Mecca he has been able to
  get a good insight into the hopes and aspirations of the followers of
  the prophet. The little work is of value for the light it throws on
  one of the side issues of the war.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 1 ‘17 90w

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p377 Ag 9 ‘17 1350w


=HURLEY, EDWARD NASH.=[2] Awakening of business. *$2 (4c) Doubleday 380
16-24342

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:297 Ap ‘17

  “In popular, almost journalistic form, the newer point of view as to
  the relation between government and business is set forth. A valuable
  chapter on the work of the trade commission shows how the commission
  prevents law suits. The author is optimistic and singularly devoid of
  that fear of calamity from either foreign competition or government
  oppression which permeates the writings and addresses of the older
  school. His attention is taken up less with ‘grave perils’ than with
  means of strengthening and expanding business prosperity.” J. T. Y.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:236 Jl ‘17 250w

  “This book by the former chairman of the Federal trade commission,
  exhibits those ideas which have given him nation-wide fame. But the
  careful thinker will not be able to avoid the inference that with all
  his apparent clearness of thought he has some of those heresies that
  have made Frank A. Vanderlip term us ‘a nation of economic
  illiterates.’ The author discusses the Sherman law in a sane way and
  explains the attitude of the Federal trade commission. At the close of
  the book the act under which the commission was formed and a part of
  the Clayton act are published. The book is interesting from cover to
  cover. Hurley’s meaning is always clear and his ideas always clever.”

     + — =Coal Age= 11:641 Ap 7 ‘17 1250w


=HURST, ARTHUR F.= Medical diseases of the war. *$1.75 Longmans 616

  “Dr Hurst discusses certain common diseases in the war, such as trench
  fever, dysentery and paratyphoid, and shows how infections received at
  this time may linger and revive through many years in other forms.”
  (Survey) “The first chapter is devoted to the functional nervous
  disorders of which so many varieties have been met with during the
  war. Among these are classed cases of shell shock, neurasthenia,
  hysteria, and psychasthenia.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

  Reviewed by Gertrude Seymour

         =Survey= 39:170 N 17 ‘17 80w

  “It is a valuable addition to the medical literature of the war.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p4 Ja 4 ‘17 400w


=HUSBAND, JOSEPH.= Story of the Pullman car. il *$1.50 (6½c) McClurg 656
17-15079

  The story of the Pullman car is told in the following chapters: The
  birth of railroad transportation; The evolution of the sleeping car;
  The rise of a great industry; The Pullman car in Europe; The survival
  of the fittest; The town of Pullman; Inventions and improvements; How
  the cars are made; The operation of the Pullman car. One aspect of the
  subject is not touched on, the labor disturbances that have attended
  the development of the industry. The illustrations, which include
  reproductions of cartoons made in the early days of the sleeping car,
  are interesting.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:46 N ‘17

  “The majority of people know in a vague way about the town of Pullman
  and the immense size of this industry, and these exact details of the
  various inventions and improvements which bring about the comfort and
  luxury of present day travel make an interesting and instructive
  book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 12 ‘17 130w

         =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 30w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:819 D ‘17 20w


=HUSIK, ISAAC.= History of mediaeval Jewish philosophy. *$3 (2c)
Macmillan 181 16-21233

  At the suggestion of the Jewish publication society the author has
  undertaken to write a “history of mediaeval Jewish rationalistic
  philosophy in one volume—a history that will appeal alike to the
  scholar and the intelligent non-technical reader.” He points out that
  no such work exists in any language, and that in English, Jewish
  philosophy in general is barely touched. This work then seems to fill
  a gap in the history of philosophy. A general introduction is followed
  by chapters devoted to eighteen mediaeval philosophers. Bibliography,
  notes, list of Biblical and rabbinic passages, and index complete the
  book. The author is assistant professor of philosophy in the
  University of Pennsylvania.

  “The author shows his ability to do pioneer work of this type by the
  skill with which he handles the obscure and intricate subtleties of
  his theme. He deals exhaustively with mediaeval Jewish rationalism but
  omits all reference to mysticism or the Kabbaka.”

       + =Ind= 91:136 Jl 28 ‘17 60w

  “Those familiar with the scattered, obscure, and unintelligible
  material with which Dr Husik had to cope, can best appreciate the
  value of his excellent work. He has transformed a literary chaos into
  a systematic presentation, accessible to the modern reader. His study
  of the texts is deep and thorough; and his clear, simple, and concise
  style stands in contrast with the obscure interpretations in German.”
  N. H. Adlerblum

     + — =J Philos= 15:22 Ja 3 ‘18 1600w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:188 D ‘16

  “Most scholarly and illuminating work.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:554 N ‘17 160w

  “Dr Husik deliberately restricts his scope to the medieval Jewish
  rationalism. Within these limits Dr Husik has written a good book. ...
  He has the two qualifications necessary for his main task. He has a
  real control of the technique of metaphysics and an independent
  knowledge of the Greek, Hebrew, and Arabic materials. The skilful
  exercise of these qualifications has resulted in a notable addition to
  the history of philosophy.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p32 Ja 18 ‘17 1150w


=HUTCHINGS, MRS EMILY GRANT.= Jap Herron; a novel written from the ouija
board; with an introd. The coming of Jap Herron. il *$1.50 (3c)
Kennerley 17-28757

  The sponsors of this story, Emily Grant Hutchings and Lola V. Hays,
  seem to be convinced that Mark Twain spelled out the tale to them on
  the ouija board. “Emily Grant Hutchings, who writes the introductory
  account of how it all happened, is from Hannibal, Mo., the home of
  Mark Twain’s boyhood, and in her the alleged spirit of the author
  seems to have put much confidence.” (N Y Times) “Jap Herron is the son
  of the local drunkard of a village somewhere in Missouri. After his
  father’s death and his mother’s remarriage ‘to another bum,’ Jap runs
  away and strays into Bloomtown and the printing office of the Herald.
  The editor, Ellis Hinton, has already worked and starved himself to
  the verge of consumption. ... Jap appoints himself assistant, which
  means chiefly the sharing of Hinton’s thankless toil and pitiful fare.
  The two become devoted to each other; a good third is added them in
  the son of the village skinflint, and, later, a fourth in the angelic
  middle-aged Flossy, who marries Hinton and mothers them all. It is
  Hinton’s dream that Jap shall grow up to be what he himself has wished
  to be, a power for righteousness in the community. Jap does: we leave
  him secure in the esteem and leadership of a rejuvenated Bloomtown.”
  (Bookm)

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       — =Bookm= 46:208 O ‘17 520w

         =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 90w

         =Dial= 63:597 D 6 ‘17 200w

  “A good deal of the detail does ‘sound like Mark’—as an echo sounds
  like a voice. The ‘lay-out’ of the tale is natural enough, too, its
  setting in a little Missouri town, with the village printing office as
  its closer scene. But that is all. It is a tale of voluptuous domestic
  sentiment and pathos, with morbid emphasis (strange as coming from a
  freed spirit!) upon the pathos of death. ... It is a woman’s story of
  a notably ‘slushy’ type. Its roughness, its Twainish flavor, are
  external and occasional. Its people are unreal; when they do not
  remember to talk like Mark Twain, they talk like a best-seller.”

       — =Nation= 105:223 Ag 30 ‘17 550w

  “The story is short and snappy. ... There are spots of undoubted
  brilliance. The pathos is much in evidence, and there is a lot of
  slapstick comedy. ... At its worst, it could be called a decent parody
  of Mark Twain.” Clement Wood

     – + =N Y Call= p14 S 2 ‘17 230w

     – + =N Y Times= 22:336 S 9 ‘17 500w


=HUTCHINSON, ROBERT H.= Socialism of New Zealand. *$1 New review pub.
335 16-14591

  “Like Mr Walling, the author would apply the term ‘state capitalism’
  to the social experiments of New Zealand; and says, with much truth,
  that they are designed largely for the benefit of the small farmers
  and shopkeepers, and that the result has been to entrench capitalism
  more strongly than ever in the affections of the middle class. The
  ‘Lib-Lab’ alliance, which controlled New Zealand politics for so many
  years under Ballance, Seddon, and Ward, has reached the limit of its
  power, and now the small farmers and capitalists, under the leadership
  of Massey and the so-called ‘Reform party,’ show reactionary
  tendencies, while the labor leaders and socialists are breaking away
  from the old entanglements to take a new and more radical path, where
  true progress lies. ... The experience of New Zealand, as Mr
  Hutchinson says, indicates the lines of development which the United
  States is likely to take in the near future.”—Am Econ R

  “While this little book gives few unfamiliar facts about New Zealand,
  it is important in that it shows the point of view of a socialist who
  has spent a year or more in that country and who wishes to ‘dispel the
  prevalent idea that her progressive institutions have in any way
  solved the problems of capital and labor.’ ... Mr Hutchinson’s book is
  very readable, and shows an intimate knowledge of the subject. Here
  and there one might cavil at his argument.” J. E. LeRossignol

       + =Am Econ R= 7:176 Mr ‘17 370w

  “The book is not a technical treatise, but a brief simple work for the
  general reader, and is both readable and instructive.” G. S. Dow

       + =Am J Soc= 22:414 N ‘16 430w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:689 O ‘17 60w

         =Springf’d Republican= p5 Jl 18 ‘16 170w

         =Survey= 37:673 Mr 10 ‘17 70w


=HUTTEN ZUM STOLZENBERG, BETTINA (RIDDLE) freifrau von.= Mag Pye. *$1.50
Appleton 17-4712

  “This new story by the Baroness von Hutten is, first and foremost, a
  tale of mystery. There is the mystery of Mag’s mother, and the even
  greater mystery of Bettany’s disappearance, and several minor secrets
  connected more or less closely with these two principal ones. Victor
  Quest, the briefless, or almost briefless, barrister, learned about
  them all after a while, and it is Victor Quest who tells the
  story. ... Although the tale ends in the year 1916, the war is but
  lightly touched upon, with just a glimpse or two of the opinions of
  various persons as to the relations of England and Germany before
  August, 1914.”—N Y Times

  “Told in a quiet, reflective manner with good characterizations.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:316 Ap ‘17

  “The novel is pleasing and wholesome.”

       + =Ath= p102 F ‘17 60w

  “A story of graceful humour and unforced sentiment, at its weakest
  where it bothers with plot.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:314 My ‘17 300w

  “The novel stands in that host of good, but uninspired, middle-class
  English fiction.”

       + =Dial= 62:314 Ap 5 ‘17 100w

       + =Lit D= 54:1855 Je 16 ‘17 280w

  “As with De Morgan the apparently careless and haphazard manner of its
  telling veils an adroit and intricate method. ... It is a very
  graceful and skilful story.”

       + =Nation= 104:432 Ap 12 ‘17 340w

       + =N Y Times= 22:74 Mr 4 ‘17 350w

  “Not by any means the author’s best work. The plot is improbable and
  mechanical. Mag herself is a natural and charming girl.”

     – + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 20w

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 280w

  “The Baroness von Hutten is far too well trained a writer to drop into
  futility, but she is capable of unreality and of dullness. ... The
  story may satisfy the sentimental, but it is unconscionably long.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p82 F 15 ‘17 80w


=HYAMSON, ALBERT MONTEFIORE.= Palestine, the rebirth of an ancient
people. il *$1.50 Knopf 915.69 17-23768

  “A detailed presentation of the social, economic, and agricultural
  conditions in modern Palestine, accompanied by a brief survey of the
  history of the country since the time of Roman occupation. Palestine
  has long appeared to be a desert. ... The colonies established under
  the care of the Zionist movement have proved that Palestine is one of
  the richest agricultural and fruit-producing countries on the face of
  the globe. ... What Palestine needs, Mr Hyamson states, is, first, a
  new vitalized western population, secondly, roads, railways and
  harbors, and above all a wise, just and stable government. Since the
  sorry events of Turkish misrule following the war, the Jews of
  Palestine hope for local autonomy under the protection of a Protestant
  power that will see fair play between the different elements of the
  population.”—R of Rs

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:124 Ja ‘18

         =Boston Transcript= p6 N 24 ‘17 400w

  “Mr Hyamson has done his task thoroughly. His book contains all the
  information necessary on the subject, handled with a nice sense of
  relative values in a style that is somewhat heavy.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:462 N 11 ‘17 530w

         =R of Rs= 56:553 N ‘17 180w

  “The unique interest of his work lies in the part concerned with
  modern Zionism and the actual work of colonisation and education which
  it has so far achieved.”

       + =Sat R= 124:151 Ag 25 ‘17 1500w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 8 ‘18 310w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p387 Ag 16 ‘17 2250w


=HYDE, WILLIAM DE WITT.= Best man I know. *50c Macmillan 170 17-14119

  President Hyde of Bowdoin college died on June 29, 1917. In this, his
  last book, he has condensed into ninety-five pages some forty-five
  treatises. “The best man Dr Hyde knows finds the roots of his being in
  ‘that will for the good of all which is the will of God,’ and from
  these roots various practical fruits are borne.” (Nation)

  “It seems almost mystically appropriate that President Hyde’s last
  publication should be a message to the world describing ‘The best man
  I know,’ an ideal which many of the author’s friends and former pupils
  will think he not only depicted but exemplified. ... Dr Hyde had
  something very definite to say on each of his topics, and what he has
  written will make excellent food for reflection for men and women of
  every age.”

       + =Nation= 105:377 O 4 ‘17 270w

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 90w




                                   I


Information annual 1916; a continuous cyclopedia and digest of current
events. *$4 Cumulative digest corporation 031 (16-9777)

  The second annual cumulation of the monthly numbers of Information.
  The Foreword says, “With the issue for January, 1917, Information
  passed into new ownership, tho remaining under the same editorial
  direction as heretofore. This change of ownership brought an enlarged
  size and a changed format—which will affect materially the bulk of the
  new annual volume. The present volume is, however, but slightly larger
  than that for 1915. The European war, as before, overshadows all other
  subjects.” The volume is a cyclopedia for the year 1916, bringing the
  latest cyclopedias up to date. Fremont Rider is general editor, and
  the work of compilation has been done by Elizabeth Webb.

  “Unique in that it follows the news as given in the daily papers upon
  a great variety of topics with only so much of editorial digestion as
  is required by brevity and the exclusion of extraneous and repetitious
  matter. A much larger number of topics are treated than in the
  excellent ‘American year book’ or ‘New international year book’; the
  annual has the nature of an edition of the index of the New York Times
  with brief text under each entry instead of reference to the newspaper
  files, though it is not so inclusive. Its defects are many and
  evident. It contains no information except that which appears in the
  news columns of the press, it is not well written, and it suffers much
  from incoherence.”

     + — =Nation= 105:100 Jl 26 ‘17 250w


=INGPEN, ROGER.= Shelley in England; new facts and letters from the
Shelley-Whitton papers. 2v il *$5 Houghton 17-9463

  “Mr Ingpen is known already as the author of ‘The letters of Percy
  Bysshe Shelley,’ first published about eight years ago. ... Its
  first-hand offering of the real Shelley as limned by himself in his
  letters complemented Professor Dowden’s monumental biography and the
  two together gave what has been thought to be the definite depiction
  of the poet, his life, career, and character. But new material has
  been found which adds much of interest to the facts already known. ...
  Several interesting new facts are revealed, and some portions of Mary
  Shelley’s life in England are cleared up. Two letters written by Lord
  Byron and a number by Shelley and his relatives are printed for the
  first time. Legal documents recently unearthed establishing Shelley’s
  marriage to Harriet Westbrook in Edinburgh and others concerning her
  suicide are here first published.”—N Y Times

  “Not necessary in the average public library.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:127 Ja ‘18

  Reviewed by G. I. Colbron

       + =Bookm= 45:289 My ‘17 1000w

  “His story is well known as one of the most romantic in all literary
  biography. It is told by Mr Ingpen in all its variety with little
  skill and with a straightforward marshalling of facts old and new. The
  two volumes contain many valuable additions to authentic Shelleyana,
  and in an appendix of almost one hundred pages are reprinted a series
  of documentary texts, and facsimile pages of Shelley’s note-books
  rescued from the boat that carried him to his death.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 F 24 ‘17 1460w

  “His work is too bulky for a supplement to Dowden’s and too scant for
  a successor. He deserves much credit, however, for assembling a
  variety of information which has been accumulated since Dowden’s time.
  He deserves still more credit for original contributions to our
  knowledge of Shelley.” Garland Greever

     + — =Dial= 62:521 Je 14 ‘17 1800w

       + =Lit D= 54:1425 My 12 ‘17 430w

  “The object is frankly to complement the standard biographies
  (particularly Dowden’s). Manifestly the work must be judged on its own
  basis. Taken alone, it is incomplete and has the misfortune, so far as
  mere interest is concerned, of dealing largely with controversial and
  subordinate issues. But it is a scholarly and, for its own end,
  well-constructed narrative. By all odds the most important new matter
  presented by Mr Ingpen is a considerable series of letters that passed
  between William Whitton (Timothy Shelley’s solicitor) and the various
  members of the Shelley family.”

       + =Nation= 105:123 Ag 2 ‘17 950w

       + =N Y Times= 22:61 F 25 ‘17 1750w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:672 O ‘17 100w

  “The new material, of which Mr Ingpen makes a very workmanlike use,
  was discovered by the lawyers who succeeded to the business of
  Whitton, the solicitor of Timothy Shelley, the poet’s father.”

       + =Spec= 118:338 Mr 17 ‘17 1750w

  “Here is a book which, on account of the scarcity of paper, has grown
  to the dimensions of a college dictionary. The publishers were forced
  to divide the sheets into two sizable volumes, which are now issued in
  uncut paper label style, and which, notwithstanding their weight, will
  be found very much worth while if you are a lover of Shelley and of
  the England of his day.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 F 24 ‘17 130w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p95 F 22 ‘17 100w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p115 Mr 8 ‘17 750w

  “The book will be indispensable to the real student of Shelley, but it
  does not aim to be a self-sufficient biography for the general reader.
  The author has so rigorously ‘refrained from moralizing, or attempting
  any detailed criticism of Shelley’s literary work,’ that his narrative
  is at times colorless.” C. M. Lewis

     + — =Yale R= n s 7:433 Ja ‘18 760w


=INGRAM, ELEANOR MARIE.= Twice American. il *$1.35 (2c) Lippincott
17-28801

  David Noel was called the “Twice-American” because Brazil, on account
  of services rendered the state, allowed him to become a Brazilian
  citizen without surrendering his United States citizenship. When David
  was a lonely, poverty-stricken boy of eleven, a little five-year-old
  girl gave him her white shoes to sell so that he could replace his own
  worn out ones. The money received for her shoes, gave him his start in
  life. He followed the sea for years, then settled in Brazil where he
  became rich and honored, a general and a statesman. The palace where
  he lived was known as the “House of the little shoes.” The latter part
  of the story deals with “Dom David’s” search for and courtship of his
  “lady of the little shoes,” about whom hangs a mystery; and with the
  treachery of Jacinto Meyer, his pro-German enemy. “Dom David’s”
  secretary, Nilo Valdez, and Corey Bruce, an American engineer,
  released from prison on parole, play prominent parts in the story.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:132 Ja ‘18

         =Nation= 105:667 D 13 ‘17 80w

  “This novel is described as a romance, and if the word is another term
  for incredible narrative it has been given an apt name.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:518 D 2 ‘17 260w

  Reviewed by R. D. Moore

       + =Pub W= 92:2031 D 8 ‘17 340w

         =Springf’d Republican= p13 F 3 ‘18 220w


=INNESS, GEORGE, jr.= Life, art, and letters of George Inness; with an
introd. by Elliott Daingerfield. il *$4 (7½c) Century 17-26890

  America’s greatest landscape artist receives intimate and sympathetic
  treatment from the son who was his comrade and pupil. To write into
  these chapters the dynamic energy of his father’s studio hours and the
  quiet absorption of his out-of-door preparation has been a congenial
  task for the son. “He has given us a picture of his father, the man
  and his habits, and with this has told to us incident and story, many
  of them new, all reflecting most clearly the ingenuous nature of the
  man.” He attributes Inness’s great success to his honesty and
  simplicity. The volume is fully illustrated, there being many
  reproductions of Inness’s paintings.

  “An interesting and very appealing picture of a great man. Reading his
  life cannot fail to give the Inness lover new reverence for his work
  and it must introduce many who may not know it.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:93 D ‘17

  “The book comes most opportunely at the present stage of our artistic
  development, and it ought to serve, in some measure, as a corrective
  for some of the fantastic, distorted, barren ideas concerning art that
  have sprung up and spread offensively during recent years.” F. F.
  Kelly

       + =Bookm= 46:329 N ‘17 300w

  “There is an interesting selection from Inness’s letters, throwing
  light on his religious opinions and on his own art and that of his
  contemporaries.”

       + =Lit D= 55:44 D 8 ‘17 130w

       + =R of Rs= 57:99 Ja ‘18 120w

  “The reader does not need to be a student or even a great lover of art
  in order to enjoy this vivid and intimate picture of the greatest of
  our landscape painters. The son who tells the story was his father’s
  pupil as well as congenial companion, and yet he is able to look at
  the artist’s work in a detached, impartial manner, and to describe it
  in a way to make the book very valuable to students.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:30 Ja ‘18 100w


International military digest annual, 1916. *$4 Cumulative digest
corporation 355 (17-14742)

  “‘The international military digest’ summarizes the contents of
  eighty-odd periodicals on military science in fourteen languages. It
  is published monthly as a magazine and in this annual volume the
  material of the twelve separate issues is rearranged and re-grouped
  under common heads so as to make a complete, accessible record of the
  progress in each branch of military science during the year.”—Pub W

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 30w

  “There isn’t six inches of superfluous matter in the six hundred and
  thirty pages of double column contents of this book. The type is clear
  and easy to read. Whether a man be in the regular army, a member of
  the Officers’ reserve corps, or merely one who is trying to follow the
  events of the war intelligently it is hard to see how he can afford to
  overlook this work.” A. B. Guernsey

       + =Pub W= 91:1322 Ap 21 ‘17 600w


=IRWIN, FLORENCE.= Mask. il *$1.40 (2c) Little 17-24816

  The mask referred to in the title is the one which the author assumes
  that we all wear to hide our thought and feelings. Elsa, Alison and
  Gertrude Terry are the daughters of a father who is a clergyman and a
  mother who is “a dodger of real issues.” The girls lead a sheltered
  life in the town of Coningsboro, and grow up innocent and
  inexperienced. Alison inherits money from an aunt, marries a
  temperamental young author, Phil Howland, and goes with him to New
  York. Her husband proves to be selfish, lazy, a gambler, and
  neglectful of his wife. The way in which Alison bears everything, even
  the loss through Phil’s carelessness of her baby, how she succeeds as
  an author, how she remakes her husband, body and soul, form the main
  theme of this story of married life. The handling of one episode in
  the book between Alison and a friend of Phil’s recalls the descriptive
  powers of Mr Theodore Dreiser.

         =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 40w

         =N Y Times= 22:401 O 14 ‘17 200w


=IRWIN, GRACE.= Brown-eyed Susan. il *75c Little book pub. 17-9254

  Susan Yorke was a pretty little girl whose mother’s original ideas as
  to clothing her caused the child much suffering. The story carries
  Susan “through childhood to girlhood, through the normal school to her
  first position as teacher.” (Boston Transcript)

  “‘Brown-eyed Susan’ is a pretty little story of everyday humanity. It
  will not have a reader who will not long to put it in the hands of at
  least one person of her acquaintance that some sensitive child may
  thereby be spared the ordeal of being conspicuously unlike her mates.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 5 ‘17 200w

  “The little volume, which is the first book of a young author, should
  be welcomed as enjoyable in itself, and as a pleasing promise of
  future work.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:190 My 13 ‘17 200w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 17 ‘17 160w


=IRWIN, INEZ (HAYNES) (MRS WILLIAM HENRY IRWIN).= Lady of kingdoms.
*$1.50 (1½c) Doran 17-25510

  A village on Cape Cod is the scene of the early part of this story and
  two young women who have grown up in its repressive atmosphere are
  joint heroines. Both in the words of Matt Hallowell, the village
  philosopher, are “waste women.” Southward Drake is a beautiful,
  flashing girl who early exhausts the opportunities Shayneford offers.
  Her friend Hester Crowell is colorless and uninteresting, her latent
  qualities remaining undeveloped. A party of New Yorkers who spend a
  summer in camp in the neighborhood bring contact with the outer world.
  The two girls visit New York and are introduced to its many sidedness.
  Southward ultimately marries, and Hester, breaking through the
  barriers of reserve that have held her, deliberately chooses the
  difficult way of unmarried motherhood as the solution for her problem.

         =N Y Times= 22:367 S 30 ‘17 400w


=IRWIN, M. E. F.= Out of the house. *$1.35 (1½c) Doran (Eng ed 17-15549)

  The time of this story is the nineteenth century, but little Carolin
  Pomfret, who is its heroine, is brought up in an atmosphere that
  belongs to the century preceding. Left an orphan at five, she comes to
  live with her relatives Great-aunt Catherine, who had been a belle of
  the Regency, Great-aunt Lucilla, and her elderly daughter Lavinia, and
  elderly Cousin James. She is brought up on family history, given
  family memoirs to read, and because the Pomfrets hold that no Pomfret
  should marry outside the family if it can be helped, she is all but
  married to one of them, her weak-willed cousin Antony. But fortunately
  a big man from Ireland appears in time to take her away, out of the
  house of Pomfret, to a new life, which altho it does not offer safety
  and security, yet promises something of freedom and joy.

  “The tale as it is told is convincing and very charming.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 14 ‘17 720w

  “The book has finish and a certain dainty and deliberate
  artificiality, but the same things are described, the same ground gone
  over so often, that it presently becomes more than a little tedious,
  losing much of the charm it might otherwise have had.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:31 Ja 28 ‘17 350w

  “The book has a quaint old-world flavour. The characters would have
  figured appropriately had the date been a hundred years ago.”

       + =Spec= 118:241 F 24 ‘17 30w


=IRWIN, WALLACE ADMAH.= Pilgrims into folly: romantic excursions. *$1.35
(1½c) Doran 17-16317

  The author of the “Letters of a Japanese schoolboy” here gives us
  seven short stories, mainly serious in character. “You can’t get away
  from your grandfather,” “What became of Deegan Folk?” and “He shot the
  bird of paradise” were published in McClure’s Magazine for April,
  1914, February and September, 1915, respectively. Other copyrights are
  held by the Short Story press corporation and P. F. Collier & Son.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:96 D ‘17

  “Perhaps one can best recommend Mr Irwin’s first collection of short
  stories by saying that it is likely to give equal pleasure to the
  casual and to the analytical reader.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 350w

  “One story, ‘He shot the bird of paradise,’ stands out from the rest.
  It has subtlety and suspense, and is marred only by a touch of
  amateurishness—a criticism that applies to the entire volume. Mr Irwin
  is still a little uncertain of his powers, but the present book has
  definite promise.”

     + — =Dial= 63:403 O 25 ‘17 110w

  “Mr Irwin’s versatility is nothing less than astonishing. ... The
  writer of ‘Random rhymes,’ etc., whose name is suggestive of smiles,
  presents in his new volume seven short stories, of which pathos,
  sometimes deepening into tragedy, is the most striking characteristic.
  They are told with exquisite art, and with a sincerity which makes
  even impossibilities, as in ‘The highest,’ credible.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:250 Jl 1 ‘17 110w

  “The final tale, ‘The ideal gentleman,’ may be voted the best of the
  group. It is a pathetic story of a waiter’s efforts to make of his son
  a ‘gentleman’ in the English sense of the term.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 350w


=IRWIN, WILLIAM HENRY (WILL IRWIN).= Latin at war. *$1.75 Appleton
940.91 17-26656

  “Mr Irwin’s book on ‘The Latin at war’ makes a connecting link between
  the French and the Italian soldiers and nations. The first chapter,
  ‘The city of unshed tears,’ deals with Paris, then the next four take
  the reader to the Italian front on the Isonzo and up among the
  fighting men in the high Italian Alps. Afterward he returns to France
  and carries the reader with him along the French front, where he
  describes the work of the American ambulance service, and tells of his
  observations and experiences in the war-swept zone. In the last
  chapter there is perhaps the most comprehensive and accurate account
  of the French army, how it is formed, why it is democratic, what are
  its peculiar qualities, and whence they are derived that has been
  offered to American readers. The chapters dealing with the work of the
  Italian army are graphic and full of human interest.”—N Y Times

  “A vivid, very readable account of the author’s experiences on the
  French and Italian fronts in 1916. Some have appeared in the Saturday
  Evening Post.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:20 O ‘17

         =Ath= p420 Ag ‘17 60w

         =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 60w

       + =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 70w

  “The present book should be cut down to half its size. The author is a
  good observer, he has had excellent opportunities to see the French
  and Italian armies, and he paints some graphic scenes; but his pages
  are cluttered up with long descriptions of things that do not count.”

     + — =Dial= 63:348 O 11 ‘17 200w

       + =Ind= 91:474 S 22 ‘17 500w

  “No correspondent ‘at the front,’ during this war, has found more of
  human interest in his experiences than has Mr Irwin. He knows how to
  find it, and how to record it. His style is terse and graphic. He
  makes you visualize while you read, because he visualized while he
  wrote.”

       + =Lit D= 55:40 S 15 ‘17 280w

  “His pages may lack the charm of the first-hand narrative of poilu or
  ambulance driver, but they contain a good deal of intelligent
  reflection, and there is no bluff and not too much rhetoric.”

         =Nation= 105:154 Ag 9 ‘17 220w

  “Mr Irwin has remained fundamentally American and naïve and curious to
  know what the whole thing means in human values to everyday men and
  women. He is not the professional war correspondent. His human values
  have remained steady—although convinced of the basic justice of the
  cause of the Allies, he has not maligned the enemy.”

       + =New Repub= 12:225 S 22 ‘17 650w

       + =N Y Times= 22:266 Jl 15 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:682 O ‘17 60w

       + =Spec= 118:675 Je 16 ‘17 280w


=IZOR, ESTELLE PEEL.= Costume design and home planning. il 90c Atkinson,
Mentzer & co. 646 16-17166

  “The purpose of this volume is to help establish in the minds of girls
  ‘a sane sensible well-balanced attitude toward dress,’ and towards the
  home as ‘the vital center of all life’s activities.’ ... The book is
  the result of experience in teaching.”—School Arts Magazine

  “Elementary enough for children to read.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:249 Mr ‘17

  “The best book so far available on elementary costume design and home
  planning.”

       + =Cleveland= p155 D ‘16 60w

         =St Louis= 15:144 My ‘17

  “Well written, captivatingly illustrated. ... It is without doubt the
  best single volume for teachers who are required to teach costume
  design to junior high school pupils. It will prove helpful, however,
  to upper grammar and high school teachers everywhere who have to help
  young people to think seriously about their own personal relation to
  clothing and shelter.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 16:89 O ‘16 150w




                                   J


=JABOTINSKY, VLADIMIR.= Turkey and the war. 6s T. Fisher Unwin, London

  “The author begins by attempting to define the objective as
  distinguished from the subjective aims of the present war, the aims
  inherent in the situation. ... The destruction and partition of Turkey
  may be considered the real aim of the conflict because its
  accomplishment is essential to a durable peace. ... Discussing the
  various controversial points of the scheme of partitioning the empire,
  Mr Jabotinsky points out that the present Germano-Turkish alliance
  would imply the presumably independent Sultanate of Anatolia as the
  natural field for German commercial expansion, and that the policy of
  excluding Germany from any such natural expansion must inevitably lead
  to another war, especially if the proposed plan of an annexation of
  German markets in allied countries is carried through. He concludes by
  emphasizing the importance, for its psychological effect, of an allied
  conquest and military occupation of the great market represented by
  Asiatic Turkey,”—N Y Times

  “M. Jabotinsky pins no faith on a self-controlled, self-directed or
  stable Ottoman kingdom. In his lucid and somewhat cynical book,
  brilliant in its exposition, he discloses the salient defect of
  Turkish rule, or rather of the Young Turks’ rule. ... It comes from a
  false theory of nationality.” H. S.

       + =New Repub= 12:24 Ag 4 ‘17 1250w

  “This essay by the military correspondent of the Moscow Russkia
  Vedomosti represents some original thinking on the Eastern question.
  Briefly, it is a more than usually straightforward application of the
  ‘est delenda’ to the Ottoman empire, supported by a convincing series
  of facts and arguments.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:323 S 2 ‘17 520w


=JACKS, LAWRENCE PEARSALL.=[2] Life and letters of Stopford Brooke. 2v
il *$4.75 Scribner 17-27957

  “The facts of Brooke’s life are probably well known. Born in 1832, the
  son of a poor but well-born Irish clergyman, he was ordained in 1857,
  was curate at Kensington from 1859 to 1863, took the lease of St
  James’s chapel in 1865, and left the Church of England in 1880.” (The
  Times [London] Lit Sup) “From the moment of his leaving the church
  Brooke became formally what he had temperamentally been for many
  years, an independent. ... He was a preacher and a teacher, a poet and
  a lecturer, and he was interested in science and art, painting being
  among the joys and recreations of his later years. He wrote many books
  in addition to the little volume by which he is best known [“A primer
  of English literature”]. ... Dr Jacks’ biography is throughout a near
  view of the man in all his aspects. The biographer married Brooke’s
  daughter and he draws freely upon the letters which in themselves
  represent clearly the progress of the great preacher’s intellectual
  life.” (Boston Transcript)

       + =Ath= p32 Ja ‘18 1750w

  “To give us a self-revelation of Stopford Brooke is what Dr Jacks
  strives to do and succeeds in doing. Although he knew his subject so
  intimately, he practices self-effacement except where the personal
  recollections and the personal touch are necessary to color and
  emphasize his story.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 12 ‘17 1500w

  “Well worth reading because of its faithful depiction of a sweet,
  wholesome and beautiful nature expressing itself in manifold
  activities through a long and busy life.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:20 Ja 20 ‘18 780w

  “An adequate and appreciative account.”

       + =Outlook= 118:66 Ja 9 ‘18 30w

  “Fascinating volumes.”

       + =Sat R= 124:464 D 8 ‘17 1650w

  “This biography has one quality at least which makes it very unlike
  the usual biography. It has the quality of growth. It is the record of
  the things that change rather than of the things that happen. The
  result is a book not of revelations or confessions in the usual sense,
  but of spiritual development which carries the art of biography a step
  further in the most interesting direction now open to it—that of
  psychology.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p581 N 29 ‘17 2050w


=JACKSON, GABRIELLE EMILIE (SNOW).= Silverheels. il *$1 (4½c) Doran
17-30276

  Silverheels is a gray horse. His young master, Bob Hughes, is a waif
  who has run away from the brutal farmer who has mistreated him, taking
  Silverheels, his one possession, with him. Silverheels is a
  wonderfully intelligent horse, and it is he who helps Bob find a home
  with kind people who turn out to be the boy’s own relatives. The story
  was published in St Nicholas in 1916.

         =Lit D= 55:59 D 8 ‘17 60w

  “A nice human story of a horse who is much better than some humans and
  a first-class hero for a story.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:384 O 7 ‘17 30w

  “Although this book is not written for the very youngest readers, they
  will enjoy it as well as those a little older.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 20 ‘17 100w


=JACKSON, J. WILFRID.= Shells as evidence of the migrations of early
culture. (Manchester univ. Ethnological ser.) il *$2 Longmans 572

  This book consists of a report of the preliminary survey in the field
  of research suggested by the title. It is made up of a reprint of four
  papers, first published in the Proceedings of the Manchester literary
  and philosophical society. The first of the four on The geographical
  distribution of the shell-purple industry, is concerned with the
  utilization of shells in the manufacture of the famous dye, “Tyrian
  purple.” Subsequent chapters take up Shell-trumpets and their
  distribution in the old and new world; The geographical distribution
  of the use of pearls and pearl-shell; The use of cowry-shells for the
  purposes of currency, amulets and charms. Additional data that has
  come to light since the first printing of the papers is given in
  appendixes. In his introduction G. Elliot Smith, dean of the faculty
  of medicine in Manchester university, discusses the magic properties
  attributed to shells. The book is provided with index, maps and other
  illustrations.

  “Professor Elliot Smith and his colleagues, Mr Jackson and Mr Perry,
  cannot be praised too highly for their method. Admiration for
  Professor Elliot Smith’s ingenuity must not blind us to the extremely
  hazardous character of his theoretical affiliations.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:530 D 29 ‘17 1400w

  “Professor Elliot Smith agrees with the author in thinking that so
  laborious an industry as the preparation of this purple from
  shell-fish could not have been invented in more than one district, and
  that its occurrence in eastern Asia and America points to a migration
  from the Mediterranean. It is a plausible theory, but it is not
  proved.”

     + — =Spec= 119:301 S 22 ‘17 120w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p454 S 20 ‘17 140w

  “If there is some lack of arrangement, if the trees, not to mention
  the shrubs, do obscure the view of the wood, if the index whenever
  appealed to affords no clue, still we cannot but admire the diligence
  and wide reading of the author.”

   + – — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p501 O 18 ‘17 1650w


=JACKSON, MARGARET TALBOT.= Museum: a manual of the housing and care of
art collections. il *$1.75 (3c) Longmans 708 17-14148

  “The object of this little book is to put before those interested in
  the administration of collections the result of several years of study
  of the museums of Europe and America. It cannot claim the distinction
  of bringing new ideas to a field where so many men of genius have long
  been working; it can only hope to call attention to the results of the
  constant experiments being made by those already in the field.”
  (Preface) The list of museums visited, given in an appendix, shows how
  extensive have been the author’s studies. Contents: The situation of
  the museum building; The architectural plan; Preparation for the
  collections; The formation of collections; The preparation of objects
  for exhibition; Official questions. The seven illustrations have been
  chosen to fit the text. The volume is without an index.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:48 N ‘17

  “As a pioneer in its field this study of the museum is a noteworthy
  book.”

       + =Dial= 64:74 Ja 17 ‘18 280w

  “Nothing would more make for the education of those public-spirited
  laymen who are our museum trustees than a careful perusal of this
  volume.”

       + =Nation= 105:44 Jl 12 ‘17 100w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:110 Jl ‘17 20w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:512 Je ‘17 30w

  “Save for its unforgivable crime of having no index, her book is
  extraordinarily good.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p579 N 29 ‘17 420w


=JACKSON, ORTON PORTER, and EVANS, FRANK EDGAR.=[2] Marvel book of
American ships. il *$2.50 Stokes 359 17-31922

  An informing revelation of the secrets of big ship building. The
  reader is taken to the ship yards and gets an inside idea of how
  undersea fighters, superdreadnoughts, all around battle ships,
  destroyers, sea liners, and all sorts of lesser craft are built. There
  are accounts of dramatic sea happenings such as sea battles, gun
  firing and signaling, deep-sea diving and certain tragedies of the
  seas. Notable features of the book are its more than 400 illustrations
  from photographs, the chart of the flags used, the signal code and the
  chart of funnel types and company flags by which ships can be
  recognized at a distance.

       + =N Y Times= 23:25 Ja 20 ‘18 110w

  “A reliable informational book.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:215 F ‘18 140w


=JACKSON, SIR THOMAS GRAHAM, 1st bart.= Holiday in Umbria. il *$3 (7c)
Holt 914.5 (Eng ed 17-21517)

  Sir Thomas Graham Jackson, who is architecturally responsible for the
  restoration and addition of so many of the beautiful buildings of the
  great English universities and public schools, has here given us a
  second book of travel. It is “a book of historical, architectural, and
  literary interest, originating in two visits, in 1881 and 1888, to a
  part of Italy comparatively unfamiliar to British travellers. Ancona,
  Rimini, Gubbio, Urbino, Pesaro, and other places are described; there
  is a particularly detailed account of the ducal palace at Urbino; and
  many pages are devoted to extracts from ‘Il cortegiano’ (’The
  courtier’), by Count Baldassare Castiglione, ambassador from Duke
  Guidobaldo I to King Henry VII. These excerpts present a pleasing
  picture of life at the ducal court.” (Ath)

  “The book is very readable, and the illustrations are good.”

       + =Ath= p104 F ‘17 100w

  “The author’s contribution to the literature of travel is a valuable
  one.”

       + =Dial= 64:82 Ja 17 ‘18 120w

  “One of the chief sources of information concerning this history is
  Castiglione’s ‘Il cortegiano,’ and an abstract of this forms the
  longest and not the least interesting chapter in Sir Thomas’s book,
  which is made additionally attractive by reproductions of some of his
  own sketches and a few photographs.”

       + =Int Studio= 61:145 My ‘17 190w

  “The book is beautifully produced and illustrated.”

       + =Library World= 19:273 Ap ‘17 130w

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 8 ‘17 110w

       + =N Y Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 230w

  “Books of travel appeal to two classes of people—those who have seen,
  and those who plan to see. This one will interest especially the first
  class.”

       + =Outlook= 117:350 O 31 ‘17 50w

  “Distinction and insight are the leading characteristics of Sir Thomas
  Jackson’s contributions to the literature of his art, and they are not
  lacking in this volume. ... In describing the humours of the road he
  selects exactly the right sort of experience to lay before his
  readers; but in the historical scaffolding he raises around the cities
  and structures he went to see he is less happy.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p79 F 15 ‘17 1050w


=JACKSON, WILLIAM WALROND.= Ingram Bywater. *$3 Oxford 17-28095

  This memoir of the Oxford scholar, Ingram Bywater—the undergraduate
  with Walter Pater at Queen’s, the fellow of Exeter, the college tutor
  and reader in Greek, and finally the successor to the chair of regius
  professor of Greek left vacant by the death of Professor Jowett—is
  written by an intimate friend and fellow Oxonian, the former rector of
  Exeter college. “Incidentally Dr Jackson tells us all that needs to be
  told about Bywater’s personal circumstances and surroundings. But
  essentially the book is a well-balanced appreciation of Bywater’s aims
  and achievements as a Hellenist of the best and most catholic type.”
  (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

  “A biography which will be read with attentive interest by all who
  have at heart the intrinsic value of the scholar’s life. ... There is
  something sound and stimulating in the fellowship of one who seems
  never to have suffered from the disease so rife to-day among
  university men—the feeling of despondency over the value of
  scholarship in and for itself and over the intrinsic dignity of the
  scholar’s life.”

       + =Nation= 105:98 Jl 26 ‘17 250w

  “Those who do read the book can be assured, for two hours, at least,
  of a perfect haven of rest. It is a happily short book. It has the
  kind of virtues one associates with a good common-room at Oxford,
  half-a-dozen flashing epigrams, some good anecdotes about the
  incomparable Mark Pattison, and the heavy mellowness of old college
  port above it all.” H. J. L.

       + =New Repub= 12:278 O 6 ‘17 1550w

  “Dr Jackson’s memoir is written in choice, good English, but seems a
  little formal. Here it may be characteristic of his subject.”

       + =Sat R= 123:482 My 26 ‘17 1000w

  “Dr Jackson’s memoir reveals Professor Bywater as an attractive human
  being and illustrates the permanent value of his scholarship.”

       + =Spec= 118:678 Je 16 ‘17 140w

  “An admirable little monograph on one of the most learned and
  brilliant Hellenists that modern Oxford has produced. ... We cannot
  doubt that all who have known Oxford and its academical life during
  the later decades of the last century and the first decade of this
  will heartily welcome the book and read it with keen appreciation. Dr
  Jackson is singularly well qualified for the task he has undertaken.
  He has produced a masterpiece of its kind.”

 *   + + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p175 Ap 12 ‘17 1850w


=JACOBS, WILLIAM WYMARK.= Castaways. *$1.35 (2c) Scribner 17-2478

  Mr Jacobs’s new story takes place half on land and half on sea. He has
  adopted one of the seven, or is it eleven? original plots as a
  starting point. A modest and unpretentious bank clerk of quiet tastes
  inherits a fortune. The diversion from type is furnished by Mr Jack
  Knight, an irresponsible and audacious young person who is not averse
  to using Mr Carstairs’s good fortune to further his own ends. His ends
  happen to concern the niece of Lady Penrose. Mr Carstairs is induced
  to buy a country house in Lady Penrose’s neighborhood where Mr Knight
  can be a frequent guest. Later Mr Carstairs is induced to charter a
  yacht and take the whole party, including Lady Penrose and her niece,
  Mr Knight and his friends, for a cruise. A prearranged mutiny which
  takes an amusing and unexpected turn brings on the climax.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:267 Mr ‘17

  “His fun turns invariably either on practical joking or its verbal
  counterpart of repartee. Perhaps that is why he is, as I believe,
  almost exclusively a man’s author. ... It is all good fun for the
  reader who likes the Jacobs kind of thing.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:98 Mr ‘17 400w

       + =N Y Times= 22:26 Ja 28 ‘17 350w

  Reviewed by Doris Webb

       + =Pub W= 91:205 Ja 20 ‘17 350w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 25 ‘17 250w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p587 D 7 ‘16 450w


=JACOBY, HAROLD.=[2] Navigation. il *$2.25 Macmillan 527 17-28810

  The author has aimed to make this a book complete in itself, “so that
  it should be possible to navigate a ship in any ocean not very near
  the north or south pole without other books or tabular works,
  excepting only the nautical almanac for the year in which the voyage
  is made.” No formal mathematical and astronomical knowledge has been
  assumed on the part of the reader. The author is professor of
  astronomy in Columbia university. Contents: The fundamental problem of
  navigation; Dead reckoning without logarithms; Dead reckoning with
  logarithms; The compass; Coastwise navigation; The sextant; The
  nautical almanac; Older navigation methods; Newer navigation methods;
  A navigator’s day at sea.

  “Useful for those who must study without a teacher and convenient for
  the advanced student.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:155 F ‘18

  “Nothing more in the way of books is required by young navigators,
  who, doubtless, will welcome it as warmly as it deserves.”

       + =Nation= 105:670 D 13 ‘17 250w

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ja ‘18 40w

         =R of Rs= 57:102 Ja ‘18 50w


=JAFFRAY, JULIA KIPPEN=, ed. Prison and the prisoner. il *$2.50 (6c)
Little 365 17-31780

  This symposium, to which fourteen specialists contribute, is edited by
  the secretary of the National committee on prisons and prison labor.
  In the discussions the point of view of the lawyer, the doctor, the
  psychiatrist, the social worker, the educator and the prison official
  is expressed, each contributing something to the new ideals of prison
  reform. Contents: The prisoner and the courts, by William H. Wadhams;
  The prisoner himself, by Bernard H. Glueck and Thomas W. Salmon; The
  prisoner—ward or slave? by Karl W. Kirchwey; The control over the
  prisoner, by George Gordon Battle and E. Stagg Whitin; Self-government
  by the prisoner, by Thomas Mott Osborne and E. Kent Hubbard; The
  prison officer, by Frederick A. Dorner; Industrial training for the
  prisoner, by Arthur D. Dean; The prisoner in the road camp, by Charles
  Henry Davis; The union man and the prisoner, by Collis Lovely; The man
  who comes out of prison, by R. J. Caldwell; The community center and
  the delinquent, by John Collier.

  “The joint authors of the book place the emphasis rightly ‘not on the
  place from which the man has come but on that to which he is going.’”
  R M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 12 ‘17 670w

  “A valuable and inspiring, if somewhat formless, work by a dozen
  authors with more or less expert knowledge as to our prisons.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:653 D 19 ‘17 70w

  “A more satisfactory book would have been produced if fewer writers
  had collaborated, those being left out who either have little to say
  or who haven’t stuck to their text.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 10 ‘18 470w

  “The book obviously aims to meet with specific suggestions, in some
  instances with programs even, some of the pressing tasks set society
  by the man in prison. With a few striking successes it scores several
  dismal failures.” W. D. Lane

     – + =Survey= 39:369 D 29 ‘17 800w


=JAMES, GEORGE WHARTON.= Arizona, the wonderland. (See America first
ser.) il *$3.50 Page 979.1 17-29202

  “The scope of the present work is set forth on the title page as
  follows: ‘The history of its ancient cliff and cave dwellings, ruined
  pueblos, conquest by the Spaniards, Jesuit and Franciscan missions,
  trail makers and Indians; a survey of its climate, scenic marvels,
  topography, deserts, mountains, rivers and valleys; a review of its
  industries; an account of its influence on art, literature and
  science; and some reference to what it offers of delight to the
  automobilist, sportsman, pleasure and health seeker.’ Fortunately the
  pages are large, so the above subtitle leaves also space for the
  announcement of a map and sixty plates of which twelve are in
  color.”—Springf’d Republican

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:164 F ‘18

  “A volume valuable as a record, as well as attractive to those in
  search of timely gift-books.” A. A. R.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 17 ‘17 800w

  “Too bulky for a guide book, too discursive for quick reference, the
  work nevertheless, makes pleasant and often informative reading.”

       + =Dial= 63:644 D 20 ‘17 350w

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 8 ‘17 170w

       + =Outlook= 117:518 N 28 ‘17 50w

  “His style is so easy that the uninitiated will imagine that the book
  could almost write itself. But there is a vast amount of research
  behind this orderly parade of friars and cowboys, Indians and
  explorers and politicians.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 11 ‘17 520w


=JAMES, GEORGE WHARTON.= Reclaiming the arid West. il *$3.50 (3½c) Dodd
631 17-31554

  The author has written of the work of the United States reclamation
  service from the standpoint of the layman and homeseeker. In the early
  chapters he describes the work of the “army of peace,” which within
  the past twenty-five years has been carrying out the great plans
  conceived by Major John Wesley Powell. In the chapters that follow he
  takes up the projects, one at a time, tells something of the
  difficulties encountered, the engineering skill that surmounted them,
  and of the resulting opportunities offered to settlers. The story of
  the text is supplemented by very excellent photographic illustrations.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:155 F ‘18


=JAMES, HENRY.= Ivory tower. *$1.50 (2c) Scribner 17-29022

  Had it been finished, this work would have added one more to the
  author’s list of international novels. Graham Fielder is brought fresh
  from a European background to Newport, to be made the inheritor of his
  uncle’s millions. The story as it progressed was to have concerned
  itself with the young man’s reactions to the situation and to his new
  American environment. As it now stands the fragment has a claim to
  completeness in its unforgettable picture of the two old men, Mr Gaw
  and Mr Betterman, business rivals and enemies, each waiting for the
  death of the other. Appended to the three completed parts of the novel
  are the notes in which the author had amplified the idea of the book
  as it first took possession of him.

         =Ath= p527 O ‘17 300w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:690 F ‘18 430w

  “The texture of this story gives me the impression of a firmer and
  more precious weaving than in any of the novels of the master. The
  book is a fragment as it stands, but a glorious fragment.” W: S.
  Braithwaite

       + =Boston Transcript= p4 O 31 ‘17 1300w

  “Artistically, the book reaches the high water mark of James’ genius.”

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 90w

  “‘The ivory tower,’ if a great thing, is great in the smallest ways
  associable with its author. The story probes shrewdly into some
  aspects of our American social scene. But it belongs among such late
  and relatively little things as ‘The outcry’ and ‘The sacred fount,’
  without the beguiling farce of the one or the uniquely confessional
  purpose of the other.” Wilson Follett

     – + =Dial= 63:579 D 6 ‘17 1000w

  “Not since 1909, when Ibsen’s preliminary studies made their
  appearance, has any book thrown such interesting light on the literary
  process.” Q. K.

       + =New Repub= 13:119 D 1 ‘17 1500w

  “In the vast world tragedy this story must have seemed to its author
  trivial; and trivial it is, whether it seemed so to him or not. The
  style is full of unusual difficulties, even when compared with most of
  its author’s later works. Real characters there are, too—I have never
  seen a better presentation of that modern figure, known only too well
  in modern affluent homes, the trained nurse; but, on the whole, the
  failure to finish this story cannot be regarded as a literary
  disaster.” W: L. Phelps

     – + =N Y Times= 22:537 D 9 ‘17 650w

  “Yet it is worth while to persevere with Henry James’s tortuous
  sentences, clinched so often with a touch of slang as if the literary
  language had in the end failed him, for they build up, little by
  little, strange modern characters such as one does not find elsewhere
  in fiction.”

     + — =Spec= 119:299 S 22 ‘17 600w

  “Impressive and interesting as are these posthumous fragments, their
  interest is immensely enhanced by the plans or schemes for their
  completion. They are things quite unique in literature, intimate
  glimpses into what Henry James has elsewhere called ‘the closed
  chamber of an artist’s meditations.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p427 S 6 ‘17 1000w


=JAMES, HENRY.= Middle years. *$1.25 Scribner 17-31066

  “With this small volume, which brings us down to about the year 1870,
  the memories of Henry James break off. It is more fitting to say that
  they break off than that they come to an end, for although we are
  aware that we shall hear his voice no more, there is no hint of
  exhaustion or of leave-taking. ... We recognize, if not directly then
  by hearsay, the old world of London life which he brings out of the
  shades and sets tenderly and solidly before us as if his last gift
  were the most perfect and precious of the treasures hoarded in ‘the
  scented chest of our savings.’” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) The
  volume is the third of Henry James’s reminiscences, following “A small
  boy and others,” 1913, and “Notes of a son and brother,” 1914.

  “Unfortunately a mere fragment. Comprised in its pages, however, are
  some interesting recollections of George Eliot, G. H. Lewes, and a few
  others, as well as memory-impressions of the London of mid-Victorian
  days.”

       + =Ath= p682 ‘17 50w

  “I am glad it has been published, there are things in it one would on
  no account have missed, portraits in different scales of Swinburne,
  Renan, Browning, Lewes, George Eliot, Tennyson, Mrs Greville, Lady
  Waterford. But it makes me feel that Henry James took with him to
  England, as a young man of twenty-five, a state of mind which would
  have been forgivable if it had been temporary, and which lasted
  forever after.” P. L.

     – + =New Repub= 13:254 D 29 ‘17 1400w

  “Henry James is not at his best in the fragment called ‘The middle
  years.’ These few chapters were dictated in the autumn of 1914, when
  he was thinking of something else—the war. We ought to remember that
  they were never revised by the author, and that he dictated without
  notes. The book is a model of the publishers’ art, in its clear type,
  its dull paper, and its exquisite lightness.” W: L. Phelps

     + — =N Y Times= 22:537 D 9 ‘17 650w

         =Outlook= 117:652 D 19 ‘17 70w

  “A series of impressions or memories, which must have been a torture
  to write, as they seem to be dug out of the novelist’s memory by
  exquisite toil. ... We are far from saying that these impressions of a
  distinguished novelist are not worth giving to the world. But we think
  that they might have been conveyed in a simpler, more vivacious, and
  shorter form.”

     – + =Sat R= 124:396 N 17 ‘17 210w

  “It contains little or none of the personal gossip ordinarily to be
  found in books of reminiscences, but there are, instead, some
  unforgettable impressions of mid-Victorian worthies. ... Our only
  complaint against this ultimate fragment of his work is a complaint
  against the inevitabilities—that he did not live long enough to
  complete it.”

       + =Spec= 119:sup548 N 17 ‘17 880w

  “He comes to his task with an indescribable air of one so charged and
  laden with precious stuff that he hardly knows how to divest himself
  of it all—where to find space to set down this and that, how to resist
  altogether the claims of some other gleaming object in the background;
  appearing so busy, so unwieldy with ponderous treasure that his
  dexterity in disposing of it, his consummate knowledge of how best to
  place each fragment, afford us the greatest delight that literature
  has had to offer for many a year. And this book of memories sounds to
  us like a superb act of thanksgiving.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p497 O 18 ‘17 3700w


=JAMES, HENRY.= Pictures and other passages from Henry James; comp. by
Ruth Head. *$1 Stokes 813

  “Henry James himself set the seal of his approval on Miss Head’s
  proposed plan of making an anthology from his writings, but did not
  live to see the completed work. It is divided into five chapters with
  sections under the headings: The seasons, Nationality, America, France
  and Paris, Switzerland, Italy, London, Country England, Country
  houses, Gardens and parks, The world of art, Interiors; Men, women,
  and their rooms, Passions; Portraits of women, character, feminine;
  Portraits of men, character, male; Moralities and aphorisms, Similes
  and metaphors.”—Boston Transcript

  “The style of Henry James, building up complex impressions by minute
  sensitive touches, is more pictorial and more epigrammatic than one
  realizes until one has his portraits and pictures separated and
  individualized in such an anthology as this. ... The editor might with
  advantage have arranged his extracts chronologically, at least within
  the subsections.”

     + — =Ath= p542 N ‘16 100w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 1 ‘17 140w

         =Pratt= p34 O ‘17

  “Those who want to appreciate Henry James should read his books—there
  is no other way of appreciating an artist.”

     – + =Sat R= 122:304 S 23 ‘16 310w

  “This method of extracting representative passages and grouping them
  under headings enables the reader to appreciate at once the range and
  the limitations of Henry James’s genius. He is least happy when
  dealing with the primitive—the seasons, the passions, the
  countryside—and is seen at his best when writing of men and women, and
  the civilization they have made.”

       + =Spec= 117:554 N 4 ‘16 600w


=JAMES, HENRY.= Sense of the past. *$1.50 (1½c) Scribner 17-28794

  One of two novels that remained incomplete at the death of the writer.
  The other is “The ivory tower.” The central character is a young
  American who, from the English branch of the family, inherits an old
  London house. He goes to England, seeks out his new possession, and
  shuts himself away from the world for a night while he wanders from
  room to room, yielding to the spell of the past that is cast about
  him. He sees himself in an old portrait of 1820. A compelling sense of
  the past slips him out of the year 1910 back into 1820. Comfortably at
  first, and then uneasily he reacts to the people and conditions of the
  world into which he is projected. He experiences the thrills and
  embarrassments of two successive love affairs. The story breaks off at
  the end of the first. But some seventy pages of notes reveal the plan
  of the writer, his deft scheme for extricating his hero and bringing
  him back to 1910 and to Aurora Coyne who sent this lover of hers from
  her for the sake of his development; who grows impatient at the time
  it takes and hurries to London to find out the cause.

         =Ath= p527 O ‘17 130w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:690 F ‘18 190w

  “One inevitably thinks of ‘Peter Ibbetson,’ and the dream life there
  so exquisitely portrayed, in reading ‘The sense of the past.’ In a
  sense, too, the story of Ralph Pendrel’s experience is a dream one,
  though Henry James has touched it with innumerable hints and
  suggestions of forces deeper and more measurable scientifically though
  more elusive.” W: S. Braithwaite

       + =Boston Transcript= p4 O 31 ‘17 1500w

  “An exquisite fragment of a novel in James’ most matured style.”

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 70w

  “It alters the shape, pushes out the bounds, of the whole Henry James
  world, adds a substantial figure to the sum of imaginings,
  achievements, beauties, perfections. ‘The sense of the past’ promised
  all the rich, full orchestral resonance of novels such as ‘The
  ambassadors’ and ‘The wings of the dove’; yet, in its entire
  dissimilarity from anything else that even James could have written,
  it is as isolated and self-sufficing as ‘The great good place’ or ‘The
  Madonna of the future’ or ‘The turn of the screw.’” Wilson Follett

     + + =Dial= 63:579 D 6 ‘17 1000w

  “‘The sense of the past’ is undoubtedly a work of genius; the old
  inspiration came back abundantly for the swan song. The English style
  of ‘The sense of the past’ is a glory in itself, like a mediaeval bit
  of architecture; the result of quiet, leisurely, devoted, loving
  industry, founded on genius. Fragment though it be, it is an
  imperishable addition to the work of one of the great masters of
  English fiction.” W: L. Phelps

     + + =N Y Times= 22:537 D 9 ‘17 650w

         =Sat R= 124:sup5 S 29 ‘17 1650w

  “We can gather from the notes how Henry James wanted to complete it,
  but as the transition from 1910 to 1820 is not very satisfactorily
  contrived, we question whether the bringing back of the hero to his
  own time could have been an artistic success.”

     + — =Spec= 119:299 S 22 ‘17 600w

  “How this passion is adumbrated and suggested, how it grows and glows
  to a brightness of almost insane intensity, is sufficiently given to
  us in this fragment to make us sadly aware of our loss of a complete
  masterpiece. It would surely have been, we feel, the greatest of ghost
  stories.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p427 S 6 ‘17 1000w


=JAMES, HERMAN GERLACH.= Municipal functions. (National municipal league
ser.) *$2 (2c) Appleton 352 17-10893

  “Municipal advance in a democracy can be achieved in only one way,
  namely, by the realization on the part of the citizenship of what
  should be the ideal of municipal government,” says the author. His
  book is addressed, not to city administrators, but to citizens. His
  purpose is to give “a simple but comprehensive survey of the whole
  field of municipal endeavor.” This is done in chapters on: The growth
  of municipal functions; Public safety; Public health; Public
  education; Public morals; Social welfare; City planning; Public works;
  Public utilities; Municipal ownership; Municipal finances—revenues;
  Municipal finances—debts, budget and accounting. The author is
  associate professor of government and director of the Bureau of
  municipal research at the University of Texas.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:6 O ‘17

  “It is popular in style, practical in aim but scientific in method,
  and will give the general reader an excellent perspective of the
  modern problems of city government. Among the most important chapters
  are two entitled ‘Public morals’ and ‘Social welfare.’ As regards the
  saloon and liquor problem, he comes to the rather regrettable
  conclusion that this issue should be decided locally.”

       + =Dial= 63:276 S 27 ‘17 230w

  “In one respect this work differs from most books of its class. The
  author approaches the discussion from the standpoint of the smaller
  community rather than the metropolis.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:327 S ‘17 70w

         =St Louis= 15:322 S ‘17 10w

  “Though perhaps not directly intended as a text-book, it has the
  special values of being fundamental and clear, so much required and so
  seldom found in text-books. For the beginner who would acquire the
  point of view of the municipal statesman there is probably nothing
  better. There is one disappointment in the book. The reader is left
  with the impression that the housing problem cannot be solved.” E: T.
  Hartman

     + — =Survey= 39:46 O 13 ‘17 270w


=JAMES, WILLIAM.= On vital reserves. *50c (4c) Holt 131

  A little volume containing two of the essays of William James, one
  reprinted from “Memories and studies,” one from “Talks to teachers on
  psychology.” The first, “The energies of men,” is a study of “the
  phenomena of second wind.” The second, “The gospel of relaxation,” is
  based on the Lange-James theory of the emotions, which sometimes
  expresses itself popularly in the statement that we are afraid because
  we run. We are a tense, nervous and over-strained people, argued
  Professor James, because by habit we assume attitudes of tensity. Our
  mental state is the result of our habit of life, not vice versa.

  “The practical side of the Professor James’ books has always given
  them a wider public than is usually supposed to belong to the
  philosophical or psychological writer. In the two essays of this book
  he sums up the best ways in which young men and women—all men and
  women in fact—may realize their powers.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 230w

  “Both statements are models of expression. They deserve the wider
  circulation which, in this form, they promise to attain.”

       + =Dial= 62:406 My 3 ‘17 110w

       + =Ind= 90:353 My 19 ‘17 30w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:771 N ‘17 40w

  “The gift of making psychology read like an adventure story came to
  William James as to few, if any others. His gingery essays ‘On vital
  reserves’ are therefore well worth the while of the Henry Holt company
  in re-publishing.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 27 ‘17 200w


=JAMISON, EVELYN MARY, and others.= Italy, mediaeval and modern; a
history. (Histories of the belligerents ser.) *$2.90 (2c) Oxford 945
17-19811

  The present volume, covering the period from the barbarian invasions
  to 1915, has been written to supply the need for a general sketch of
  Italian history which should serve as an introduction to more detailed
  studies. The authors “have devoted considerable space to political and
  ecclesiastical history ... have called attention to the more
  remarkable achievements of the Italian spirit in the fields of art and
  philosophy and science, and the historical conditions which made these
  achievements possible, [and] finally, have traced, so far as it is
  possible to do so in a textbook, the working of those instincts ...
  which from age to age promoted or retarded the cause of national
  unity.” (Preface) Appended are an eight-page bibliography, tables of
  genealogies, and a list of the popes.

  “The appended lists of books, and other subsidiary matter, will be of
  great service to students; and the volume is well provided with maps.
  The index might with advantage have been fuller.”

     + — =Ath= p366 Jl ‘17 80w

  “Of the quartet of authors to whom we are indebted for this rather
  uninspired but extremely learned, sound, and valuable history of
  Italy, the last-named, Professor Terry of Aberdeen university, is the
  best known. ... There should certainly have been a chapter or a
  section to deal with literature since Goldoni, with music since
  Palestrina, with sculpture since Canova, with the novel since
  Boccaccio. ... The book answers the question, Why Italy entered the
  war. The authors are true philosophers of motives.” N. H. D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 820w

  “In Italy, more perhaps than in any other European country, the
  national history is interwoven with that of the church, and cannot be
  fairly presented unless church history receives its meed of studious
  attention and just judgment. These the authors of the present work
  have not seen fit to give it. Hence, while the work may have its
  partial uses as a reference book, it cannot be recommended as
  accurate, authoritative or comprehensive.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:267 N ‘17 160w

  “It may be doubted, however, whether they are correct in the reasons
  which they tentatively assign for the Libyan war; their bibliography
  of this period is not up to date; and no adequate attempt is made to
  fill the greatest blank in Italian history—that since 1870.” W. M.

     + — =Eng Hist R= 32:616 O ‘17 140w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p238 My 17 ‘17 50w

  “A clear outline of the subject. ... Each period has been treated by
  its author with full knowledge, and with a sympathy that secures the
  interest of the reader. ... The story of the foundation of the kingdom
  apparently written by Professor Sanford Terry, is a brilliant piece of
  work.”

 *   + + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p255 My 31 ‘17 1600w


=JARINTZOV, NADINE.= Russian poets and poems. 2v v 1 *$3.50 Longmans
891.7 17-27782

  This volume, to which Dr Jane Harrison of Newnham college contributes
  the preface, is by the author of “The Russians and their language.”
  “Madame Jarintzov first discusses the subject of Russian
  versification; and she compares the poverty of what she calls the
  ‘small squirrel’s wheel’ of English rhymes with the wealth of rhyming
  words in Russian. Many convincing examples are given in the
  introduction. For the most part biographically, but to some extent
  critically, the author then deals with the Russian poets I. A. Krylov,
  V. A. Jukovsky, A. S. Pushkin, A. V. Koltzov, M. Y. Lermontov, F. L.
  Tutchev, Alexei Tolstoy, N. Nekrasov, and A. A. Fet. Of their works
  Madame Jarintzov furnishes numerous examples, translated by herself;
  and in her renderings she, as a Russian, has endeavoured to carry over
  into English the Russian spirit, and, as far as possible, the Russian
  manner.” (Ath) “In a second volume it is intended to treat the modern
  poets in the same manner.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

       + =Ath= p413 Ag ‘17 140w

  “A fairly good biographical and critical essay on Nekrassov will be
  found in Mme N. Jarintzov’s ‘Russian poets and poems.’ In spite of her
  theory, which we cannot take seriously, Mme Jarintzov succeeds in
  producing some good translations. Nevertheless, her experiment in
  rendering Russian poetry, ‘along new lines’ can hardly be considered
  successful.” Abraham Yarmolinsky

     – + =Bookm= 46:485 D ‘17 320w

  “These poets, Pushkin and Lermontov excepted, are almost unknown to
  the average English reader. ... Upon the difficulty of rendering the
  spirit and the rhythm of Russian verse in English Madame Jarintzov
  writes with feeling and eloquence as one who has herself attempted the
  impossible. Yet in a high degree she has attained to it. ... Her work
  forms a valuable link between two great literatures.”

 *   + – =Sat R= 124:88 Ag 4 ‘17 1800w

  “We can bear witness to the accuracy of such of the versions as we
  have compared with the originals, and the Russian metres are
  reproduced with really astonishing success. Unfortunately we must add
  that the English reader knowing no Russian will too often be impressed
  by the queer un-English turns of phrase rather than by the poetic
  merit of the selected pieces.”

     + — =Spec= 119:331 S 29 ‘17 170w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p347 Jl 19 ‘17 380w

  “These poets use the same metres as we do, with some remarkable and
  pervading differences. To many Russians, even when they know our
  language well, English poetry does not seem to be poetry at all,
  because they miss the double rhymes. ... A second difference is the
  Russian avoidance of equivalent feet. ... Mme Jarintzov thinks it of
  capital importance to reproduce these peculiarities of her
  originals—the double rhymes and the exact syllabic correspondence. ...
  But she goes much farther than this; she attacks the established
  theory of translation.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p367 Ag 2 ‘17 1850w


=JARINTZOV, NADINE.= Russians and their language; with a preface by
Nevill Forbes. *$2.50 (6c) Kennerley 491.7 (Eng ed 17-10234)

  The author is a Russian woman who has lived in England and who writes
  in English. It is her belief that much of the bewilderment experienced
  by the English reader on first attempting to read Russian literature
  in translation is due to differences in language. In her introduction
  she discusses some of the problems of pronunciation and
  transliteration. The remainder of the work represents an attempt “to
  show the national character of the Russians as reflected in their
  language.”

  “Every time Madame Zharintsova publishes a book, she has a new way of
  spelling her own name. ... For the student of Russian there is much
  that is suggestive in this book. All the words used are given in an
  appendix in Russian with the proper accent. For those that love Russia
  there is much that is interpretive in her dispositions on slang and
  diminutive and word-play.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 My 5 ‘17 800w

  “A good deal in this book will doubtless mean little to one who knows
  nothing of the language; however, anyone interested in Russia may
  glean therein much of interest on its life, literature and
  psychology.”

     + — =Cleveland= p122 N ‘17 110w

  “Books by amateurs in any subject are not likely to be marked by
  accuracy, proportion, or solid judgment, but they often express points
  of view and shrewd comments on details for which specialists may be
  grateful. All this is true of ‘The Russians and their language.’ The
  writer has no knowledge of phonetics, so that her chatter about
  Russian pronunciation and transliteration is of the sort that darkens
  counsel.”

     – + =Nation= 105:265 S 6 ‘17 310w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:71 My ‘17

  “One very interesting feature of this little study is the
  interpretation of Russian literature from an accurately balanced
  Russian standpoint. Readers who have taken the younger authors
  overseriously as typically Russian will be surprised to learn that an
  average Russian after speaking about them feels inclined to take a
  deep breath of fresh air.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:330 S 9 ‘17 550w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:536 Je ‘17 60w

  “The intelligent student of Russian will be fascinated by this clever
  book—the work of a Russian lady who knows English extremely well, and
  is therefore able to interpret with quite exceptional fidelity the
  character of the Russian language. ... Mme Jarintzov’s comments on the
  great authors are most illuminating, though all too brief, and her
  hints on pronunciation are invaluable.”

       + =Spec= 117:479 O 21 ‘16 160w

  “There is a section on pronunciation and transliteration, but we do
  not think (and here Mr Nevill Forbes, who supplies a preface, seems to
  agree with us) that much light is thrown on either of these dark
  regions. Russian sounds can be learnt only from the living voice. ...
  The merits of the book, which are great, lie elsewhere. ... The author
  takes a large number of linguistic facts, and shows from them that the
  Russian language is a true reflection of the Russian character.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p414 Ag 31 ‘16 900w


=JASPER, MME.= Flemish system of poultry rearing. il *$1.50 Scribner
636.5

  “The Belgian poultry-rearing industry has attained great dimensions;
  and in this volume Mme Jasper (who possessed at Tongres a large
  establishment for the breeding and management of poultry for table
  use) describes wherein Flemish methods excel those customary in
  England. The distinctive feature of the Flemish system is that the
  birds are sheltered from cold and damp, provided with plenty of air
  without any draught, kept in a mild and carefully regulated
  temperature, and put to sleep in a clean and spacious brooder.”—Ath

       + =Ath= p429 S ‘16 200w

         =St Louis= 15:113 Ap ‘17 30w

       + =Spec= 117:417 O 7 ‘16 400w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p613 D 14 ‘16 900w


=JASTROW, MORRIS.=[2] War and the Bagdad railway. il *$1.50 (4c)
Lippincott 940.91 18-1122

  A timely presentation of one of the most important single factors
  contributing to the present war. Because the full import of the
  railroad venture is made clear in the light of the history of Asia
  Minor, the author traces that history and its relation to the
  civilization of antiquity thru the period of Greek, Roman, Parthian
  and Arabic control down to the conquest by the Ottoman Turks. Then he
  proceeds with the story of the railroad thru which he follows the
  growth of hostile rivalry among European nations terminating in the
  great war. Step by step the writer follows the change in the project
  from a commercial scheme to a political one in which Germany
  ambitiously aims to get the mastery of the East. The solution offered
  is to throw open the road to the East but urges that its control be
  neither German nor British but international.

  “Of all the books that have come to our notice, works dealing
  primarily with the problem of Bagdad, Professor Morris Jastrow’s ‘The
  war and the Bagdad railway’ with its illustrative map, is
  unquestionably the best.” S. A.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 5 ‘18 930w

       + =Lit D= 56:36 F 9 ‘18 1350w

  “Professor Jastrow is hard to match for brevity and clearness,
  although he adds little that is new to the discussion of the present
  problem.” A. J.

     + — =New Repub= 13:257 D 29 ‘17 1000w

  “Not from the patriots with their hands over their ears, nor from the
  pacifists with their hands over their eyes, but from such accurate
  thinkers as Dr Jastrow do we make the first patient beginnings in the
  unsnarling of the war problem. It is not easy these days to write as a
  student of history and not as a partisan, but it would be difficult to
  doubt the justice of Dr Jastrow’s claim to this position.” Doris Webb

       + =Pub W= 93:215 Ja 19 ‘18 550w

  “Professor Jastrow is a high authority in the field of Semitic
  languages. ... His studies of the ancient peoples of Asia Minor and
  Mesopotamia have been extended to an accurate knowledge of the present
  peoples and conditions. He has thus been able to give us a remarkable
  valuable account of the recent rivalries of the great European powers
  in Asiatic Turkey, and in his newest book he tells the story of the
  Bagdad railway more instructively for American readers than any other
  writer has yet done.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:214 F ‘18 170w


=JATAKAS.= Jataka tales; selected and ed., with introd. and notes, by H:
T: Francis and E: J. Thomas. il *$2.50 (1½c) Putnam 398.3 (Eng ed
17-18045)

  “Jataka tales” are Hindu folktales. They are commonly referred to as
  “Buddhist birth-stories,” but Mr Thomas in the introduction points out
  that their origin is pre-buddhistic. This introduction considers also
  the relation of the tales of those of Aesop. The aim of the editors
  has been to bring together the stories “of most interest, both
  intrinsically, and also from the point of view of the folklorist.” The
  translations are taken from the complete edition translated under the
  editorship of Prof. E. B. Cowell, Cambridge, 1895-1907.

  “The Jataka stories included in the present collection exhibit many
  features of interest to the student of folk-lore; and at the same time
  the English renderings run so smoothly that readers who seek merely
  entertainment will find plenty of it here.”

       + =Ath= p95 F ‘17 150w

  “From one point of view their work is of an encyclopædic character,
  from another it is thoroughly human composition. They have retold
  stories of the world’s childhood in such vigorous prose that the
  children upon whom the ends of the world are come will read with
  avidity what they have written.” Bishop Frodsham

       + =Sat R= 123:sup5 My 19 ‘17 520w

  “Type and page are of excellent size, the editing is entirely
  trustworthy, and the illustrations are taken from the representations
  of the Jataka tales carved on the Stupa of Bharhut, discovered by Sir
  A. Cunningham in 1873 and dating from 250-200 B.C. ... To this day
  there is no book so beloved by humble eastern folk as this book. There
  is a mighty, enthusiastic audience for the recital of it at this very
  present in Ceylon. For us of the West it gives us glimpses of the
  permanent life of the people such as is seldom afforded us in other
  Indian literature.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p138 Mr 22 ‘17 1900w


=JEFFERSON, CHARLES EDWARD.= Land of enough; a Christmas story. *50c
(9c) Crowell 17-24813

  The moral lesson of this little book is effective because it is
  presented with a saving touch of humor that removes it from the
  “Sunday-school” type of story. Max and Madge never had enough of
  anything. Max always wanted more time to play, more time to sleep,
  more of something to eat. Madge wanted more clothes and more of a
  dozen other things that girls of seventeen do want. And it was quite
  in vain that her mother compared Madge’s wardrobe with her own when
  she was a girl, for, as the author says, “there are comparisons which
  are odious, and this is one of them.” And then suddenly the “Land of
  enough” is really achieved, and is found to be a quite barren country.

  “An effective sermon on the Christmas spirit.”

       + =Cath World= 106:412 D ‘17 170w

       + =Ind= 92:446 D 1 ‘17 20w


=JEKYLL, GERTRUDE.= Annuals and biennials; with cultural notes by E. H.
Jenkins. il *$3 Scribner 716 17-15076

  “This addition to Miss Jekyll’s garden books, always acceptable to the
  aesthetic gardener, consists on pp. 57-156 of an alphabetical list,
  with description of culture, of the best annuals and biennials;
  following introductory chapters on various sides of the subject,
  including one by Mr Jenkins on ‘Raising annuals in green-house or
  frame.’ At the end is a chart of colour and height and a list of
  selections for various purposes and aspects. The book is fully
  illustrated by full-page photographs and some coloured plates.”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

         =N Y Times= 22:297 Ag 12 ‘17 70w

       + =Spec= 118:49 Ja 13 ‘17 70w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p615 D 14 ‘16 90w


=JENKINS, BURRIS ATKINS.= Man in the street and religion. *$1.25 Revell
17-11447

  “A stimulating and virile book by the chaplain of a regiment in the
  Missouri militia, who is also pastor of a church of 2000 members in
  Kansas City, and a keen sportsman. He believes everybody of all
  conditions and classes is religious, and he makes a series of appeals
  to this unconscious faith.”—Springf’d Republican

  “An exceptionally readable and suggestive demonstration of the
  proposition that everyone is religious at heart, coupled with a
  delineation of the kind of Christianity which will appeal to the
  average man.”

       + =Ind= 91:137 Jl 28 ‘17 70w

  “The book is brightly written, and abounds in anecdote and quotation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 My 18 ‘17 130w


=JENKINS, HERBERT GEORGE.= Bindle; the story of a cheerful soul. *$1.35
(2c) Stokes 16-22980

  Joseph Bindle is a furniture-mover by profession, a calling which is
  “fraught with many vicissitudes and hardships.” Of Bindle himself, we
  are told: “Two things in life he loved above all others, beer and
  humor (or, as he called it, his ‘little joke’); yet he permitted
  neither to interfere with the day’s work, save under very exceptional
  circumstances.” Of Mrs Bindle, her husband says, “She thinks too much
  o’ soap an’ ‘er soul to make an ‘owlin’ success o’ marriage.” The
  story consists of a series of episodes from the life of Bindle.
  Herbert Jenkins, the author, is the British publisher of that name.

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:60 N ‘17

       + =Ath= p480 O ‘16 120w

  “Those who like Charlie Chaplin—and his popularity must have a very
  genuine foundation—will thoroughly appreciate Bindle. There is nothing
  illusive, nothing subtle, about his style of humor. It is as general
  in its appeal as was the earlier work of Mark Twain, and it possesses
  something of the same quality of humanness.”

         =Bellman= 22:441 Ap 21 ‘17 230w

  “The humor of the book is slap-stick comedy and sometimes it is too
  obviously planned, but parts of it are entertaining.”

         =Ind= 90:299 My 12 ‘17 50w

       + =N Y Times= 22:40 F 4 ‘17 350w

         =Sat R= 122:395 O 21 ‘16 150w

  “For the most part very good fun.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p452 S 21 ‘16 300w


=JENKINS, HERBERT GEORGE.=[2] Night club. *5s Herbert Jenkins, London

  “Bindle, ‘J. B.’ to his friends, was responsible for dignifying as The
  night club the weekly gatherings of several totally unlike men who had
  formed a habit of meeting in the flat of one of their number for a
  smoke, a drink and a yarn. ... A story being the principal business of
  the evenings, the author has ingeniously woven those that were told
  into a humorous account of several adventures of the members, their
  families and friends. ... The actors include principally, first and
  foremost Bindle; his wife and her brother, both afflicted with a
  peculiar sort of religion; Angell Herald, the publicity agent who
  dreamed that he had been asked by the prime minister to be minister of
  publicity; ‘The boy,’ who had won his D.S.O. early in the war, but who
  didn’t like to hear about it; Gimp, the actor, whose story was
  surprisingly better than he or his acting; the old general who
  considered it a privilege to talk to the men of the new army; and Miss
  Sallie, who did what the whole German navy had failed to do—tricked
  the British navy.”—Boston Transcript

  “Bindle is the central figure, though he does not give his name to the
  book, and his genial shrewdness and candour win our appreciation as
  they did that of the very varied membership of the club.”

       + =Ath= p680 D ‘17 70w

  “The present volume is happily conceived in that it may be taken up
  and enjoyed in spare moments or read through at one sitting; in either
  case the reader will be filled with a sense of the warmth of its
  geniality and wit.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 5 ‘18 450w

  “A large percentage of readers will close this volume with a sincere
  wish that they, too, might become members of ‘The night club.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:565 D 16 ‘17 500w

  “The stories should amuse a larger circle; for they are unfailingly
  lively and show much fertility of idea.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p547 N 8 ‘17 100w


=JENKS, JEREMIAH WHIPPLE.=[2] Trust problem; 4th ed., enl. and
completely rev., with the collaboration of Walter E. Clark, diags *$2
(1c) Doubleday 338.8 17-28340

  This so-called “Bible on industrial combinations,” by the director of
  the division of public affairs, New York university, becomes
  practically a new book in its fourth edition. “Some new chapters have
  been added. Chapter 1 on the Evolution of business, the very large
  additions made to Chapter 9 on Prices, Chapter 10 on Trusts and the
  working man, with the new facts that they contain, aid materially in
  the discussion of the economic principles involved. Chapter 12 on
  Industrial combinations in Europe gives us a basis of wide experience.
  The new chapters on State and federal trust legislation in the United
  States, and the one on Trusts and the federal court, showing the
  development of legislation during the last few years, likewise serve
  to strengthen the economic foundation of the discussions, since the
  course of legislation has, to a considerable degree, clearly been
  based upon the principles brought out in the theoretical discussions.”
  (Preface to fourth edition)

  “In our judgment, no other single volume on the subject of industrial
  combinations, their development, structure, and problems, equals this
  one for compact information, breadth of view, and the variety of facts
  presented. The book bears evidence of careful planning and patient
  work, and is suggestive of the systematic and exhaustive work with
  which German scholars are credited.” James Oneal

       + =N Y Call= p16 Ja 19 ‘18 260w

       + =R of Rs= 57:220 F ‘18 70w


=JEROME, JEROME KLAPKA.= Street of the blank wall, and other stories
(Eng title, Malvina of Brittany). *$1.35 (2c) Dodd 16-23590

  The first story in this collection of six is a tale of mystery in
  which the real truth about a murder is brought to light fifteen years
  after its commitment. The second story “Malvina of Brittany,” the
  longest story in the book is also the lightest. Malvina is a fay or
  pixie transported from the pages of old English romance to modern
  Britain. Each of the four that follow, His evening out, The lesson,
  Sylvia of the letters, The fawn gloves, represents a different type of
  short story.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:267 Mr ‘17

  “Altogether, it is not a particularly rewarding volume.” F. I.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ap 14 ‘17 480w

  “Mr Jerome writes with sincerity, with feeling for reality, with some
  insight into the deeper possibilities of life, with a feeling for what
  is lovely as well as of good report. And that sort of thing is in
  itself good, better, I should say, than a striving for virility.” E:
  E. Hale

       + =Dial= 62:190 Mr 8 ‘17 250w

       + =N Y Times= 22:40 F 4 ‘17 550w

  “The stories doubtless have been written at wide intervals and add
  little to Mr Jerome’s reputation.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Mr 4 ‘17 100w

  “Most of these stories are written at greater length than is
  necessary, and part of what is superfluous is also irrelevant; we
  should infer, indeed, that Mr Jerome is too preoccupied with
  edification to take much thought for form. No such criticism, however,
  is applicable to ‘The fawn gloves.’”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p476 O 5 ‘16 450w


=JESSE, FRYNIWYD TENNYSON.= Secret bread. *$1.50 (1c) Doran 17-20670

  “The story tells how a bastard was elevated above his legitimate
  brethren, and surmounted his difficulties by the help of a fine-minded
  pastor; and in addition we have most graphic and intimate studies of
  [English] farming and the improvements that a progressive landowner
  introduces.”—Ath

       + =Ath= p363 Jl ‘17 100w

  “The abiding impression left by the book as a whole is of a large and
  sympathetic interpretation of human experience, though set in a minor
  key.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:486 D ‘17 600w

  “‘Secret bread’ is a narrative at heart starkly chill. As a whole, it
  is undubitably powerful, with many pages of prose of the first rank.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p9 D 19 ‘17 330w

  “It gratefully lacks the famous brilliancy of the ‘younger British
  school’ of novelists. It has solidity, not only in its portraiture,
  but in its embodiment of a truth, or, if you will, a moral, as
  contrasted with the expression of an ‘idea’ in the Wellsian sense.
  This is a book of rich texture, both in form and in substance.”

       + =Nation= 105:515 N 8 ‘17 580w

  “The story is written with a wealth of detail and a great number and
  variety of characters. All the people in it, notwithstanding their
  strongly marked differences of social position and mental endowment
  are delineated with subtility and truth.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:413 O 21 ‘17 550w

  “The author shows great sympathy for the very young and the old. ... A
  little reserve of force would have been more telling than the almost
  camera-like detail in which she prefers to indulge—detail that is
  sometimes wearying, and often coarse and offensive.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:50 Jl 21 ‘17 300w

  “The book is very generously planned, like the English novels of an
  earlier day. And now and then we find Miss Jesse straying a little too
  widely from her main theme.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p272 Je 7 ‘17 670w


=JOHNS, CECIL STARR.= With gold and steel. *$1.25 (1½c) Lane 17-28765

  A romance of France in the time of Henry of Navarre. The hero is
  François Le Pouldu who comes to Henry with a tale of treasure that he
  is ready to devote to the king’s service. On a lonely coast he has
  come upon a wrecked Spanish galleon, loaded with gold, silver and
  arms. The king furnishes the outfit necessary for salvaging the cargo
  and François starts on his adventures. Denise de Marmont, sister of
  one of Henry’s enemies, early enters the tale to give it the required
  feminine element.

  “We congratulate Mr Johns on his ability to get out of the beaten
  track of the average novel of sword and cloak into the field of fresh
  plot.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 N 14 ‘17 210w

  “Those who like stirring, old-fashioned historical romance, served
  with something of the dignity and leisurely manner of the Stanley
  Weyman novels, will enjoy this story by Mr Johns. ... The characters
  all do a great deal of talking, but it is conversation that helps to
  carry on the story, which it does with brightness, vivacity, and
  humor.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:571 D 23 ‘17 330w


=JOHNS, ORRICK G.= Asphalt, and other poems. *$1.25 Knopf 811 17-13553

  Mr Johns’s poem “Second avenue,” which was awarded a prize in a poetry
  contest a few years ago, is included in this collection of poems. The
  book takes its title from the group of street ballads with which it
  opens. The remaining groups that compose its contents are: Country
  rhymes; The city; Old youth; Three women; Ebb sand and stars.

  “Nothing could afford a better illustration of the fact that poetry
  which addresses itself to current issues or social conditions will
  grow passé, like a last year’s garment, than the lack of interest
  which one feels now in a poem like ‘Second avenue.’ The same criticism
  applies to the opening section of ‘Asphalt,’ to the street ballads, in
  gutter dialect, through which Mr Johns hits off social conditions.
  ‘Country rhymes,’ whose title must not mislead one into thinking they
  are rustic verses, take one captive from the start. They are full of
  charm and whimsicality, but something much deeper is in them, too.
  ‘Asphalt’ demonstrates the fact that Mr Johns has versatility and a
  poetic gift of no common order.” J. B. Rittenhouse

     + — =Bookm= 46:578 Ja ‘18 750w

  “One could wish that he had omitted the dialect poems at the beginning
  of his book, but in reading many of the lyrics which compose the rest
  one experiences little but delight. Not only has Mr Johns a very
  seductive gift of melody, but at times he has what is rare among
  contemporary American poets, charm,—which is only one degree removed
  from magic.” Conrad Aiken

       + =Dial= 62:476 My 31 ‘17 320w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:85 Je ‘17

  “On the whole, ‘Country rhymes,’ and the section called ‘Old youth,’
  contain the best poetry of the book, the other portions seeming to us
  not so much absolute achievement as clever experiment or good
  promise.”

         =N Y Times= 22:207 My 27 ‘17 150w

  “Has melodic freshness and contains much essential poesy.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:661 Je ‘17 80w

  “Orrick Johns reveals himself as a young poet of considerable
  individuality but little poetry.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 270w


=JOHNSON, BURGES.= Well of English and the bucket. *$1.25 (5½c) Little
808 17-26881

  A collection of essays on the writing of English. The author is
  assistant professor of English at Vassar college and he writes from
  the point of view of one who has tried to break away from the stilted
  academic traditions in English teaching. Some of the essays are
  reprinted from Harper’s and the Century. Contents: The well of English
  and the bucket; Grammar, the bane of boyhood; Impression and
  expression; Essaying an essay; The right not to laugh; The everyday
  profanity of our best people; Ethics of the pen.

  “Seven essays, written clearly, convincingly and with a touch of
  humor.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:79 D ‘17

  “This writer is interesting; he puts old views freshly, he urges new
  ones with effect.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 26 ‘17 280w

  “The author is able not only to teach the students in his English
  classes how to write but he can give them good models from his own
  light, lucid and vigorous pen.”

       + =Ind= 92:536 D 15 ‘17 380w

         =Outlook= 117:350 O 31 ‘17 70w

  “‘The well of English and the bucket’ is a thoughtful piece of work
  with a very clever title. Its author has pondered much upon the
  educational and practical problems of writing without missing their
  difficulties, and, at the same time, without representing the
  situation as altogether hopeless.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 N 16 ‘17 250w


=JOHNSON, CLIFTON.= New England; a human interest geographical reader.
il *$1 Macmillan 917.4 17-8898

  “The aim of the author is to furnish interesting and valuable
  supplementary reading material for the upper elementary grades. The
  facts are drawn from geology, nature, history, industry, biography,
  literature, legend, and humor, and are selected with the idea of
  entertaining and instructing the reader. The general plan of treatment
  is first to devote a few chapters to New England as a whole and then
  to treat each of the six states separately. In dealing with each state
  the plan is to devote a chapter or two to historical beginnings and
  the remainder to industries, natural scenery, and famous people and
  places. There are about two hundred well-selected illustrations.”—El
  School J

  “Beautifully illustrated geographical reader. ... The author betrays
  his prejudice by absolute silence regarding all things Catholic.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:693 Ag ‘17 60w

         =Cleveland= p127 N ‘17 20w

         =Educ= 56:174 F ‘18 40w

  “Outside of New England the book will be of little practical value as
  a supplementary reader. If such material is used in school, it should
  treat of the community in which it is studied. The great value of Mr
  Johnson’s book to communities outside of New England is to indicate
  the types of local material which can be utilized in a study of one’s
  near or immediate locality.”

         =El School J= 17:773 Je ‘17 220w

  “Thru all the descriptions runs a personal touch that appeals to
  children. The pictures are most helpful.”

       + =Ind= 91:229 Ag 11 ‘17 50w

  “His methods are somewhat unique, and include a combination of the
  historical and the descriptive.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:229 Je 17 ‘17 380w


=JOHNSON, DOUGLAS WILSON.= Peril of Prussianism. *75c (1c) Putnam 940.91
17-22576

  This is “the substance of an address delivered by the associate
  professor of physiography in Columbia university before the annual
  convention of the Iowa Bankers association at Des Moines on June 14,
  1917.” (Foreword) His argument is that the American ideal and the
  Prussian ideal of government “are mutually antagonistic, and cannot
  long exist in the world side by side,” because the “very existence of
  the Prussian ideal depends upon an aggressive militarism.”

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

       — =Bookm= 46:289 N ‘17 20w

  “One of the most interesting features of the book is a series of
  historical maps showing the area controlled by the Hohenzollern
  dynasty in succeeding centuries, from the origin of the Brandenburg
  monarchy to the present day.”

       + =Ind= 91:352 S 1 ‘17 80w

         =R of Rs= 56:549 N ‘17 50w

  “A vigorous indictment of Prussian methods.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p395 Ag 16 ‘17 60w


=JOHNSON, DOUGLAS WILSON.=[2] Topography and strategy in the war. il
*$1.75 (3c) Holt 940.91 17-27768

  An analysis of the topography of each of the most important theaters
  of war, together with a summary of the principal campaigns, pointing
  out how military operations have been influenced by the surface
  features of the country. One object is to emphasize the relationship
  between inanimate nature and the science of war. Another is to place
  before the reader such a picture of each theater of war as shall
  enable him to follow with greater ease and livelier interest the
  movements of our own and our allied troops. Good maps, diagrams and
  illustrations generously supplement the text.

  “A remarkably suggestive book with few technical terms, which will
  need to be consulted by future historians of the war.”

       + =Cleveland= p1 Ja ‘18 80w

         =Outlook= 117:654 D 19 ‘17 40w

  “An excellent beginning has been made in the treatment of this rather
  difficult subject and additional chapters will be demanded as new
  campaigns bring other regions within the area of active warfare.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:101 Ja ‘18 120w


=JOHNSON, JOSEPH ESREY, jr.= Blast-furnace construction in America. il
*$4 McGraw 669.8 17-9602

  “The author of ‘Blast furnace construction’ has been a student of the
  blast furnace on both the theoretical and the practical side for a
  number of years, and has given to the furnace-man many valuable and
  instructive papers bearing on the operation and control of this most
  complex of all metallurgical processes. The present volume deals fully
  with the construction of the furnace proper, from an early date up to
  the present time, and considers in detail all the adjuncts that play
  an important part in the production of pig iron.”—Nation

         =A L A Bkl= 14:46 N ‘17

  “This comprehensive work, based partly upon investigations by the
  author, fills a long felt want in metallurgical literature. ... Of
  especial note is the chapter on the dry blast.”

         =Bul N Y Public Library= 21:483 Jl ‘17 100w

       + =Cleveland= p96 Jl ‘17 50w

  “The chapter on distribution of stock in the furnace proper is well
  worth the price of the book, as probably more troubles in
  blast-furnace operation are traceable to poor distribution than to all
  others combined. The chapter on washing and cleaning gas could well
  have been enlarged in scope. ... The intention to amplify this work by
  another on blast-furnace operation will be awaited with interest by
  the producers of pig iron and allied products.” C: E. Lehr

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:129 Jl 19 ‘17 300w

  “There seems to be nothing of importance upon which Mr Johnson has not
  touched from the laying of the foundation to the last detail in the
  completion of a modern blast furnace. His book will be indispensable
  as a work of reference in every metallurgical establishment in the
  country.”

       + =Nation= 104:766 Je 28 ‘17 230w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17

  “Very useful work on arrangement and construction, and to some extent
  on mechanical features of operation. Not concerned with metallurgical
  problems. For this subject see Robert Forsythe’s ‘Blast furnace and
  the manufacture of pig iron,’ 1909.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:423 My ‘17 30w

  “The series of articles on blast construction and operation which
  appeared in several numbers of Metallurgical and Chemical Engineering,
  is a thorough covering of the subject in the compass allowed by the
  405 pages utilized.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:456 My ‘17 40w (Reprinted from Blast Furnace
         and Steel Plant p190 Ap ‘17)

  “Authoritative treatise.”

       + =Pratt= p20 Jl ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:175 Je ‘17


=JOHNSON, LIONEL PIGOT.= Religious poems. *$1 Macmillan 821

  “This selection from the most directly religious poems of the late
  Lionel Johnson has been made by Mr George F. Engelbach, and Mr Meynell
  contributes an appreciative and sympathetic preface to a volume which
  will be welcomed by many admirers of the poet.”—Ath

  “‘Friends,’ ‘Winchester close,’ and ‘A dream of youth’ are specially
  appealing and sympathetic.”

       + =Ath= p44 Ja ‘17 60w

  “Johnson’s poems, written after his admission into the Catholic
  church, are resonant with faith and tender with devotion.
  Nevertheless, there is not in them that ring of anguish, of personal
  need, of mystical rapture that arrests us in the poetry of Francis
  Thompson.”

       + =Cleveland= p75 Je ‘17 100w (Reprinted from the Dial)

  Reviewed by O. W. Firkins

     + — =Nation= 105:597 N 29 ‘17 30w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:62 Ap ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:136 My ‘17

  “It is, perhaps, a question whether these selected poems have not the
  effect of rendering somewhat too definitely a ruling temperament. ...
  Many might prefer to meet this singer’s most directly religious poems
  amid the lighter environment out of which they have been taken. Of the
  attractive quality of their nobility, fervour, and sincerity there can
  be no doubt. Only—they present the austere outlook on gifts of earthly
  joy.”

       + =Sat R= 123:577 Je 23 ‘17 900w

  “A series of poems of personal aspiration, and a series devoted to the
  celebration of friendship both reveal a striking kinship of spirit
  with the religious verse of Digby Markworth Dolben, recently edited by
  Mr Bridges, and in both cases constitute the poet’s main contribution
  to the not very large body of English sacred poetry of a high order.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p66 F 8 ‘17 1050w


=JOHNSON, ROSSITER.= Fight for the Republic. il *$2.50 (2½c) Putnam
973.7 17-5857

  The subtitle calls this “a narrative of the more noteworthy events in
  the War of secession, presenting the great contest in its dramatic
  aspects.” It does not aim to be a complete history of the Civil war.
  As the author defines his purpose, it is “to set forth clearly such of
  the greater events as either constituted turning-points or distinctly
  advanced or retarded the general movement toward the end.” There are a
  number of folding maps, and several portraits.

  “In 1910 the author published ‘A history of the war of secession,’ the
  military chapters of which are now reprinted under a separate title.
  The present volume excludes practically everything except military
  history, and on this side presents little that is not found in the
  former volume. Students of the war period will find nothing new in
  ‘The fight for the Republic,’ while for those who are taking up the
  subject for the first time the book is not to be recommended because
  it is too one-sided.”

       — =Am Hist R= 23:222 O ‘17 250w

  “Facts are well backed up by figures. ... A valuable feature of the
  work is found in the illustrations. There are sketch maps of all the
  principal battlefields.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p14 Ap 7 ‘17 380w

       + =Cath World= 105:409 Je ‘17 170w

  “The limitations of the work are considerable. ... It is hardly
  possible to write, in this day, a valuable history of the Civil war
  without devoting some attention to the non-military aspects of the
  period, but for Mr Johnson these matters evidently have little
  interest. For one who wishes to get a brief description of a battle or
  a campaign as seen from the Union side, this work will serve well; but
  he who wishes to read understandingly of the fight for the Union must
  go elsewhere—for example, to Mr Rhodes—for a more comprehensive
  account.”

     + — =Dial= 62:318 Ap 5 ‘17 300w

       + =Educ R= 54:97 Je ‘17 30w

  “It cannot be recommended to students familiar with the work of
  Burgess, Rhodes, Ropes, Wood and Edmunds and Formby, but will be
  useful to any one making a beginning in the field.”

         =Ind= 91:34 Jl 7 ‘17 100w

  “Rossiter Johnson has long been recognized as a historian who builds
  dramatically on a foundation of well-verified facts. This—his third
  important book on the Civil war in America—seems to leave little more
  to be said on a subject not easily exhausted.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:116 Ap 1 ‘17 1500w

       + =Spec= 119:sup630 D 1 ‘17 100w

  “The facts concerning the nation’s great struggle can always be
  portrayed in a new way, and that is what Rossiter Johnson has done.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 12 ‘17 220w


=JOHNSON, WILLIS FLETCHER.= America and the great war for humanity and
freedom, il *$1.50 (2c) Winston 940.91 17-17290

  “Eight chapters of this book review the antecedents of the war, and
  the stories of the different states which entered the war in 1914. The
  six following chapters describe the war as fought in the different
  countries and upon the sea and in the air. Three chapters give the
  story of America’s relations with Germany while she tried to be
  neutral. Then follow some chapters which describe the resources,
  actual and potential, of the United States, discuss how modern wars
  are waged, etc. Among these are brief chapters on women and war work,
  universal military service, the Monroe doctrine, and the flag. The
  book is illustrated with photographs and maps.” (Boston Transcript)
  The author is honorary professor of the history of American foreign
  relations in New York university.

  “The author has been for many years a student of American history,
  especially in its foreign relations, and he has carefully followed the
  progress of the war from the beginning. The results of his study have
  appeared in the Transcript and other papers, and now he has gathered
  them together in this volume which is one of the most enlightening
  which have appeared up to the present time.” F. W. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 550w

  “For those who like to have a popular ‘vade mecum’ of narrative,
  argument, and statistics, opening with the ‘Battle hymn of the
  Republic’ and closing with the ‘Star-spangled banner,’ the volume
  should prove serviceable. The hundred and more maps and illustrations
  are, as a rule, well executed.”

     + — =Nation= 105:322 S 20 ‘17 150w

  “One of the important works of reference on the war. Of great
  timeliness to the student of current events.”

       + =Outlook= 116:592 Ag 15 ‘17 110w


=JOHNSON, WILLIS FLETCHER.= America’s foreign relations. 2v il *$6 (2c)
Century 327.73 16-9786

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “Although rarely brilliant, the style is at all times clear, while
  some chapters, notably those on Hawaii, Samoa, and Far Eastern
  relations possess a fascination to be found only in really fine
  historical writing. ... The index is adequate; the book has neither
  footnotes nor bibliography. ... Most of the errors made by the author
  are of minor importance in themselves, but taken together perhaps show
  an uneven grasp upon all parts of the subject, and at times an
  inadequate background of political and constitutional history. ...
  Despite these and numerous other inaccuracies, and the limitations,
  from the scholarly viewpoint, imposed by its ‘popular’ character, Mr
  Johnson’s book is the most complete, most readable, and altogether the
  best account that has been given of America’s foreign relations.”
  Ralston Hayden

 *     + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:156 F ‘17 1400w

  “The book is readable, and at the same time weighty, and, on the
  whole, remarkably accurate and impartial. ... The determining factors
  of American foreign policy are presented to us, correctly, as governed
  not by theoretical but by practical considerations. It is this which
  will give it its peculiar value in educating American opinion. ... At
  the present time when it is of capital importance that the British
  public should realize what are the really determining motives of
  American policy, this book should be read by every one who is capable
  of understanding it. Mr Johnson’s account of America’s attitude from
  the beginning towards the question of ‘the freedom of the seas’ is,
  alone, of great educative value.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p62 F 8 ‘17 1550w


=JOHNSTON, MARY.= The wanderers. *$1.75 (1½c) Houghton 17-24277

  From the woman of the tree-folk who discovered fire and the uses of
  the long stick, down thru the ages, Miss Johnston traces the progress,
  now forward, now back, of women. The cave woman who taught the
  wanderer man that it is good for two to be together, Gata of the long
  house, who disclosed the mystery of paternity, Vana who gave away the
  mother-right and established inheritance thru the male line, Lindane
  the Amazon, Myrina the courtesan, Valeria the Roman wife, and Alleda,
  the Goth who brought Christianity to her people, are some of the
  figures who stand out in the narrative, which, loosely constructed as
  it intentionally is, is held together by the thread that follows the
  gradual strengthening, refining and sweetening of the love tie that
  binds man and woman. The story approaches modern times only so far as
  the French revolution.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:96 D ‘17

  “An impressive departure from the author’s usual field.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:342 N ‘17 50w

  “It is due to the really fine art of the author that she makes the
  reader become wholly interested in each of her nineteen sets of
  characters, though only the space of a single chapter is allotted to
  any one set of characters. Remembering that each one of these chapters
  has to be built up about some phase of the same subject, we gain some
  realization of the breadth and difficulty of the task. ... The book is
  unusual and only an author of the deep insight and the dramatic
  intensity of Miss Johnston could have made it so revealing.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 3 ‘17 1250w

  “The book voices in fictional form feminine unrest, without a
  sufficient disguise for its purpose to be successful. In other words,
  the artist in Miss Johnston has been pretty thoroughly stifled here by
  the feminist.”

       — =Cath World= 106:400 D ‘17 280w

         =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 50w

  “Miss Johnston’s new book shows the same primary weakness that we have
  found in all her work. This is the weakness of the long face. We
  suspect that Miss Johnston’s later work has bored a good many people
  who have approached it with the best intentions. It has no light and
  shade; it is all done with the down stroke. ‘The wanderers’ is
  uncommonly hard reading.”

       — =Nation= 105:487 N 1 ‘17 450w

  “It is a grindstone for the feminist axe. ... The love stories are in
  themselves typical and appealing, though on the whole monotonous and
  unvaried by any insight of the depths and chasms between lovers. This
  does not mean that there are no tragedies, but only that the attitude
  between lovers is that of lovers in a book—when they are happy it is
  as protagonists, and unhappy, as tragic exemplars. They exult in terms
  of uncritical idealism, and they die as badly.” J. L.

     – + =New Repub= 13:289 Ja 5 ‘18 430w

  “The idea is an interesting and a very ambitious one, and though the
  book as a whole would be more effective were it not so extremely long,
  many of the tales are interesting in themselves, containing color and
  a good deal of drama.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:365 S 30 ‘17 550w

         =Outlook= 117:386 N 7 ‘17 30w

  “They preserve to an extraordinary degree the atmosphere and probable
  perspective of life of the periods they represent.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:557 N ‘17 90w

  “The book is a fine piece of imaginative writing—a landmark in the
  season’s fiction—and enhances Miss Johnston’s already conspicuous
  position in American letters. ... It is a book for the
  discriminating.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 7 ‘17 430w


=JOHNSTON, WILLIAM ANDREW.= “Limpy,” the boy who felt neglected. il
*$1.35 (2c) Little 17-7454

  He had a good home, a kind father, a sympathetic mother and two
  brothers who did their best to be thoughtful, but he wasn’t happy. His
  nickname, “Limpy,” explained why, for he wore an ugly iron brace and
  couldn’t run or fight or play games like other boys. Then he made
  friends with an old Civil war soldier who had only one leg. Their
  common bond drew them together, and reassured by this new friend,
  Limpy found courage to go on bravely till the time came when a
  surgical operation cured his lameness and made him like other boys.

     – + =A L A Bkl= 13:316 Ap ‘17

  “Mr Johnston has achieved a task as delicate as difficult. He has
  disclosed the heart of a boy with a tenderness which has no trace of
  sentimentality.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 24 ‘17 280w

  “Huck Finn and Penrod have, between them, made all the other boys of
  fiction seem a little tame. Were it not for them, ‘Limpy’ would be a
  capital boy story. As it is, it runs a close second in places,
  although its hero exhibits something of the lamentable ‘glad’ mania
  that has recently affected all the little girls of fiction.”

       + =Dial= 62:147 F 22 ‘17 120w

       + =N Y Times= 22:75 Mr 4 ‘17 200w

  Reviewed by R. D. Moore

       + =Pub W= 91:586 F 17 ‘17 450w

  “Unfortunately, the book lacks the humor that one associates with
  stories about boys; but its naturalness, both as to speech and action,
  goes far to compensate for this deficiency.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 2 ‘17 300w


=JOIRE, PAUL MARTIAL JOSEPH.= Psychical and supernormal phenomena, their
observation and experimentation. il *$3 (1½c) Stokes 134 (Eng ed
17-9817)

  Dr Joire is a professor at the Psycho-physiological institute of
  France and president of the Société universelle d’études psychiques.
  “This book deals with such subjects as multiple personality,
  ‘motricity,’ haunted houses, telepathy, crystal-gazing, levitation,
  materialization, automatic writing, and the like. It is claimed that
  psychical phenomena have not, for the most part, been subjected to
  sufficiently serious observation and scientific analysis; and that
  their verification, though extremely difficult, is not impossible.”
  (Ath) The book is translated by Dudley Wright.

         =Ath= p473 O ‘16 50w

  “To the student of psychology this work should prove of some value.
  The subject, in its most elementary as well as advanced form, is here
  dealt with in a broad and comprehensive spirit, and the usual adverse
  criticisms of psychical phenomena, criticisms which in many cases, to
  the lay mind at least, seem only too well founded, are tackled by Dr
  Joire in an able and impartial manner.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p583 D 7 ‘16 630w


=JONES, DANIEL.= English pronouncing dictionary (on strictly phonetic
principles). (Dent’s modern language ser.) *$3 Dutton 423 A17-1345

  “The object of this dictionary—it gives no definitions—is to record
  with as much accuracy as is necessary for practical linguistic
  purposes the pronunciation used in ordinary conversation by cultivated
  southern English people. ... The system used for representing
  pronunciation is that of the International phonetic association,
  which, in the opinion of the author, is the best as well as being the
  most widely used of the existing phonetic alphabets. ... Special
  features of this dictionary are the inclusion of proper names, all
  plurals of nouns, comparatives and superlatives of adjectives, and the
  inflected forms of verbs. ... The pronunciation is recorded of 49,690
  words, exclusive of inflected forms.” (Springf’d Republican) The
  author is reader in phonetics in the University of London.

  “Here is material for much warm-weather discussion, and to such
  disputants, of whom this topic counts its millions, there could be
  recommended no better guide than Mr Jones both for industry and
  accuracy in collecting his facts and for open-mindedness in the
  presentation of them. For, apart from a few striking dialectical
  peculiarities, such as the glide before r in hero and the like, the
  language which Mr Jones describes would pass as good and by no means
  peculiar English wherever educated people meet together.”

       + =Nation= 105:71 Jl 19 ‘17 620w

         =N Y Times= 22:201 My 20 ‘17 40w

       + =R of Rs= 56:109 Jl ‘17 80w

  Reviewed by W. H. Chesson

       + =Sat R= 123:551 Je 16 ‘17 1400w

  “The book will be of much service to Americans as informing them of
  what is probably the best English usage as to the pronunciation of
  ordinary words and will be very illuminating to them on the
  pronunciation of English place names and on the English usage as to
  other proper names.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 My 10 ‘17 450w


=JONES, EDGAR DEWITT.= Fairhope; the annals of a country church. il
*$1.25 (3c) Macmillan 17-16185

  “Some of the names in this story of Kentucky country life may be
  disguised, but the annals are, evidently, history, not fiction. They
  cluster around a ‘meeting house’ of the denomination known as
  Disciples of Christ.” (N Y Times) “The protracted meetings, the
  student preachers, the wooing of one of them, the changing of the old
  order from the doctrinal champions to the modern minister expert in
  rural sociology, these and other phases of the parish annals are set
  forth.” (Springf’d Republican)

  “Lifelike and wholly pleasant sketches.”

       + =Ind= 91:188 Ag 4 ‘17 50w

  “Mr Jones has given more than a mere picture of Fairhope church and
  its people from ‘The days of controversy and debate’ half a century
  ago to the present time of broad toleration; he has lifted bodily for
  our behoof the very soil itself, with its characters, genuine and
  quaint, and the church which was their centre and soul.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:258 Jl 8 ‘17 350w

  “Just what Ian Maclaren did to put ‘Drumtochty’ on the map of
  Scotland, that has ‘David Westbrooke’ done for Fairhope. ... Half a
  century ago there were public doctrinal debates exciting almost as
  much interest as the Lincoln-Douglas debates in the political field.
  Some of these, one in particular, are described here.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 400w


=JONES, EDWARD DAVID.= Administration of industrial enterprises; with
special reference to factory practice. il *$2 Longmans 658.7 16-24712

  “In this volume the author first outlines the problem of equipment and
  then proceeds to discuss the formation of an administrative
  organization, the adjustment of the relations of labor and capital,
  and, finally, the process of mercantile distribution. The aim of the
  book is two-fold—to trace the application of the scientific method in
  industry and to point out the efficiency of an economic policy based
  upon welfare and service.”—R of Rs

  “The proportions of the work are not perfect. Too much space is
  devoted to the highly technical subject of ‘layout of a manufacturing
  plant’ and not enough to modern aids to an enlightened administration.
  The treatment of cost accounting is far too meager and there is
  nothing at all on managerial statistics and the graphical presentation
  of facts. Nevertheless, the ground in general is covered with judgment
  and as thoroughly as a work of moderate size addressed to the general
  reader would permit. At the end of each chapter is a well-selected
  bibliography. Where the author most falls into error is in handling
  some of the technical features of scientific management.” C: W Mixter

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:630 S ‘17 530w

  “A valuable, short, compact statement. Not as inspiring as Lewis’
  ‘Getting the most out of business’ nor as analytical as Shaw’s
  ‘Approach to business problems.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:116 Ja ‘18

  “Dr Jones has given us a well organized work. It is a straightforward,
  connected story. As a textbook, it ought to be well received, and as a
  part of a business man’s library, it should prove an asset.” Malcolm
  Keir

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:229 My ‘17 250w

         =Boston Transcript= p7 My 19 ‘17 480w

  “Although the preface does not indicate it, this volume is better
  suited for use as a textbook than as a guide to executives of
  industrial plants. It covers too wide a range to touch more than
  lightly on the vital things that make for successful management. The
  man with executive problems to solve will need fuller treatment.”

         =Engin News-Rec= 78:154 Ap 19 ‘17 90w

  “Here are no abstract theories of business organization, but facts in
  profusion stated so professor alike may easily understand. ...
  Perhaps, in his enthusiasm for the subject, Professor Jones
  overemphasizes the results which will come from scientific management.
  After all, the human element must always remain as a large factor in
  business success.”

       + =Ind= 89:508 Mr 19 ‘17 150w

  “The necessary result of this enlargement of scope is, however, that
  the treatment of all the topics is very brief. Indeed, in some cases,
  the discussion is so slight as to make it a question whether much
  benefit can be derived by the student.”

         =Nation= 104:557 My 3 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:8 Ja ‘17 70w

         =Pratt= p28 O ‘17 30w

         =R of Rs= 55:220 F ‘17 70w

  “Professor Jones has attacked this somewhat formidable task with
  considerable success.” E. B. Gowin

       + =Survey= 38:441 Ag 18 ‘17 150w


=JONES, FRANCIS P.=[2] History of the Sinn Fein movement and the Irish
rebellion of 1916; with an introd. by J: W. Goff. il *$2 Kenedy 941.5
17-14796

  “Mr Jones analyzes the English influences that have been at work in
  Ireland for many years. He shows the pernicious attempts to strengthen
  Ireland commercially and politically. In contrast to these influences
  he explains the Sinn Fein ideals, and traces out the gradual
  unification of discontent that culminated in the revolt of 1916. Of
  that unfortunate insurrection and its leaders, he gives a most
  intimate account, having gathered his material from personal contact
  with Pearce, Connolly, MacDonald and the other Sinn Fein
  leaders.”—Cath World

         =A L A Bkl= 14:53 N ‘17

  “His presentation of the Irish problem is the most conclusive written
  in recent years, and contains a complete review of a period in Irish
  history that will grow in importance with the passing of time. No one
  who would know Ireland’s present position can afford to miss reading
  this scholarly work. In writing it Mr Jones has done a great service
  for Ireland and her people.”

       + =Cath World= 105:549 Jl ‘17 250w

         =Ind= 90:469 Je 9 ‘17 30w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:77 My ‘17

  “The story of the Sinn Fein movement is dramatically told, and there
  is a running account of the various armed movements that accompanied
  it. All this is well done. There is not, however, sufficient notice
  taken of the Irish trade union movement, or the part it has played in
  reforming and extending the economic ideas of the Irish people.” Frank
  MacDonald

     + — =N Y Call= p15 Ap 29 ‘17 900w

         =St Louis= 15:187 Je ‘17 20w


=JONES, JENKIN LLOYD.= Love for the battle-torn peoples. 75c Unity pub.
172.4 17-26179

  “A series of popular sermon-studies, sketching rapidly the
  contributions made by each of the warring countries to civilization,
  which entitle them to the love of the American people. A new statement
  of the author’s well known faith in human brotherhood and
  internationalism.”—A L A Bkl

         =A L A Bkl= 13:241 Mr ‘17

  “A charming little volume.”

       + =Educ R= 54:208 S ‘17 40w

  “The author has a wide knowledge of literature and a profound feeling
  for the great values of history and human life. He has also the gift
  of expression.”

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:267 Ja ‘17 60w

  “No one will read Mr Jones’s book without feeling that some things
  have been included that he cannot and does not want to love and that
  even more has been omitted that one has learned to love. And yet it is
  fair to say that Mr Jones has more nearly succeeded in reaching an
  average possessing universal appeal than could have been thought
  possible before the idea was given a trial.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 11 ‘17 300w


=JONES, JOHN PRICE.= America entangled (Eng title, German spy in
America). pa *50c Agnes C. Laut, 286 5th av., N.Y. 940.91 17-8589

  “In the course of his work on the staff of the New York Sun Mr Jones
  has given a year to the close investigation of the subject [of the
  German spy in America]. ... Here we have a detailed exposure of the
  misdeeds of von Papen, von Igel, Koenig, Boy-Ed, Captain Franz von
  Rintelen, the ‘German arch-plotter,’ who was commissioned ‘to isolate
  commercial and financial America as a base of war supplies from
  Europe,’ Dr Heinrich F. Albert, Dumba, and the rest of the
  conspirators; the full story of the Lusitania, an account of Germany’s
  lobby in Congress, and of the change in the system when publicity
  became too strong. Mr Roosevelt contributes a foreword, and Mr Roger
  B. Wood an introduction.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

         =Ath= p476 S ‘17 200w

         =St Louis= 15:166 Je ‘17

  “Not only to Americans, however, but to all the belligerent countries,
  and above all to neutrals, will Mr Price Jones’s book be of service in
  warning them how the Kaiser makes war.”

       + =Spec= 119:298 S 22 ‘17 1650w

  “A remarkable story, lucidly and effectively put together.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p371 Ag 2 ‘17 140w

  “Mr Jones’s story is the more deadly because it is supported
  throughout by documentary evidence, and is told in plain,
  straightforward language, little embellished by rhetoric.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p380 Ag 9 ‘17 1000w


=JONES, RUFUS MATTHEW.= St Paul, the hero. il *$1 (3½c) Macmillan 225.9
17-10430

  “This is the story of the life of St Paul, told with remarkable
  simplicity and especially designed for younger readers. ... The first
  chapter shows him as a boy ten years old, talking with his father
  about the meaning of the law; the last chapter gives us a picture of
  the heroic champion sealing his loyalty to the gospel by his
  death.”—Bib World

  “The unfolding history is given in untechnical language, vividly and
  concretely. ... This short book ought to be of great value in Bible
  study. The pictures are unusual, being reproductions of steel
  engravings in the classical style. The maps are too fine to be
  legible.”

       + =Bib World= 50:128 Ag ‘17 160w

  “St Paul’s life is so full of incident and so fascinating in detail
  that to write a long book about him would be far easier than a
  satisfactory short one; but Professor Jones, with the exactness of a
  scholar and with the quiet reverence of a Quaker, has produced a
  series of brief chapters that will convey to young people a very clear
  outline of the main story, while not exceeding the compass of their
  patience.”

       + =Cath World= 105:551 Jl ‘17 170w

  “The well-known scholar succeeds in making the character of Paul
  interesting to the adolescent boy. ... The story is written so as to
  appeal to the youthful imagination.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 110w


=JONES, WILLIAM TUDOR.= Spiritual ascent of man. *$1.50 Putnam 201
17-5700

  In his introduction, A. L. Smith, master of Balliol college, says
  “This book aims at bringing the best philosophical thought of the time
  within the range of the ordinary reader.” As the author defines his
  purpose it is “to present some of the main problems of science,
  philosophy, and religion as these are dealt with by a number of the
  most prominent writers of our day.” The greatest weakness of the
  church in the past, he says, has been its failure “to give due heed to
  the various branches of knowledge in their bearings on religion.”
  Contents: The scope and limits of science; Matter and life; Body and
  mind; Intellect and intuition; The “is” and the “ought”; Values; The
  nature of spirit; The conception of God; Religion and Christianity;
  Conclusion.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 6 ‘17 430w

         =Dial= 63:536 N 22 ‘17 220w

       + =Educ R= 54:316 O ‘17 70w

  “This book is clearly the fruit both of wide philosophical reading and
  of hard philosophical thought. ... It is certainly a book which all
  who have the cause of religion at heart would do well to read and
  ponder. The book appears at an opportune time. ... We whole-heartedly
  commend it.” J. T. Walley

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:396 Ap ‘17 720w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:94 Je ‘17


=JORDAN, DAVID STARR.= Alsace-Lorraine; a study in conquest. *$1 (5c)
Bobbs 943.4 17-6885

  This work was written in 1913. It is based on a study made in
  Alsace-Lorraine at that time. Writing then, before the war, Dr Jordan
  compared Alsace to a cyclone center—the quiet place within the storm
  where there is no movement. Alsace was then the least war-like place
  in Europe. An Alsatian expression of opinion is quoted as typical:
  “War is the worst possible solution of our problems, because war is no
  solution. With war there is never a solution of any question. ... If
  France should gain Alsace by war, it would be only the beginning of
  another war, and so on without end.” Contents: The “nightmare of
  Europe”; The German point of view; Alsace-Lorraine as “Reichsland”:
  The French point of view; Nationalism. The material of the book
  appeared in part in the Atlantic Monthly for May, 1914.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:395 Je ‘17

  “Brings very clearly to the foreground the evil results following
  Germany’s action in striving to absorb a people against their natural
  affiliation.”

       + =Ind= 90:380 My 26 ‘17 80w

         =R of Rs= 55:445 Ap ‘17 70w

         =St Louis= 15:187 Je ‘17 20w

  “Prof. Jordan is eminently fair to both sides. The letters he quotes
  as having received from prominent Frenchmen and Germans on this thorny
  question form not the least interesting part of his readable and
  informing little book.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p12 Mr 30 ‘17 320w

  “If the author is unable to forecast the best solution of the
  perplexing problem of Alsace-Lorraine, at least he brings sufficient
  evidence to show that many of those which have been proposed from time
  to time are utterly impracticable. ... The creation of a new ‘buffer’
  state, though not advanced by Dr Jordan as ‘the’ solution, from an
  analysis of the material which he brings does stand out as at least
  the most promising approach to it.” Bruno Lasker

     + — =Survey= 38:551 S 22 ‘17 1000w


=JORDAN, EDWIN OAKES.= Food poisoning. (Science ser.) il *$1 (3½c) Univ.
of Chicago press 613.2 17-14054

  The author is chairman of the department of hygiene and bacteriology
  of the University of Chicago. The introduction deals with the extent
  and kinds of food poisoning and articles of food most commonly
  connected with food poisoning. The author then considers:
  Sensitization to protein foods; Poisonous plants and animals; Mineral
  or organic poisons added to food; Food-borne pathogenic bacteria;
  Animal parasites; Poisonous products formed in food by bacteria and
  other micro-organisms; Poisoning of obscure or unknown nature.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:81 D ‘17

  “Concise authoritative, non-technical summary of present-day
  knowledge.”

       + =Cleveland= p95 Jl ‘17 40w

         =St Louis= 15:328 S ‘17 10w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 4 ‘17 600w

  “The book is of value at any time, and of importance; but the coming
  food campaign should focus attention upon it as one of the books
  which, above the primer grade, lead thoughtful readers into the
  desired realization of certain physiological aspects of the
  three-meals-a-day routine.” G. S.

       + =Survey= 39:73 O 20 ‘17 240w


=JÖRGENSEN, JOHANNES.= False witness. il *$1 (3c) Doran 940.91 17-26259

  A translation of a Danish work, “Klokke Roland.” The main part of the
  book is taken up with an examination of “Appeal to the civilized
  world” sent out by ninety-three German professors. The author examines
  their claims and brings evidence to prove them false. In addition the
  book contains miscellaneous chapters on German character and “kultur.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:306 Ap ‘17

  “It is an interesting book, written in genuine and acknowledged
  sympathy with Belgium, and bears the marks of a craftsman.”

       + =Cath World= 105:694 Ag ‘17 300w

         =Cleveland= p58 Ap ‘17 80w

  “It is the first authoritative expression of the Danish viewpoint—if
  one may go so far in generalizing—that we have had. And it should be
  welcomed here, as the comment of a neutral and a neighbor, upon the
  conduct of the war.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:140 Ap 15 ‘17 430w

  “No clearer or more eloquent condemnation of the German treatment of
  Belgium has been written than this neutral book, which deserves
  reading.”

       + =Spec= 118:176 F 10 ‘17 120w


=JOYCE, JAMES.= Portrait of the artist as a young man. *$1.50 (2c)
Huebsch 17-4707

  The story of the childhood, boyhood and youth of a young Irishman. It
  is extremely subjective and at times difficult to follow in its
  intricate turnings and abrupt transitions. From babyhood onward,
  Stephen is a lonely soul. At an early age he is sent to a Jesuit
  school where, altho he is evidently popular with the boys, he seems
  more than ever alone. He lives a secret life and during adolescence
  falls prey to the temptations of sex that lie in wait for the young.
  The agony of his remorse, his fear of confession, and the peace and
  exaltation that follows it, are among the most vivid impressions the
  book gives. The Catholic influence is strong thruout his early life.
  At one time he is led to think that he has a “vocation,” but when the
  book leaves him at the beginning of early manhood, he is leaning
  toward agnosticism.

  “The book has an irresistible effect of sharp, first-hand reality. But
  as a treatment of Irish politics, society or religion, it is
  negligible.”

         =Cath World= 105:395 Je ‘17 1100w

  “Such a book would have been impossible forty years ago. Far from
  looking back with regret at the good old novelists of the nineteenth
  century (whom, besides, we need never lose), I believe that our
  fiction is immensely freer and richer than the fiction of our
  immediate forefathers.” J: Macy

       + =Dial= 62:525 Je 14 ‘17 240w

  “The book in many places is exceedingly coarse, so marring uncommon
  beauty, descriptive power and insight.”

     – + =Ind= 90:256 My 5 ‘17 50w

  “What thrusts itself forward is the naturalism.’ Apart from this, in
  spite of it, the book has a measure of force by virtue of its sincere
  intent and its unconquered though ingrowing and indeterminate
  idealism. Its hero (who surely discourses like nobody in nature) is to
  be an artist in words—for the sake of Ireland.” H. W. Boynton

     – + =Nation= 104:403 Ap 5 ‘17 350w

  “The brilliant and nasty variety of pseudo-realism is excellently
  exemplified in ‘A portrait of the artist as a young man.’”

       — =Nation= 104:600 My 17 ‘17 500w

  “One almost despairs of conveying it to the person who has
  conventionalized his idea of Ireland and modern Irish literature, yet
  there is a poignant Irish reality to be found in few existing plays
  and no preexistent novel, presented here with extraordinary candor and
  beauty and power. ... ‘A portrait of the artist as a young man’ is not
  entirely pleasant. But it has such beauty, such love of beauty, such
  intensity of feeling, such pathos, such candor, it goes beyond
  anything in English that reveals the inevitable malaise of serious
  youth. Many people will furiously resent his candor, whether about
  religion or nationalism or sex. But candor is a nobility in this
  instance.” F. H.

       + =New Repub= 10:138 Mr 3 ‘17 1650w

  “It is worth a great deal to the outside world to read of such events
  as are chronicled in ‘The portrait’ and ‘Dubliners.’ To see directly
  into the household and the heart of this sensitive young Irishman of
  the upper middle class is to be brought face to face with the social,
  political and religious forces which vex Ireland (and England, too,
  incidentally) daily.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 1 ‘17 650w

  “If we begin by complaining of the title of this book, it is only
  because it may turn some people away from it. Others may be put off by
  occasional improprieties; and it is useless to say that people ought
  not be put off by such things. They are; and we should like the book
  to have as many readers as possible.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p103 Mr 1 ‘17 1100w


=JOYCE, THOMAS ATHOL.= Central American and West Indian archæology. il
*$3.75 (5½c) Putnam 913.728 (Eng ed 16-17487)

  The author calls this “an introduction to the archæology of the states
  of Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama and the West Indies.” His aim has
  been to treat the archæology of these districts in a manner similar to
  that of his earlier books on Mexico and South America. He says: “The
  geographical area covered by the book is one which is still very
  imperfectly known from an archaeological point of view; the people
  inhabiting it in early times were not so highly developed,
  politically, as the Mexicans or the Peruvians, and the literature
  dealing with them is neither large nor easy of access. Still a summary
  of the known facts may be of use, if only in performing the function
  of a signpost for future investigators.”

  “Summarizes in a scholarly way much material on excavations and
  discoveries of scientists that has heretofore been unavailable. Good
  illustrations.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:217 F ‘17

  “Mr Joyce, who is an assistant in the department of ethnography in the
  British museum, has already written two earlier volumes on the
  archaeology of Mexico, Yucatan and the South American continent,
  including the exceptionally interesting study of early Aztec
  civilization. ... He has gathered many of the interesting traditions
  which have come down from pre-Colombian days. Since the conquest of
  Porto Rico by the United States much has been done by our Bureau of
  ethnology in the line of ethnological research in that and the
  adjoining smaller islands, some of the results of which are seen in Mr
  Joyce’s book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 14 ‘17 700w

         =Cleveland= p71 My ‘17 30w

         =Dial= 63:467 N 8 ‘17 120w

  “The title well describes the book as an ‘introduction’ to the
  subject. As such it has good value. One feels, however, that the price
  set is high, considering the size of the volume.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:39 N 17 ‘17 280w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:15 Ja ‘17

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p104 Mr 1 ‘17 1100w


=JUDD, CHARLES HUBBARD.=[2] Psychology, general introduction. 2d
completely rev ed il *$1.80 Ginn 150 17-25595

  A second edition largely rewritten. The writer points out the
  principal changes and elaborations: (1) “The present edition goes
  further than did the first in working out the doctrines of functional
  psychology, especially in so far as these use motor processes in
  explaining mental organization; (2) The doctrine of attitudes which
  was presented in the first edition has been much expanded; (3) The
  applications of psychology have been elaborated, especially through a
  new chapter on mental hygiene; (4) The view with regard to the
  importance of consciousness in evolution which was set forth in my
  paper before the American psychological association in 1909 has been
  adopted as a guiding principle in this volume. In keeping with this
  view, the chapter on volition has been wholly rewritten, and several
  earlier sections have been largely worked over.” The chapters only
  slightly modified are: 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, and 17.

  “The significance of this revision for educators is enhanced by the
  fact that the author, for most of the ten years which have elapsed
  since the first edition, has been actively engaged in the teaching and
  administration of education. This has meant that the functional aspect
  of mental life, in which it is regarded as active, and doing something
  in the organism which it inhabits and in the world outside—this aspect
  which was already emphasized in the first edition is still more
  clearly defined in the additions which appear in the second edition.
  The student who is sufficiently mature to make applications of general
  principles for himself will gain profit from a study of the
  discussions of this book.” H. O. Rugg

       + =El School J= 18:312 D ‘17 400w


=JUDSON, KATHARINE BERRY=, comp. Myths and legends of British North
America. il *$1.50 (3½c) McClurg 398.2 17-11232

  To her series of books of retold legends of American Indians, east and
  west, the author adds a volume of tales from the north. Among the
  tribes represented are the Haida, Eastern Eskimo, Wyandot, Cree, Bella
  Coola, Lillooet and Chilcotin. The author says, “Only authentic myths
  and legends have been used in the compilation of this volume. The
  leading authorities are the publications of the United States Bureau
  of ethnology, of the Jesup North Pacific expedition, of the Memoirs of
  the American Museum of natural history, as well as the ethnological
  publications of the Canadian Bureau of mines.” There are about twenty
  illustrations.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:428 Jl ‘17

  “A large selection of well-executed cuts enhance the aesthetic appeal
  of the work. The author has, however, been less successful in her
  comments on some of these samples of Indian art. ... No justification
  can be found for the promiscuous arrangement of the myths of wholly
  heterogeneous provenience. ... A more judicious arrangement would have
  enhanced the value of the work immeasurably.” A. A. Goldenweiser

     + — =Bookm= 45:418 Je ‘17 650w

  “They have an ethnological value as well as a picturesque interest.”
  F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 16 ‘17 450w

  “The purpose of the book seems to be the entertainment of young
  people, but even for this modest design the sketchiness of the
  material and lack of developed unity leaves it inadequate.”

       — =Dial= 63:461 N 8 ‘17 180w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:94 Je ‘17


=JUDSON, KATHARINE BERRY.= Old Crow stories. il *$1.35 (4c) Little
17-24075

  A book of animal stories selected from Indian folk lore. “Old Crow” is
  one of the characters in these tales, others are Raven, Grizzly and
  Coyote. How Raven brought the light, How Grizzly Bear stole the light;
  How Sun was made; When Real People were baked; How Coyote got his
  cunning; How Fire came to the Real People, are some of the titles. The
  pictures are by Charles Livingston Bull.

  “She has retold these Indian myths of the beginnings of things in a
  spirited manner and in simple enough language for the little ones, yet
  without the condescending ‘talking down’ to which children
  instinctively object.” R. D. Moore

       + =Pub W= 92:2031 D 8 ‘17 270w

  “They have a decided interest for older readers who recognize their
  ethnic and symbolic importance, while children will read them as the
  most delightful make-believe.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 20 ‘17 70w




                                   K


=KAMBAN, GUTHMUNDUR.=[2] Hadda Padda; a drama in four acts; tr. by Sadie
Luise Peller. (Borzoi plays, v) *$1 Knopf 839.6 17-30695

  This play, translated from the Icelandic, was given its first
  production in Copenhagen in 1914. In spite of its difficult fourth
  act, which had made managers hesitate to attempt the play, it was an
  instant success. The other Scandinavian countries accepted it with
  equal enthusiasm and preparations for its presentation in Germany were
  only cut short by the war. It is a four-act tragedy on the theme of a
  proud woman’s betrayed love. Even in the pages of the printed play,
  Hrafnhild, called Hadda Padda, stands out as a very vital creation. In
  his drawing of her character and in the working out of the last act,
  the young dramatist reveals his northern heritage. There is an
  appreciative foreword by Georg Brandes.

         =Cleveland= p6 Ja ‘18 70w

  “The element of the death of Hadda Padda in this occasionally strong
  little drama is a weakness—not strength, not climax. It is one of the
  instances of avoidance, of seeking the easiest way out, both for
  dramatist and character. ... The play deserves success, for, in spite
  of common places worked out in a commonplace manner, and its
  artificiality, it goes far beyond the average run of plays, and it is
  really in a class quite outside our English works.” F. M.

     + — =N Y Call= p19 D 15 ‘17 600w

  “Strikingly brilliant play.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:109 Ja ‘18 90w


=KARAPETOFF, VLADIMIR.= Engineering applications of higher mathematics.
5v ea *75c Wiley 620 (11-32468)

  “‘This is not a book on calculus or analytic geometry, nor on
  engineering or any branch of it. It is intended to enable an engineer
  to make a better and more extended use of higher mathematics in his
  work.’ (Preface) Contents: v. 1. Problems on machine design; v. 2.
  Problems on hydraulics; v. 3. Problems on thermodynamics; v. 4.
  Problems on mechanics of materials; v. 5. Problems on electrical
  engineering.”—Cleveland

  “The author has great skill in stating the application of basic
  principles and in leading students to advanced work without waste of
  time and energy.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:205 F ‘17

         =Cleveland= p9 Ja ‘17 60w

  “The treatment is, on the whole, sound, though the diction is often
  rather loose. ... The mathematical work is not distinguished by
  neatness, and one finds awkward and cumbrous proofs where often quite
  simple methods are available. The author appears afraid of making
  undue demands on the knowledge of his readers, and when a real
  difficulty occurs contents himself with a reference to a textbook.
  These criticisms must not be taken to reflect on the competence of the
  author, whose aims, as recorded in his prefaces, are excellent.”

       + =Nature= 99:102 Ap 5 ‘17 380w


=KAWAKAMI, KIYOSHI KARL.= Japan in world politics. *$1.50 (2c) Macmillan
327.52 17-21929

  Writing from Peking in 1917 the author of “American-Japanese
  relations” and “Asia at the door” tells us in his preface to this book
  that prior to 1901 he was one of the founders of the Social Democratic
  party in Japan. His experiences in America subsequent to that date
  caused him regretfully to turn from the socialism and trade unionism
  he met here because he found them to mean a brotherhood between
  western nations only. “I have come to the conclusion,” he says, “that
  socialism cannot be achieved until the relations between the East and
  the West are radically changed.” That such a change may mean the
  averting of the world catastrophe that the future centuries will
  otherwise see is his reason for this attempt to “serve mankind by
  removing some of the misunderstandings now casting a dark shadow upon
  the relationship of the two nations.” Most of the chapters of this
  book were originally published as separate articles in the North
  American Review, the Atlantic Monthly, and other periodicals. Among
  the topics discussed are: The Japanese instinct of self-preservation;
  America’s issues with Japan; Is America preparing against Japan?; Land
  hunger: the background of the immigration question; Japanese
  immigration to America; The Pacific coast and the Japanese; The
  expatriation of the Japanese; The open door in China; Japan and
  America in China; Japan’s blunders in China; America and Japan in
  Korea; Japan and the Philippines; Japanese “designs” upon Mexico;
  America and the Anglo-Japanese alliance; America and German-Japanese
  relations; America and the Russo-Japanese entente.

  “The author’s sympathies are with Japan in American-Japanese
  questions, though his presentation of his views is reasonable and
  sane. He feels that the Monroe doctrine is unjust to small overcrowded
  nations and that unhindered immigration is necessary for a permanent
  peace. He attempts to justify Japan in China and Korea and to allay
  suspicion of German-Japanese relations.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:42 N ‘17

  Reviewed by W. W. McLaren

         =Am Pol Sci R= 11:777 N ‘17 300w

         =Ind= 92:60 O 6 ‘17 130w

  “If he were writing from the patriotic Japanese standpoint, he would
  remember that Great Britain is the ally of Japan, and as such is to be
  treated with courtesy and respect. But all the allusions to ‘England’
  throughout are as unpleasantly unfair as if they came from a
  ‘Zeitung,’ and are particularly regrettable at the present moment. If
  he were writing as a keen-witted American, he would know that the
  policy of the ‘open door’ enunciated by John Hay has always had
  British support.”

     – + =Nation= 105:571 N 22 ‘17 520w

  “The author declares that he was once a socialist. He abandoned
  socialism, however, when he began the study of the relations of Asia
  and Europe. This he tells us, is a chasm to be bridged before there
  can be any reasonable talk of socialism and internationalism. So Mr
  Kawakami sets about to state the problem. And he does it well.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 O 7 ‘17 750w

  “Not often does one find a discussion of Japanese and American
  relations that will compare with this little book in sanity,
  reasonableness, judicial temper, and ability to see the rights and
  wrongs of all sides of a question. As between America and Japan, he
  makes emphatic his conviction that the crux of the matter is the
  question of naturalization.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:312 Ag 26 ‘17 950w

     + — =Outlook= 117:143 S 26 ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:388 N ‘17 30w


=KAYE-SMITH, SHEILA.= John Galsworthy. (Writers of the day) il *60c (4c)
Holt 823 A17-395

  The author ranks Galsworthy higher as a dramatist than as a novelist.
  His strong points, craftsmanship and sense of form, stand out with
  distinctness in his plays, and his weakness in character drawing is
  not so evident. Types are more successful than individual characters
  on the stage. Furthermore Galsworthy is more successful in his plays
  than in his novels because most good plays are founded on a situation;
  most good novels on the development of a situation; “and development
  is not a characteristic of Galsworthy’s art.” Two chapters are devoted
  to the plays, two to the novels, one to the sketches, and a final
  chapter considers Galsworthy the artist.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:342 My ‘17

  “His admirers will like this essay and it may help those who demand
  that he be other than he is to understand and value one of the real
  artists of our time.”

       + =Ind= 91:33 Jl 7 ‘17 120w

         =Nation= 104:687 Je 7 ‘17 220w

  “A commonplace study of the cataloging type of John Galsworthy,
  placing emphasis upon his dramas rather than his novels, but taking
  one production after another in each field with impartial disregard of
  the demand of the ordinary reader for a measure of synthesis.”

       — =Nation= 105:324 S 20 ‘17 430w

  “A worthy successor to the other numbers of the series. And that is
  high praise. ... One is tempted to quote the book in detail, analyze
  its analyses. It is a pregnant and most excellent little volume.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:196 My 20 ‘17 630w

  “Not a brilliant or inspired but a good, discerning, level-headed and
  reasonably sympathetic study. ... One feels, however, that Miss
  Kaye-Smith over-praises Galsworthy’s power with words.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 1150w

  “It goes simply and concisely through the several items of Mr
  Galsworthy’s work, with descriptive and clear thoughtful criticism.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p551 N 16 ‘16 150w


=KEARY, CHARLES F.= Religious hours. *2s 6d Constable & co., London 821

  “The title of this volume will suggest to many readers something in
  the vein of the ‘Christian year.’ But Mr Keary’s religion is not
  Keble’s. It is not orthodox, not even Christian, at all. In his
  prefatory note he says that the poems are chosen, out of a quantity of
  verse he had ready for publication, as more suited than others to ‘the
  gravity of the time’; and, he adds, ‘the title “religious” which I
  have given them is to be construed in this sense, the literary one;
  the sense in which Herrick often uses the word.’ ... The truth is that
  religion in Mr Keary’s use means not something fanciful which poets
  have invented, but what it actually meant for the world of Greece and
  Rome before the coming of Christianity.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “Mr Keary’s long and devoted service to fine letters is well summed up
  in this choice book, which, we hope, will not be passed by as if it
  were inferior hymnology.”

       + =Sat R= 123:208 Mr 3 ‘17 750w

  “A volume of grave pagan psalms and hymns of a true piety and a true
  imagination.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p43 Ja 25 ‘17 1550w


=KEELER, HARRIET LOUISE.= Wayside flowers of summer. il *$1.35 Scribner
580 17-14079

  “A study of the conspicuous herbaceous plants blooming upon our
  northern roadsides during the months of July and August.” (Subtitle)
  In the introduction the author adds, “The plants described in this
  volume are those that the wayfarer, starting out upon his summer
  vacation, will most likely meet if he goes on foot, or pass if he
  takes an auto, or see from the windows of his moving train; they are
  the ones that are part and parcel of summer life. ... In round numbers
  they vary from one hundred and twenty-five to one hundred and fifty.”
  The botanical descriptions are based on Gray’s “Manual of botany,”
  seventh edition, and Britton’s “Manual of the flora of the northern
  states and Canada.” The book is fully illustrated with photographs,
  drawings, and pictures in color.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:435 Jl ‘17

         =Cleveland= p109 S ‘17 30w

         =Pratt= p19 O ‘17.

  “Of convenient size for the pocket, of good type for the eye, of
  generous illustration both in color and line drawings.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 28 ‘17 150w


=KEEN, EDITH.= Seven years at the Prussian court. il *$3 (3½c) Lane
943.08 (Eng ed 17-1178)

  The author spent seven years in Germany as a companion in the
  household of the Princess Frederick Leopold of Prussia, sister of the
  German empress. Like the many others of its kind, the book is made up
  of personal reminiscences and bits of gossip about royal personages.
  Among the chapters are: My early days at Potsdam; The princess
  Margarethe; Incognito visits to England; Servants in German royal
  households; The crown prince and princess; The days before the war,
  etc.

  “Her knowledge of the Kaiser and his family is at best but second hand
  information.” D. L. M.

         =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 14 ‘17 400w

  “There is frequently a bias in her manner of writing that makes one
  realize how difficult it is for the author to be fair toward her
  country’s enemies.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:43 N 17 ‘17 80w

  “Much entertaining gossip for those interested in the love affairs and
  dress bills of royalty is scattered over these rambling pages, but
  there is singularly little that is significant of anything beyond
  personal concerns. ... The frequent glimpses of the Kaiser, sometimes
  in his moods of testiness or of ruffled vanity, are the most
  enlivening feature of the book.”

     + — =Nation= 104:410 Ap 5 ‘17 270w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:60 Ap ‘17

         =N Y Times= 22:271 Jl 22 ‘17 750w

       + =Outlook= 115:625 Ap 4 ‘17 140w

         =St Louis= 15:185 Je ‘17 20w

       + =Spec= 118:341 Mr 17 ‘17 150w


=KEEN, WILLIAM WILLIAMS.= Medical research and human welfare. il *$1.25
(4½c) Houghton 610.9 17-30712

  This “record of personal experiences and observations during a
  professional life of fifty-seven years” formed the substance of the
  Colver lectures for 1917 at Brown university. Dr Keen is emeritus
  professor of surgery in Jefferson medical college, Philadelphia. His
  professional experience covers the period from the “old horribly fatal
  surgery of the Civil war” to the present. He has watched surgery
  emerge “from a septic purgatory into an aseptic paradise,” and he very
  briefly covers the marvelous changes that have taken place in this
  time. Among the subjects touched on are Bacteriology, Puerperal fever,
  Hydrophobia, Modern surgery, Syphilis, Smallpox, Cholera, Yellow
  fever, Malaria, Cancer, and Tuberculosis.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:155 F ‘18

  “This record surpasses in interest the most thrilling detective
  story. ... It is the best possible answer to some of the claims of
  Christian science training.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 19 ‘17 100w

  “The readableness, the sagacity, and the persuasiveness of this book
  are to be found only by the careful perusal which it deserves.”

       + =Outlook= 117:577 D 5 ‘17 90w

  “[Written] in brilliant, scholarly, but quite untechnical style.” G.
  S.

       + =Survey= 39:326 D 15 ‘17 240w


=KEENE, LOUIS.= “Crumps”; the plain story of a Canadian who went. il
*$1.25 (4c) Houghton 940.91 17-29600

  The word “crumps” is trench slang for a bursting shell—“on account of
  the sound they make, a sort of cru-ump! noise as they explode.” The
  author is a young Canadian artist who writes of the early days of the
  war, illustrating his account with his own drawings. He touches
  lightly on war horrors in his text; but some of his pictures are very
  grim indeed. There is a very brief foreword by Major-General Leonard
  Wood.

  “Of life in the trenches the writer tells his story with light and
  cheerful spirit and yet not without full sense of duty and
  responsibility.” H. S. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 N 17 ‘17 600w

         =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 40w

  “‘Crumps’ takes the whole thing a good deal as a college boy takes a
  big football game; it’s all something of a lark, a glorious great
  game, and even the horrors are touched on with a latent feeling that
  they are, in their own way, humorous.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:546 D 9 ‘17 1750w

  “The chief interest, in fact, of the book is in its earlier chapters,
  which tell of things that other men have left largely unreported.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 28 ‘17 690w


=KEITH, ARTHUR BERRIEDALE, and CARNOY, ALBERT JOSEPH.= Indian
[mythology]; Iranian [mythology]. (Mythology of all races) 13v v 6 il $6
(6c) Jones, Marshall 291 17-6787

  The sixth volume of the Mythology of all races is made up of two books
  in one. The first part, Indian mythology, is by A. Berriedale Keith,
  regius professor of Sanskrit and comparative philology in Edinburgh
  university. The author has limited his subject by restricting the
  treatment as closely as possible to the mythology that is closely
  allied to religion in India. Part 2, Iranian mythology, is by
  Professor Albert J. Carnoy of the University of Louvain, now research
  professor in the University of Pennsylvania. He says, “The purpose of
  this essay is exactly set forth by its title: it is a reasonably
  complete account of what is mythological in Iranian traditions, but it
  is nothing more; since it is exclusively concerned with myths, all
  that is properly religious, historical, or archaeological has
  intentionally been omitted.” The illustrations of the volume are
  deserving of special mention. Among them are a number of fine color
  plates.

  “Both accounts well fulfil their purpose as popular summaries; both
  will also prove valuable to specialists. The most satisfactory
  chapters of Keith are those on the Rig-Veda, the Brāhmanas, and the
  Epic. The chapter on Buddhism, the most difficult one to write, is the
  least satisfactory of all.” W. E. Clark

     + — =Am J Theol= 22:155 Ja ‘18 1150w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:424 Jl ‘17

  “This series promises to be one of the great monuments of the history
  of religions. It is impossible to enter into a discussion of each one
  of these volumes. It is enough to call attention to the admirable
  analysis of material, its readable style, the mass of notes and
  bibliography.”

       + =Bib World= 50:125 Ag ‘17 240w

  “Professor Keith of Edinburgh university, the author of the volume,
  has already published the standard ‘Vedic index of names and subjects’
  and appears as editor and translator of the Sankhayana and Aitareya
  and of the Taittiriya Samhita. ... This is the first time, however,
  that any authoritative work has been published in English on the
  history of Indian mythology. ... The Metropolitan museum of art
  allowed the color plates from the Persian manuscripts of the Shaknamah
  to be used for illustrations of the Iranian section.” D. L. M.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 17 ‘17 850w

  “Dr Keith has with infinite skill cut a swathe through what seems an
  inextricable tangle of mythological detail. He makes clear the
  development of philosophical ideas and yet preserves so much of the
  mythological drapery in which these ideas are clothed that the book
  possesses the double quality of scholarliness and fascination. By
  recognizing the close connection between mythology and religion, he
  has greatly enhanced, in my opinion, the interest of his subject.” H.
  A. Clarke

       + =Dial= 63:158 Ag 30 ‘17 1350w

  “In clear presentation of matter, and in appropriateness of
  illustration this volume is superexcellent. For the last, some of the
  choicest of manuscript and book-decorations have been employed at
  large cost.”

       + =Lit D= 54:2007 Je 30 ‘17 250w

         =Nation= 104:658 My 31 ‘17 1200w

       + =N Y Times= 22:179 My 6 ‘17 700w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 23 ‘17 640w


=KEITH, KATHERINE.= Girl. *$1.35 (3c) Holt 17-3032

  Chapters from this autobiography have appeared in the Atlantic
  Monthly. It gives a series of impressionistic pictures from a girl’s
  life from childhood up to her eighteenth year. As a little girl she is
  both mischievous and imaginative. She lives partly in a dream world
  and invents long and involved romances, of which a handsome actor and
  a western ranch are features, she herself playing the part of a boy.
  As she begins to grow up, the narrative seems more artificial and some
  of the incident and the mixing of the dates of certain known events
  give the impression that the whole is a piece of fiction.

  “It is obvious that its writer has striven hard to write something
  strikingly original, and that she frequently makes the sad mistake of
  thinking that freakishness is identical with frankness, and that
  self-searchings and their public confession are as interesting to the
  reader as to herself. ... The confessions are too artificial to carry
  with them the convincing power of truth.” E. F. E.

       — =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 10 ‘17 1050w

  “It is a very interesting book. People perhaps will like to discuss
  its social significance,—as I have done. But it is chiefly worth while
  as a very definite rendering of an interesting conception,—rather a
  rare thing in art.” E: E. Hale

       + =Dial= 62:71 Ja 25 ‘17 500w

  “Written with a curious detachment and objectivity rare in personal
  revelations.”

         =Ind= 90:473 Je 9 ‘17 30w

  “A book of ingrowing emotion, of strained and hectic
  self-consciousness, of feminism in its aimless and sterile phase. It
  is also consciously and deliberately ‘literary.’”

       — =Nation= 104:432 Ap 12 ‘17 250w

  “The story is no more chaotic than is life itself. One of its charms
  is its surprises.” J: N. Beffel

       + =N Y Call= p15 Mr 4 ‘17 950w

  “The story is written with delicate art, its crisp, lucid style
  strikingly simple and its situations vividly realized. This is
  especially true of those portions of the book that deal with the
  childhood of the girl.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:24 Ja 21 ‘17 250w

  “Semi-fictionalized reminiscence. ... It consists of a loose-strung
  series of incidents, anecdotes and self-revealments ... many of them
  exquisite in themselves and in their presentation; and the lot of them
  cumulatively meaningful in their feminine entirety.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:208 Mr ‘17 40w (Reprinted from Life, 1917)


=KELLAND, CLARENCE BUDINGTON.= Sudden Jim. il *$1.35 (2c) Harper 17-6325

  James Ashe, senior, was known as “Clothespin Jimmy.” It was a matter
  of disappointment to him that his son, Jim, in the twenty-eight years
  of his life had acquired no distinctive title. A man didn’t amount to
  much, in his opinion, who had done nothing to merit a descriptive
  name. That was one of the reasons that led him to go off to California
  leaving his clothespin factory in Jim’s charge. If there was anything
  in the younger man, he wanted to see it come out. In less than a week
  on his new job, the son had earned his title, “Sudden Jim.” The scene
  of the story is a small town in Michigan and local politics play a
  part in the action.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:355 My ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p13 Ap 7 ‘17 500w

  “He is a type loved by the average American.”

         =Dial= 62:444 My 17 ‘17 120w

  “A good book of its kind. It is amusing, brisk, swift moving, full of
  incident and surprise.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:99 Mr 18 ‘17 320w

  “Mr Kelland cleverly sketches a group of local characters, whose
  colloquialisms and hard commonsense are a source of delight. It is a
  clever, rapid and diverting American story.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 330w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:126 Ap ‘17 50w


=KELLEY, ETHEL MAY.= Turn about Eleanor. il *$1.40 Bobbs 17-23983

  “Half a dozen young people, three girls and three young men, all of
  them great friends and all but one pledged never to marry, decide to
  adopt a child and bring it up on the co-operative plan. A little girl
  of ten, Eleanor Hamlin, an orphan from Cape Cod, is chosen as the
  subject of this experiment, and the first twelve chapters tell of her
  experiences with her six volunteer parents, each of whom lives in a
  different way and has different ideas from any of the rest. Eleanor
  spends two months with first one and then another, until she has
  stayed with all six; they teach her a good deal, and to them she is a
  liberal education.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:96 D ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:341 N ‘17 100w

  “Will attract the favorable attention of those who want an
  old-fashioned story about new-fashioned people. It is old-fashioned in
  this day of typewriter-made fiction because it is full of common sense
  and good workmanship. There is more than an amusing plot, there are
  real ideas in it, as well as flesh and blood and brain characters.”

       + =Dial= 63:463 N 8 ‘17 170w

  “It is a bright little story and the cooperative parents are nicely
  sketched.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:402 O 14 ‘17 250w


=KELLOGG, MRS CHARLOTTE.= Women of Belgium; turning tragedy to triumph.
il *$1 (3c) Funk 940.91 17-12252

  An account of relief work in Belgium, with special reference to what
  the Belgium women have been doing for themselves and their countrymen.
  Mrs Kellogg went to Belgium in July, 1916, as the one woman member of
  the Commission for Belgian relief. Herbert Hoover, on behalf of the
  Commission, says “We offer her little book as our, and Mrs Kellogg’s,
  tribute in admiration of them [Belgian women] and the inspiration
  which they have contributed to this whole organization.” All profits
  from the sale of the volume go to the relief work.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:444 Jl ‘17

  “A wonderful story of courage and heroism as splendid as any of the
  battlefield or trench.”

       + =Cath World= 106:105 O ‘17 200w

       + =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 80w

  “There are many angles of vision, of course, from which one may
  consider the conditions in Belgium, and Mrs Kellogg has elected to put
  her emphasis, not upon the source of the Belgian calamity, but rather
  upon the spiritual reaction of the women to the set of circumstances
  imposed upon them.”

       + =Dial= 63:277 S 27 ‘17 540w

       + =Ind= 91:74 Jl 14 ‘17 110w

  “Her tale is moving to a degree. She has given to the world, in her
  description of the accomplishments of the 55,000 volunteer
  relief-workers, a remarkable picture of splendid courage and of the
  noble service of true human brotherhood and sisterhood.”

       + =Lit D= 55:34 S 29 ‘17 300w

  “Mrs Kellogg’s restraint gives her book convincing value as a
  document.” E. S. S.

       + =New Repub= 11:253 Je 30 ‘17 480w

  “The simplicity with which she writes makes the wonderful story of the
  devotion, the unstinted service, the utter self-abnegation with which
  many thousands of Belgian women are giving themselves completely to
  this work stand out all the more grandly.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:254 Jl 8 ‘17 620w


=KELLOGG, LOUISE PHELPS=, ed. Early narratives of the Northwest,
1634-1669. (Original narratives of early American history) *$3 (2c)
Scribner 973.2 17-6235

  The author has brought together a group of the original narratives of
  the early French explorers of the Great Lakes and the upper
  Mississippi. These narratives, as she says, are “full of the charm of
  brave deeds, of heroic endurance, of abiding enthusiasms, and of
  famous achievements.” Among them are records of the adventures and
  explorations of Nicolet, Radisson, Allouez, Marquette, Jolliet, La
  Salle and Tonty, and Duluth. Three facsimiles of old maps illustrate
  the volume.

  “All of the narratives thus brought together are elsewhere printed,
  but not all are readily available, nor are all English versions
  complete or trustworthy. The Tonty memoir, here given in full, should
  prove useful to students of a wider field than that to which this
  volume is specially devoted. For all of the journals, Miss Kellogg’s
  abundant annotation is helpful. The clearly-penned introduction to
  each narrative not merely summarizes it, but informs the student of
  what printing it has already had, either in French or English, and
  makes plain the editor’s choice of text. Not the least interesting
  feature of the work is a facsimile of a contemporary map drawn to
  illustrate Marquette’s discoveries. The volume as a whole bespeaks
  scholarly care.”

       + =Am Hist R= 23:179 O ‘17 650w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:307 Ap ‘17
       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 11 ‘17 630w

       + =Dial= 62:485 My 31 ‘17 380w

  “Although not by any means the most important of the series, it is in
  many respects the most interesting. The narrations of the early
  Frenchmen who traversed the Old Northwest possess a charm that will
  always appeal to the student of history.”

 *   + – =Nation= 104:762 Je 28 ‘17 1050w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:60 Ap ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:428 My ‘17 100w

  “It is a great convenience both to the historical student and to the
  general reader to have these materials arranged in a single volume.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:108 Jl ‘17 110w

         =St Louis= 15:155 My ‘17


=KELLOGG, VERNON LYMAN, and TAYLOR, ALONZO ENGLEBERT.= Food problem.
*$1.25 (2½c) Macmillan 613.2 17-29573

  The two authors are members of the United States food administration
  and the book has an introduction by Herbert Hoover. Part 1, devoted to
  The problem and the solution, has chapters on: The food situation of
  the western allies and the United States; Food administration; How
  England, France and Italy are controlling and saving food; Food
  control in Germany, and its lessons. Part 2, The technology of food
  use, has chapters on: The physiology of nutrition; The sociology of
  nutrition [two chapters]; Grain and alcohol. In conclusion there is a
  brief chapter on Patriotism and food.

       + =Lit D= 55:45 D 29 ‘17 230w

  “Their volume is so replete with facts and cogent, lucid reasoning
  that it is indispensable to all who write on this problem for
  newspapers and magazines. Particularly instructive, psychologically as
  well as economically, are the results of a study of conditions in
  Germany made in these pages.”

       + =Nation= 105:606 N 29 ‘17 1100w

  “The present admirably clear book will make the patriotic reader
  rather painfully conscious of the enormous difficulties in our food
  situation.”

       + =New Repub= 13:131 D 1 ‘17 450w

  “The book is specially remarkable because of its comprehensiveness,
  the amount of space it covers in its two hundred-odd pages, and for
  the clarity of its discussion.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:493 N 25 ‘17 700w

  “The second section of the book gives a popular exposition of the most
  widely adopted modern theory of nutrition such as every speaker and
  writer on food conservation should carefully study to guard him from
  pitfalls. Altogether, this section is full of new and revised
  judgments even for those, not specialists, who may claim a general
  acquaintance with the subject. The only item in the detailed
  recommendations to which the reviewer finds it difficult to assent is
  the advice to those of means to subsist as far as possible upon the
  ‘rare, expensive goods, delicacies, if you please,’ in order to
  release more of the cheaper foods for the poorer classes and for
  export.” Bruno Lasker

     + — =Survey= 39:297 D 8 ‘17 570w


=KELLY, RUSSELL ANTHONY.= Kelly of the Foreign legion. il *$1 (4½c)
Kennerley 940.91 17-28641

  “The first seven chapters of this book are letters received from
  Russell A. Kelly, age 21, volunteer in the Légion étrangère. The
  letters, many of which were published in the New York Evening Sun,
  were sent to his parents in New York and have been retained in exactly
  their original form except for the omission of strictly personal
  matters.” (Preface) The letters date from November 25, 1914 to June
  15, 1915. After the engagement around Souchez on June 16 their writer
  was officially recorded as “missing.” Their helpfulness lies in their
  naturalness in the recording of daily happenings. The last chapter of
  the book gives an interesting history of the Foreign legion, dating
  its existence back to the fifth century under Clovis.

  “One could wish nothing better for our boys ‘over there,’ and on the
  way, than that their records may be as honorable as that of ‘Kelly of
  the Foreign legion.’”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 22 ‘17 230w

  “The book differs from many others of its kind in an apparent absence
  of emotion in the performance of a hated but inevitable task.”

       + =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 50w

         =Ind= 92:536 D 15 ‘17 320w

  “That he enjoyed the experience is manifest in spite of his repeated
  assertions that war is asinine and his ridicule of the theory that war
  is grand. It is an interesting human document.”

       + =New Repub= 13:28 N 3 ‘17 140w

  “Kelly makes the soldier’s life stand out vividly in these letters.
  The book is a good side light on the war.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 O 5 ‘17 220w


=KELSEY, CARL.=[2] Physical basis of society. *$2 (2c) Appleton 304
17-274

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “Two things especially are worth noting about this book. One is the
  great mass of data which has been assembled. ... The second important
  feature of the book is that it symbolizes very markedly some of the
  newer tendencies in the development of sociology.” L. L. Bernard

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:600 S ‘17 500w

  “The defects, as far as there are any, are essentially those which are
  related to the use of the survey method. The extensive character of
  the facts which are given would seem to justify more personal
  induction than one finds in the book. A few inaccuracies occur. ... A
  splendid and original service has been performed by Professor Kelsey
  in selecting, bringing together, organizing, and presenting in one
  volume such a fund of concrete material upon the physical bases of
  social progress. Students undertaking sociological studies, and the
  busy reader alike, will find the book of increasing usefulness.” E. S.
  Bogardus

     + — =Am J Soc= 23:270 S ‘17 310w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:289 Ap ‘17

  “From the writings of the specialists on geography, natural history,
  biology, ethnography and criminal anthropology, he has gleaned,
  arranged and intelligently interpreted experiments and observations
  not easily accessible to the student. The style is clear and
  interesting, the treatment concrete and summary, the attitude
  objective and the spirit impartial. The author shows open-mindedness
  and sound judgment, and, in dealing with controverted matters, takes
  pains to give the evidence on both sides.” E. A. R.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:240 My ‘17 220w

  “A work that widely read would do much toward bridging the gap between
  the older generation and the new.”

       + =Ind= 90:295 My 12 ‘17 370w

  “Dr Kelsey gives us little more than a compilation of the best thought
  of authorities on the subjects he discusses. If Dr Kelsey has anything
  original to tell us, it is only the most assiduous reader who will be
  able to find it. His two most original chapters are those wherein he
  discusses ‘Social institutions’ and ‘The nature of progress.’” Harry
  Salpeter

     – + =N Y Call= p14 My 13 ‘17 650w

  “The book gives all appearances of having been too hastily written,
  and thus furnishes grounds for the criticism that the work of
  sociologists is superficial. This is all the more deplorable because
  the general plan and logic of arrangement of the book are excellent.”
  F. S. Chapin

     – + =Science= n s 46:215 Ag 31 ‘17 510w

  Reviewed by Graham Taylor

         =Survey= 38:573 S 29 ‘17 210w


=KEMMERER, EDWIN WALTER.= Modern currency reforms. diags *$2.40
Macmillan 332 16-25102

  “Beginning with the Indian monetary reform of 1893 five important
  currency adjustments have been consummated. The other four comprise
  those perfected in the Philippines, Porto Rico, the Straits
  Settlements, and Mexico—although some may doubt the efficacy of that
  of the last-named country. Professor Kemmerer has assembled data of
  these five reforms covering the conditions which preceded them, the
  causes, the plan of readjustment, and the results, presenting it in a
  volume of unusual value and interest to students of finance.” (Boston
  Transcript) “Professor Kemmerer was financial adviser to the
  Philippine government, and during that service drafted the currency
  legislation for the Straits Settlements. He had especial opportunities
  for information regarding the establishment of a new standard of value
  in Porto Rico.” (N Y Times)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:6 O ‘17

  “Barring the title, the book is quite satisfactory, from table of
  contents to index, both inclusive. ... No man, surely, is better
  fitted than Professor Kemmerer to write such an account. The author
  himself made so much of the history here chronicled that his book must
  have for every reader an unusual quality of finality. ... Is not
  adapted to use as a textbook for American college classes.” G: R.
  Wicker

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:356 My ‘17 220w

  “Professor Kemmerer needs no introduction to students of money and
  credit. His contributions in this field have been numerous and of a
  uniformly high order. He and Professor Irving Fisher are generally
  recognized as the two foremost exponents in the United States of the
  modern form of the ‘quantity theory’ of money value.” E. E. Agger

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:228 Jl ‘17 350w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 14 ‘17 390w

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 50w

  “Every day enhances the value of this work. ... It is safe to say that
  attempts at currency reform will play no small part in the finance of
  the coming years, and the laboratory experiences which Professor
  Kemmerer here describes will be of inestimable value to the world. To
  be sure, these experiences are related to fluctuating silver moneys,
  whereas the great problems of the future will relate to depreciated
  paper currencies. Yet a depreciated currency is a depreciated
  currency, whether it be metal or paper.”

       + =Nation= 105:92 Jl 26 ‘17 1200w

  “No one wishing to be abreast in the state of the art and science can
  afford to be ignorant of these object lessons of how prices, taxes,
  wages, and contracts of indebtedness are affected by such reforms.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:64 F 25 ‘17 180w

         =R of Rs= 55:443 Ap ‘17 100w


=KENNEDY, CHARLES RANN.= Rib of the man; a play of the new world in five
acts, scene individable, setting forth the story of an afternoon in the
fulness of days. il *$1.30 Harper 822 17-8757

  The theme of Mr Kennedy’s play is the coming of a new day in which a
  new relation will be established between men and women and in which
  there will be no war. “If we depend upon war to end war, we are lost
  indeed,” says Diana Brand, “No! War will end by the advent of
  something mightier than itself! It is here, now! At the door!” The
  scene is an island in the Ægean, the time, toward the end of the
  European war. Scene and action are arranged to correspond somewhat
  with the situation in the Garden of Eden.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:50 N ‘17

  “With all these elements which would seem to remove it far from any
  sense of reality, the dramatist does the seemingly impossible, and
  gives us actual people, doing real things in a natural way.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 5 ‘17 170w

         =Cleveland= p105 S ‘17 110w

  “Part of the dialog is witty; once or twice the plot of the play
  proper begins to sound very interesting. As for Diana, she is a very
  real and very wonderful woman, and deserves a better vehicle for her
  power, beauty and humor.”

     – + =Ind= 92:489 D 8 ‘17 330w

  “It will be caviare to the general and a stumbling block to some of
  his stanchest admirers. To the cynical and skeptical it will appear
  the work of a rhapsodical sentimentalist and visionary. Only those in
  sympathy with his sturdy apostolic faith will recognize the inspiring
  spirituality of his main themes, and even they will regret that high
  ideals, so eloquently and forcibly expressed, should be blurred by
  much that is extravagant or intemperate.” J. R. Towse

     + — =Nation= 104:608 My 17 ‘17 900w

  “Had Mr Kennedy not enlisted the aid of symbolism that simplicity of
  his program might perhaps have been quarreled with, but he envelopes
  the issues in such allegorical vagueness that realistic standards are
  inapplicable.”

         =New Repub= 10:sup22 Ap 21 ‘17 180w

  “The fervor, humanitarian aspiration, glorious conception of a
  spirit-free world, loyalty to true art, occasionally beautiful turn of
  phrase and daring presentation do not rescue this play from frequent
  triviality and occasional overwhelming dullness. ... It will leave
  most readers merely indifferent.” Frank Macdonald

     + — =N Y Call= p12 Ap 22 ‘17 270w

  “A vein of satire runs through it, for Mr Kennedy delights in satire,
  and the character study is delicately done. Of action the play has
  little; it moves in the realm of thought.”

         =N Y Times= 22:162 Ap 22 ‘17 650w

  “His people, save for his superman and superwoman with their
  conception of the new world, are all more or less caricatures,
  illustrative of present-day types. Indeed the superman and superwoman
  themselves are tremendously overdrawn, as they must perhaps be in an
  allegorical play, yet drawn for all that with force and feeling. They
  express radical doctrines. They utter lines that are ultra-modern,
  occasionally blasphemous—a compound of Wells and Shaw—and yet it is
  impossible to escape the lofty thought that animated the
  poet-dramatist in writing. ... The situations possess true dramatic
  forcefulness and the lines many times rise to genuine poetry.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 15 ‘17 680w


=KENT, CHARLES FOSTER.= Social teachings of the prophets and Jesus.
*$1.50 Scribner 220 17-12971

  “The discovery that the great prophets and founders of Judaism and
  Christianity were above all else social teachers and reformers is
  rapidly revolutionising the study of the Bible,” says the author. “The
  Hebrew prophets and Jesus speak to us to-day more directly and
  convincingly than they did even to their contemporaries, for we are
  far more keenly alive to the importance of the social problems which
  they were seeking to solve. To appreciate fully the social principles
  which they laid down it is necessary first to become acquainted with
  the personality of each of these prophets and with the immediate
  political and social conditions with which they were dealing. Studied
  in the light of their historical background, these teachings can then
  be readily interpreted into universal terms and used as a solvent for
  the social problems of today.” In this paragraph both the purpose and
  method of Professor Kent’s book are summed up. It is divided into four
  parts, treating of: The social ideals of the pre-exilic prophets; The
  social ideals of the exilic and post-exilic prophets and sages; The
  social ideals of Jesus; The social ideals of Jesus’ followers. There
  is a five-page bibliography.

  “Dr Kent’s conception of Jesus is well known from his earlier works,
  and reappears here with still sharper emphasis on the ‘social service’
  aspects. ... The objections to this point of view hardly need
  recapitulating. All this is in no way meant to say that Dr Kent has
  not written very much of very great value. The weakness is a weakness
  often to be found in writings of the ‘social service’ school—a desire
  to obtain results too directly, a constant implication that the
  biblical teachers spoke with modern problems in modern phrasing ever
  before their minds. Good method requires that we determine the content
  of such teaching in the light of its own day. The appendix contains an
  excellent bibliography, an elaborate list of subjects for
  investigation and discussion, and a brief classified index of biblical
  passages.” B. S. Easton

     + — =Am J Theol= 21:470 Jl ‘17 800w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:425 Jl ‘17

  “The book will not solve all present-day social problems by the
  teachings of the Bible. It is not intended to do this. It is meant
  primarily to be a source book; and when used as such it will be found
  to be a most excellent one.” F. W. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 My 23 ‘17 500w

  “It is not so much his social principles that are objectionable, which
  are one sided rather than false, but his implicit rejection of
  supernatural religion without which those principles have little
  force. Traditional Christianity is the most tremendous assertion ever
  made by man. It is worse than futile to hold, as does this writer,
  that it matters little or nothing whether it is true or not. That is
  the one thing that really does matter.”

     – + =Cath World= 106:401 D ‘17 580w

         =Cleveland= p106 S ‘17 30w

  “Will be of much assistance to Christian preachers and teachers.”

       + =Ind= 91:354 S 1 ‘17 60w

  “This is the work of a man saturated with the broader subject which
  includes that of the book. Those who are wondering what to teach
  advanced classes in a church school will find a good course in this
  college textbook.” L: A. Walker

       + =N Y Call= p15 Jl 1 ‘17 150w

  “Dr Kent, who is Woolsey professor of Biblical literature in Yale
  university, is well known to Bible students for his work in religious
  history and modern criticism. ... Dr Kent is in the main a
  conservative as regards social theory, but he seeks merely to arrange
  the social utterances and expand them as nearly as possible in
  accordance with their original meaning. The book is carefully
  compiled, and is a valuable and timely contribution to the Christian
  interpretation of modern social problems.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 210w


=KERFOOT, JOHN BARRETT.= How to read. *$1.25 (2½c) Houghton 028 16-22768

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:240 Mr ‘17

  “This is a most suggestive book. It should lead many to realize the
  mental indigestion from which they suffer, and help them to order
  their reading so as to make it useful.”

       + =Ath= p248 My ‘17 30w

  “Mr Kerfoot is the literary critic of Life; and he has brought into
  his essay that journal’s distinctive tone: the brilliant and piquant
  passing into the flippant, and occasionally degenerating into the
  slangy. But the principles for which he argues are old friends of
  psychology, applied to reading. ... The principles upon which Mr
  Kerfoot dwells are by no means new in themselves, but they may well be
  new to many. The author’s method is certainly novel.”

       + =Cath World= 105:121 Ap ‘17 420w

  “There may have been a more fascinating exposition written in some
  language, at some time, on some subject, than Mr Kerfoot’s book; but
  one is permitted to doubt it.”

       + =Dial= 62:315 Ap 5 ‘17 430w

  “It is all interesting, but we wish he had made some of his statements
  with more directness and fewer explanations.”

       + =Lit D= 54:569 Mr 3 ‘17 150w

  “It is not a humorous book, but it sparkles from the first page at
  frequent intervals clear to 297. Going to such a school is
  delightfully rewarding if one will not expect the teacher to do it
  all. Reaction to the Kerfoot stimulus is not difficult, but it must be
  seriously experienced, not too much at once, if this book is to be a
  veritable ‘open sesame’ to literature.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Mr 1 ‘17 350w


=KERNAHAN, COULSON.= In good company. *$1.50 (2c) Lane 920 17-15319

  A volume of personal reminiscences of distinguished men. Five of the
  papers that compose the contents deal with Theodore Watts-Dunton. The
  other papers are: A. C. Swinburne; Lord Roberts; When Stephen Phillips
  read; Edward Whymper as I knew him; Oscar Wilde; S. J. Stone, the
  hymn-writer.

       + =Ath= p255 My ‘17 140w

  “A miscellany of excellent personalia, somewhat inflated in manner but
  intimate in its revelations of the inner world of literary London.” E.
  F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 6 ‘17 370w

  “Mr Kernahan’s book, like all good company, is stimulating and
  provocative. It is too often dull; it is marred by mysterious hints at
  things the author might tell an he would, and by a very wearisome and
  embarrassing—an almost servile—self-depreciation. And yet the glimpses
  that it affords of such ever-interesting figures as Swinburne,
  Watts-Dunton, Oscar Wilde, and the mountaineer and scientist, Edward
  Whymper, who are the subjects of the best of the sketches, are
  amazingly lifelike.”

     + — =Dial= 63:347 O 11 ‘17 490w

  “The Wilde essay has some things that had better have been left
  unsaid.”

     + — =Ind= 91:291 Ag 25 ‘17 250w

  “Mr Kernahan, in his pictures of his friends, reveals his own
  stature—a man big enough to forget his own importance in a study and
  appreciation of his friends and fellow craftsmen.”

       + =Lit D= 55:45 D 1 ‘17 280w

  “This collection of ‘personal recollections’ superficially resembles
  but essentially differs from the abundant chirping books and articles
  about the celebrities of the day. It differs from them in containing a
  number of deliberately executed literary portraits, composed and
  finished with a clear consciousness that portrait painting is a fine
  art with a technique beyond the reaches of the cheerful chatterbox.”

       + =Nation= 105:486 N 1 ‘17 950w

  “In his circle Mr Kernahan moves with appropriate kindliness and
  dignity and attentiveness. Of his three graces the best is undoubtedly
  the last. He has a fine faculty for remembering and recording what
  people actually said, or what sounds actual.” B. H.

       + =New Repub= 12:309 O 13 ‘17 650w

       + =R of Rs= 56:103 Jl ‘17 100w

  “He pays a fine tribute to Lord Roberts, in whose campaign for
  national service he took part. Like every one else who came into
  contact with that great man, Mr Kernahan was profoundly impressed with
  his courtesy, his patience, and his abounding energy.”

       + =Spec= 118:568 My 19 ‘17 70w

  “One of the most interesting because least familiar sketches in Mr
  Kernahan’s book is that of S. J. Stone, the hymn writer, author of
  ‘The church’s one foundation.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 350w

  “We have enjoyed Mr Kernahan’s book so much that we find ourselves
  asking what the reason can be. ... He succeeds very singularly in
  making us feel that to all these men life was a rich and remarkable
  affair. ... The average person is chiefly struck by the eccentricities
  of the great; Mr Kernahan, on the other hand, bears witness to the
  fullness, sincerity, and passion with which great men live compared
  with lesser men.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p175 Ap 12 ‘17 1050w


=KERR, SOPHIE.= Blue envelope. il *$1.35 (2c) Doubleday 17-5983

  When she is nineteen, Leslie Brennan learns that she must earn her own
  living. It had been her father’s wish, her guardian informs her, that
  she adopt some gainful occupation and support herself for two years.
  The transition from a well-established social position in a small city
  to a business college and boarding house existence in New York is a
  sudden one but Leslie adapts herself to it. She finds a position with
  a red-haired, irascible chemist, and it is when her employer sends her
  to Washington with an important formula intended for the War office
  that exciting events begin for Leslie. It is thru them that she proves
  her mettle, learning at the same time how affairs stand between her
  and the red-haired chemist.

  “Light, good for reading aloud, and has made a good ‘movie.’ Appeared
  in Woman’s Home Companion.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:316 Ap ‘17

  “The story is told with vivacity and skill. A considerable fault is
  the not infrequently reviewed recital of happenings for the benefit of
  persons in the story not as well informed as the readers of the book.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 23 ‘17 330w

       + =N Y Times= 22:172 Ap 29 ‘17 270w

  “There is a delightful vein of humor throughout the tale, and, while
  the pictures of difficulties encountered by working girls are vivid
  and serious, the story is quickly diverted to a more romantic and
  improbable course.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 270w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:126 Ap ‘17 50w


=KERRUISH, JESSIE DOUGLAS.= Miss Haroun Al-Raschid. *$1.50 (1c) Doran
17-13954

  “Rathia Jerningham, heroine and narrator of the tale, has led a very
  unusual kind of life. Her mother, Rathia Khan, of Abasside descent,
  having died when she was but a baby, her father married a courageous
  English lady who went with him on all his expeditions. It was often
  very dangerous, for Sir Horne Jerningham was a really great
  Assyriologist; as his daughter grew up, she shared his work and became
  herself an expert. But before this Lady Jerningham the second had also
  died, several years had been spent in England, and Rathia had a year
  in society before she returned to Asiatic Turkey, leaving her
  half-sister, Evelyn, and two brothers to be educated in England. The
  novel begins with the coming of this half-sister to Constantinople,
  whence she insists upon accompanying her father and Rathia to their
  home in Mosul. Through Kurdistan and Mesopotamia the story takes us
  into Armenian villages, among the Chaldean Christians, and into the
  hold of a Kurdish mountain chief. ... There is a love story interwoven
  with it all. ... The period is the early nineties, when Victoria was
  still on the throne of England, and the Armenian massacres were
  brewing.”—N Y Times

  “The author apparently knows well the life of which she writes, for
  her novel contains an abundance of illuminating and interesting
  detail.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:322 S 2 ‘17 650w

       + =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 70w

  “This novel is a little confusing and difficult to follow in its hurry
  of events, but much may be forgiven for the sake of the vivid picture
  of Mesopotamia given us by the author. The part of the book which
  deals with Assyriological excavations in the Land of the two rivers
  furnishes most timely reading, and incidentally affords much detailed
  information as to the conditions under which our troops are fighting
  in that theatre of war.”

     + — =Spec= 118:544 My 12 ‘17 80w

  “An exceedingly well-told tale, full of color, excitement, and solid
  information. The last named is so smoothly merged with the element of
  fiction, however, that it never transcends the imaginative atmosphere
  surrounding the narrative.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 460w

  “Miss Kerruish’s story has won the first prize in her publishers’
  thousand-guinea novel competition, and both the authoress and her
  judges are to be congratulated on a decision with which her readers
  will have good reason to agree.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p166 Ap 5 ‘17 790w


=KESTER, PAUL.= His own country. *$1.50 (1c) Bobbs 17-17972

  “The plot of ‘His own country’ centres around the personality of
  Julius Cæsar Brent, whose blood is but one-eighth black. While still a
  boy he goes to Montreal, becomes in time a physician, marries twice,
  in each case a white woman. He has three children, a son and two
  daughters. In middle age the call of his native Virginia rings loud in
  his ears, and having acquired a competence, he purchases an old estate
  by correspondence and without revealing his identity as a former slave
  boy who once dwelt in a cabin in the very district of tidewater
  Virginia to which he returns. ... He is denied all social recognition.
  Against the appeal of his wife, he decides to remain, subjecting her
  and his children to a degrading humiliation even greater than his own.
  The months and the years pass. He becomes a national figure, lectures
  far and wide on the race question, heads a great movement to make the
  negroes a permanent political and financial power, and finally brings
  upon himself and two of his children the doom of death. A thousand and
  one details of his association with his fellow Virginians of both
  races add to the length and substance of the story, and numerous plots
  and counterplots in it increase its persistent sensationalism.”—Boston
  Transcript

  “The book is long, rather unpleasant, and will have a limited appeal.”

       — =A L A Bkl= 14:27 O ‘17

  “The hand of the playwright betrays itself in the series of dramatic
  or melodramatic episodes upon which the story hinges. ... As a tract
  this book, prophesying as it does a great struggle to the death
  between the black race and the white, may do more harm than good; as a
  story, with all its touches of realism, it amounts to a skilful
  melodramatic contrivance on a great scale.” H. W. Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 45:647 Ag ‘17 800w

  “His facts run away with him, and his imagination plays havoc with
  them. ... His story becomes a veritable chaos of ill-constructed
  incidents. It is the wildest sort of sensation. ... Its pictorial
  quality is unquestioned, its creation of both black and white
  character is remarkable in its truth to life, it contains many
  incidents strong in their realism, its dialogue abounds in shrewd
  human touches, but the story as a whole falls far short of reaching
  the dignity of its theme and of achieving the sincerity of the
  novelist’s purpose.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 3 ‘17 800w

  “As a novel, the story is interesting; as a psychological study and as
  a thought-provoking introduction to more serious consideration of the
  future of the colored race in America, it deserves attention. To
  offset the prolixity and occasional stiffness there is a sincere and
  wholesome study of conditions and atmosphere that cannot fail to
  impress the reader.”

     + — =Dial= 63:163 Ag 30 ‘17 110w

  “We are all thinking first of the war. But we must not forget the
  problems of democracy facing us at home, and no one of these is more
  important than the problem of right and justice in our relations with
  the colored people. ... The story does not offer any solution for the
  race problem but it does present the tragic situation fairly and
  humanly.”

       + =Ind= 91:133 Jl 28 ‘17 280w

  “Fully and strongly as the case for ‘the nigger’ is put by Brent in
  speech, it is all belied by Brent in action. He can go so far and no
  farther towards greatness, fails always to meet the supreme tests. ...
  This theory of his essential inferiority by reason of the ‘black drop’
  in him emerges as the dubitable idea underlying this elaborate and, on
  the whole, melodramatic narrative.”

     – + =Nation= 106:148 Ag 9 ‘17 700w

  “Dr Brent is not a tragic figure, nor one that wins the reader’s
  sympathies. He is not even convincing. The whole story reads much as
  if Mr Kester meant it to be a warning of the dangers of negro
  progress.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:302 Ag 19 ‘17 850w

  “With very considerable talent, and with more than average knowledge
  of his subjectmatter, he has written a strange and wonderful
  melodrama, at times verging on power, at times so crude as to be
  scarcely tolerable.”

     – + =No Am= 206:797 N ‘17 850w

  “So far as it discusses race problems it would be a better book if the
  author showed evidence of the slightest knowledge about the effort
  made by Booker Washington, Hampton and Tuskegee, and their friends,
  North and South, black and white, to make a good man and a good
  citizen out of the negro. He seems to have the idea that the friends
  of the negro are chiefly occupied in advocating miscegenation and
  negro supremacy.”

     – + =Outlook= 116:556 Ag 8 ‘17 200w

  “Mr Kester is neither academic nor melodramatic. The ethics of the
  question are presented without weakening the dramatic and emotional
  elements inherent in the tale. It is a very long, but at no point,
  tedious book. ... which makes a deep impression on the reader.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 500w


=KETCHAM, EDWARD AUGUSTUS.= Fire insurance. $2.50 E: A: Ketcham,
Madison, Wis. 368 16-11610

  “The author has been for ten years an examiner in a state insurance
  department and his purpose in writing this book is stated to be ‘to
  place in convenient form the essential elements relating to the fire
  insurance business ... for the student.’ The following chapters occupy
  218 of the 301 pages and constitute the important part of the book:
  History of fire insurance (two chapters), Rating of risks, Fire
  insurance accounting, and Examination of a fire insurance company.”—Am
  Econ R

  “The book is almost wholly descriptive, with much detail in parts of
  it. The style is good, but there is a lack of unity and logical
  arrangement, each chapter reading as if it had been prepared as a
  paper or as an address. There is little discussion of the fundamental
  principles underlying fire insurance or of the concrete problems which
  arise in the conduct of the business. ... No index is provided; and
  this in a book lacking unity, and almost wholly descriptive in
  character, becomes a more than ordinarily serious defect.” W: F.
  Gephart

         =Am Econ R= 6:934 D ‘16 800w

         =St Louis= 15:10 Ja ‘17 10w


=KETTLE, THOMAS MICHAEL.= Poems and parodies. *$1 Stokes 821 (Eng ed
17-17077)

  The author, late professor of Irish economics in the National
  university of Ireland, was killed in France in 1916. This little book
  of his poems has an appreciative foreword by William Dawson. The poems
  themselves are grouped as: Personal; Early poems; Translations;
  Miscellaneous; Political; War poems.

  “They are the reflection of a mind quick and free, rich in subtle
  ironies and tendernesses, but most frequently—since it was the mind of
  an Irish patriot—full of a brilliant indignation.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:393 D ‘17 340w

  “Those who are interested in following the careers of the men who have
  made the big concern of their lives the political emancipation of
  Ireland will no doubt be interested in this volume, but it has no
  particular claim to one’s attention as straight poetry or parody
  though it is all quite clever.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 290w

  “The charm and the finest quality of Kettle’s poems come out in the
  dreaming. He fought the Germans for a dream, as he had fought England
  for a dream; and however uncomfortable it may be for the politicians
  and rulers of the Empire when this power is expended upon politics,
  this heroic dreaming is the source of all good Irish literature.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p56 F 1 ‘17 450w


=KETTLE, THOMAS MICHAEL.=[2] Ways of war; with a memoir by his wife,
Mary S. Kettle. *$2.75 Scribner 940.91 (Eng ed 17-28917)

  “Barrister-at-law, poet, literary stylist, patriotic Irishman,
  eloquent speaker, member of Parliament, journalist, professor of
  economics, and finally a soldier, giving up his life at Ginchy on
  Sept. 9, 1916, ‘at the post of honour, leading his men in a victorious
  charge,’ Kettle was a man of the loftiest ideals. ... The memoir by
  his wife is followed by a sequence of chapters which constitute the
  apologia of an Irish man of letters as to why he felt called upon to
  offer up his life in the war for the freedom of the world. The first
  section of the book, ‘Why Ireland fought,’ includes chapters upon ‘The
  bullying of Serbia’ and ‘The crime against Belgium.’ In the early days
  of the war Kettle was in Brussels, and had opportunities of visiting
  Termonde, Malines, and other places. A striking chapter of the book
  deals with the soldier-priests of France.”—Ath

       + =Ath= p507 O ‘17 970w

       + =Ath= p525 O ‘17 200w

  “The book will help to fill a small and solitary shelf in the big
  library this world-conflict is creating; for it is rich in two of
  literature’s prime essentials, a lucid and beautiful style, and a
  fervor in expression that is well-nigh that of the mystic who is a
  zealot.” S. A.

       + =Boston Transcript= p3 D 15 ‘17 590w

  “The volume is composed of various papers, all bearing the marks of a
  rare style and scholarship. There are pungent and vivid pages on the
  scenes he witnessed in Belgium, and on various phases of life at the
  front, a scathing study of Bismarck, Nietzsche, and Treitschke in ‘The
  gospel of the devil,’ while the ‘Rhapsody on rats’ is typical of
  Kettle’s racy wit.”

       + =Nation= 106:96 Ja 24 ‘18 470w

         =New Repub= 13:256 D 29 ‘17 1850w

         =N Y Times= 23:20 Ja 20 ‘18 900w

  “Read this book that you may receive comfort and confidence from the
  unquenchable spirit of the new France. Read the memoir, written simply
  and movingly by Kettle’s widow, that you may come to love the man for
  what he was and the country which begat him.”

       + =Spec= 119:297 S 22 ‘17 1300w

  “The book contains some brilliant little sketches of life at the
  front.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p439 S 13 ‘17 860w


=KILMER, JOYCE.=, ed. Literature in the making. *$1.40 (3c) Harper 810.4
17-13416

  Mr Kilmer reports interviews with a number of contemporary men and
  women of letters. He says in explanation of his purpose: “How eagerly
  would we read an interview with Francis Bacon on the question of the
  authorship of Shakespeare’s plays, or an interview with Oliver
  Goldsmith in which he gave his real opinion of Dr Johnson, Garrick,
  and Boswell! A century or so from now, some of the writers who in this
  book talk to the world may be the objects of curiosity as great.”
  Among the subjects discussed with various authors are: War stops
  literature—William Dean Howells; The joys of the poor—Kathleen Norris;
  National prosperity and art—Booth Tarkington; Romanticism and American
  humor—Montague Glass; Commercializing the sex instinct—Robert Herrick;
  Literature in the colleges—John Erskine; The new spirit in poetry—Amy
  Lowell. The interviews were written up first for the New York Times.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:440 Jl ‘17

  “Much sense and much nonsense will be found, as might be expected, in
  these interviews.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 My 12 ‘17 480w

  “A book of fascinating quality and wide appeal.”

       + =Cath World= 105:681 Ag ‘17 280w

  “The titles of the interviews really promise more than the interviewer
  accomplished but some interesting things are said with point and
  humor.”

     + — =Cleveland= p89 Jl ‘17 100w

  Reviewed by G: B. Donlin

       — =Dial= 62:519 Je 14 ‘17 250w

       + =Lit D= 55:48 Ag 4 ‘17 180w

         =Nation= 104:662 My 31 ‘17 300w

  “A genial, human, gratifying, and readable book. ... A brief
  biographical paragraph in the table of contents after each author’s
  name gives an outline of his life and work.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:262 Jl 15 ‘17 500w

         =R of Rs= 56:104 Jl ‘17 110w

  “The interviews by Joyce Kilmer which have appeared in the magazine
  section of the Sunday New York Times may be said to have outlived
  their usefulness. The papers in collected form are a veritable
  hodge-podge. ... It must not be inferred that Mr Kilmer ‘writes down,’
  that he is inept, or that he distorts; he is too good a newspaper man
  and too honest a writer for that. The papers were not intended to have
  permanent form, and that is why they appear to such disadvantage in
  it.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 280w


=KILMER, JOYCE.= Main street, and other poems. *$1 Doran 811 17-28181

  Mr Kilmer is now an officer in America’s new army, and six of the
  twenty-eight poems in this volume are about the war. “The white ships
  and the red” deals with the Lusitania, while “The cathedral of Rheims”
  is from the French of Émile Verhaeren. Nearly half of the remaining
  poems deal with religious subjects.

  “At his best he rises to a very noble achievement. The discipline of
  the sonnet is excellently medicinal for him: it belts him in where he
  might sag.” C. D. M.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 O 10 ‘17 1000w

  “The volume just published brings its expected revelation of ‘growth.’
  It is an advance over ‘Trees’ not in quantity—for it is still slim—but
  in the quality, that is to say, the variety of its verse. And its
  variousness proves Mr Kilmer not less but more a poet of ‘that little,
  infinite thing, the human heart.’”

       + =Cath World= 106:405 D ‘17 670w

  “Facile verse with an aroma of medieval mysticism.”

       + =Cleveland= p134 D ‘17 110w

  “The publisher tells us that Mr Kilmer has had, for a man still young,
  an astonishing varied career. Nevertheless, one could not guess it
  from Mr Kilmer’s book. Ideas, emotions, language, rhythms, all are
  oddly second-hand, as if they had been offered to him and blandly
  accepted.” Conrad Aiken

       — =Dial= 63:513 N 22 ‘17 400w

  “That delicacy and charm that have characterized Mr Joyce Kilmer’s
  work in the past are found, with an added note of strong religious
  fervor, in his new volume of verse.”

       + =Lit D= 55:38 N 24 ‘17 1350w

  “In singing quality and in the command of his medium this new
  collection, largely of lyrics and sonnets, is quite the best he has
  published. More marked in it also than in his former books, although
  it has always been one of his distinguishing qualities, is a certain
  friendly, human feeling.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:530 D 2 ‘17 360w


=KILNER, WALTER G., and MACELROY, ANDREW J.=[2] Cantonment manual; or,
Facts for every soldier. il *$1 Appleton 355 17-31017

  This book of “facts for every soldier,” prepared by two army officers,
  attempts to cover briefly the entire field of military training.
  Chapters are given to: Helpful hints for recruits, Setting-up
  exercises, Infantry drill, School of the squad, School of the company,
  Inspections and muster, Honors and salutes, Tent pitching, Signals and
  signaling, etc. The last chapter provides an “Easy road to French.”
  Miscellaneous matter, including music for the bugle calls, is given in
  an appendix. The book is indexed.

  “Provides a great fund of practical information and advice.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:102 Ja ‘18 50w


=KIMBALL, MARIA (BRACE) (MRS JAMES P. KIMBALL).= Soldier-doctor of our
army, James P. Kimball. il *$1.50 (5c) Houghton 17-9244

  The wide extent of Dr Kimball’s service as an army surgeon is
  indicated by the chapter titles: College and Civil war; Fort
  Buford—the frontier; The Yellowstone expedition; The Black hills and
  the Big Horn; The Thornburgh massacre; Texas—Europe—Texas; New
  Mexico—Santa Fé; New Mexico—Fort Wingate; Governor’s Island—the war
  with Spain. This memoir, prepared by his wife, is interestingly
  illustrated. There is an introduction by Major-General William C.
  Gorgas.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:447 Jl ‘17

  “The career of Surgeon Kimball is a distinct part of the history of
  the country, and a delightful sidelight on certain events that the
  historian, with mind intent on the high tops, does not and can not
  include.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 190w

       + =Nation= 105:539 N 15 ‘17 1400w

         =Pratt= p48 O ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:186 Je ‘17


=KING, BASIL.= High heart. il *$1.50 (1½c) Harper 17-24285

  “Alexandra Adare, who tells her own story, is a Canadian, well born,
  who had lived an easy life until her father’s death left her almost
  penniless. ... She was without a suitor of any kind when Mrs Rossiter,
  who before her marriage had been Miss Brokenshire, one of the
  extremely rich Brokenshires of New York and Newport, ... engaged her
  as nursery governess for her little daughter. Then, of course, Hugh
  Brokenshire, Mrs Rossiter’s brother, fell in love with Alix, and the
  family objected, especially J. Howard Brokenshire, the father, an
  autocrat with the worst possible manners. ... The relations of Alix
  with the various members of the Brokenshire family, especially with
  the redoubtable J. Howard and his beautiful young second wife, furnish
  the main part of the story.” (N Y Times) The war enters slightly into
  the latter part of the story.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:96 D ‘17

  “The book has the interest of setting forth the different ways in
  which Canadians and Americans viewed the earlier stages of the great
  European conflict.”

       + =Ath= p680 D ‘17 70w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:338 N ‘17 130w

         =Dial= 63:463 N 8 ‘17 170w

  “J. Howard Brokenshire is never anything but a wooden figure which
  moves as the author jerks the wires. But since this is true of every
  character in the novel, he does not thereby become exceptional.”

   — — + =N Y Times= 22:354 S 23 ‘17 450w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:750 N ‘17 40w

         =Spec= 119:682 D 8 ‘17 20w

  “A story to be read thoughtfully. It contains several striking
  characters—the elder Brokenshire, for example, and one or two minor
  persons. Its principal significance lies in comparing three branches
  of the English-speaking race—the native Britons, the Canadians, or
  ‘Colonials,’ and the people of the United States—and in setting forth
  the vast influence for peace and the good of humanity that will be
  evolved when all three come to realize that their fundamental moral
  principles are one and the same.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 900w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p542 N 8 ‘17 140w


=KING, BASIL.= Lifted veil. il *$1.40 (1c) Harper 17-8203

  The woman who came to Arthur Bainbridge’s study was heavily veiled.
  She told her story and went away. When she comes into his life again
  three years later he does not recognize her. Out of this situation
  rises the complication that gives the story its plot. Clorinda
  Gildersleeve thinks that the clergyman to whom she had gone as a
  sinner must know her. When he has learned to love her, she takes his
  love as an evidence of his divine forgiveness, and promises to marry
  him. The revelation comes to him later. He stands the test but it is
  when she learns that he has not, as she had supposed, known the truth
  from the beginning that the real barrier to their marriage is raised.

  “The situations are tense and the discussions, though very carefully
  handled, will offend some readers both in their nature and in their
  conclusions. Appeared in McClure’s Magazine.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:403 Je ‘17

  “In all its scenes ‘The lifted veil’ is very close to life. ... It
  offers a clear view of the experiences that confront us every day.” E.
  F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p13 Ap 7 ‘17 450w

  “A harmless book, carelessly constructed, somewhat verbose, and
  arriving nowhere in particular.”

       — =Dial= 62:401 My 3 ‘17 350w

  “In substance the story, like its predecessors, is helplessly and not
  altogether wholesomely romantic, the old set illusion tricked out in
  the costume of the hour, and made palatable to Mr King’s large
  audience, we fear, rather as refined sex-melodrama than as anything
  else: a means of escape, not of access.”

       — =Nation= 105:16 Jl 5 ‘17 180w

  “Basil King’s new novel is in many ways quite the best that has come
  from his pen.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:94 Mr 18 ‘17 570w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 29 ‘17 400w


=KING, DOUGALL MACDOUGALL.= Battle with tuberculosis and how to win it.
il *$1.50 (2½c) Lippincott 616.2 17-25108

  The author practiced medicine for ten years, was for eighteen months a
  patient at sanatoria in Canada and the United States and resided for
  two years in a health resort. He has become convinced that many deaths
  from tuberculosis occur because the majority of patients do not “begin
  to comprehend the significance of the reasons underlying the only
  treatment that will bring success.” He has therefore written this
  “book for the patient and his friends” to set forth “the fundamental
  scientific facts which help to answer the patient’s constant
  inquiry—Why must I do this?” (Introd.) The appendix treats of
  disinfectants.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:81 D ‘17

  “It is probably the first book ever written which turns the discussion
  of a dreaded malady into a military romance of thrilling interest. The
  book will bring hope and cheer to thousands of homes. It deserves a
  wide advertisement from pulpit and press and should be found in every
  public library in the land.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 12 ‘18 190w

  “He has written an unusually clear and helpful manual-at-arms for
  popular guidance. It is made clearer by the frequent use of simile,
  chiefly drawn from army life.”

       + =Dial= 63:460 N 8 ‘17 250w

       + =Nation= 105:672 D 13 ‘17 250w

  “With the increasing number of books of a popular nature for
  tuberculosis patients and their families, Dr King’s book will have a
  certain amount of competition. His new and refreshing point of view,
  however, will help to stimulate flagging interest on the part of many
  tuberculosis patients and workers.” P. P. Jacobs

       + =Survey= 39:266 D 1 ‘17 250w


=KING, HENRY CHURCHILL.= Fundamental questions. *$1.50 (3½c) Macmillan
230 17-3741

  The author’s aim is “to deal, in not too technical fashion, with some
  of the most fundamental questions, theoretical and practical, which
  are involved in the Christian view of God and the world.” Among these
  problems are: The question of suffering and sin; The question of
  prayer; The question of Christ; The question of life’s fundamental
  decision; The question of Christian unity; The question of
  Christianity as a world religion.

  “The last chapter, ‘Citizens of a new civilization,’ is a thrilling
  statement of the universal meaning and claim of Christianity that must
  find an answer from anyone who is sensitive to the call to high and
  heroic duty. The climax of this chapter and therefore of the book is
  superb.”

       + =Bib World= 50:255 O ‘17 270w

  Reviewed by James Moffat

       + =Hibbert J= 15:678 Jl ‘17 60w

       + =Ind= 91:34 Jl 7 ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p7 Jl ‘17 20w

       + =R of Rs= 55:553 My ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:136 My ‘17 7w

  “A fine spirit and authentic vision mark ‘Fundamental questions’, by
  Henry Churchill King, the president of Oberlin college. ... President
  King writes with sympathy and penetration, and his words should be
  helpful to many who are perplexed at the trend of present-day life and
  the greatness of its problems.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 4 ‘17 250w


=KINGMAN, HENRY.=[2] Faith of a middle-aged man. *$1.25 (2½c) Pilgrim
press 240 17-25597

  “A little book of reassurance for troubled times,” promises the
  author. It is for men and women, preoccupied with innumerable cares,
  that the message is given, men and women whose interest in the
  chapters “will not come from their wisdom but from the elemental
  heart-hunger that is common to us all.” The first part treats of “The
  ground of faith” in eight chapters: Life’s need of faith; The appeal
  of middle age; The years of attrition; Faith’s inner citadel; The life
  as a witness to the truth; The personality of Jesus; The witness of
  the life-stream; The place of the cross. The second part enlarges upon
  “The outlook of faith” in seven chapters: The fact of God; The divine
  outlook on man; The good fight; The discipline of pain; Overcoming
  under difficulties; The hope of everlasting life; The unending
  fellowship.

  “The book is sure to find a place in more than current and ephemeral
  reading.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 31 ‘17 120w

  “The book is just what one might expect of Dr Kingman. Between the
  lines his friends can read autobiography, and are not disappointed in
  the courage and faith and fine manliness that speak out from a life
  where physique has failed to match aspiration, and success has been
  attained by stern heroism.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 5 ‘18 490w


=KINGSBURY, HELEN OVINGTON.= All aboard for Wonderland. il *$1.50 (4c)
Moffat 18-1718

  A story for younger children. Donald and Rose have spent a wonderful
  day in the city. Railway terminal, Christmas shops, Hippodrome and
  city streets have offered them a series of marvels, one after another.
  Tired and happy and a little bit sleepy, they sit waiting for their
  train and listening to the trainman’s voice: “Five forty express for
  Washington—all aboard.” And then: “Five fifty-nine express for India
  and the elephants—all aboard!” And immediately Donald and Rose find
  themselves all aboard and off for Wonderland. What follows is a dream
  story in which the real events of the day are made to blend fancifully
  into the dream. There are attractive illustrations, four of them in
  color, by Gertrude Alice Kay.

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

     + — =Bookm= 46:495 D ‘17 50w

       + =N Y Times= 22:441 O 28 ‘17 100w

  “The story is well conceived and entertainingly written, and the
  several illustrations in color add to its charm.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 100w


=KINGSLEY, FLORENCE (MORSE) (MRS CHARLES R. KINGSLEY).= Neighbors *$1.40
(2½c) Dodd 17-24704

  The central character of this story is Miss Malvina Bennett, the
  village dressmaker of Innisfield. The reader is also introduced to
  Malvina’s rival, Mrs Hobbs, who puts out a sign “Madame Louise—Robes”
  and draws much of the village custom; to Mrs Hobbs’ son who longs to
  enlist in the English army; to Harry Schwartz, who works in the
  munitions factory under the name of Le Noir; and to Madeleine Desaye
  who has fled from France with her father, and with whom these two
  young men are in love. Miss Philura, now Mrs Reverend Pettibone, who
  has figured in other stories by Mrs Kingsley, reappears in this with a
  new baby.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:96 D ‘17

  “The characters are stereotyped ones, but the author has a faculty for
  making them charming. Perhaps the greatest drawback to one’s enjoyment
  of the book is the tiresome use of dialect.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:414 O 21 ‘17 260w

  “Mrs Kingsley’s new heroine, Malvina Bennett, village dressmaker in
  Innisfield, is just as pleasing in her own way as was Miss Philura.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 300w


=KINNE, HELEN, and COOLEY, ANNA MARIA.= Clothing and health.
(Home-making ser.) il *65c Macmillan 646 16-18558

  “‘Clothing and health’ treats of the elementary work in sewing, which
  precedes garment making. It also discusses the leading textile
  materials, telling where they are grown and how they are manufactured
  ready for use. The hygiene of clothing, the buying of material, the
  use of the commercial pattern and the care and repair of clothing are
  discussed in connection with the lessons on sewing and
  textiles.”—Springf’d Republican

         =Cleveland= p127 N ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:144 My ‘17

  “A hundred and fifty illustrations enrich the text of this book of 300
  pages, as excellent as its mate.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 16:356 Ap ‘17 50w

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 29 ‘17 50w

  “For use in elementary schools, specially rural schools. ... Lessons
  and questions make it a useful textbook, or it can be used in the
  home.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:127 Ap ‘17 40w


=KINNE, HELEN, and COOLEY, ANNA MARIA.= Home and the family.
(Home-making ser.) il *80c Macmillan 640 17-3475

  “This is an elementary text book of home making, to be used as a
  supplementary reader, and source book. It describes the decoration and
  furnishing of a cottage at Pleasant Valley in a way that develops a
  strong desire to go and do likewise.”—School Arts Magazine

  “Has a chapter with simple directions on how to care for ‘the most
  important member of the family,’ the baby, and one on right living and
  how to keep well. Good print and illustrations.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:297 Ap ‘17

       + =Nature= 100:3 S 6 ‘17 300w

         =St Louis= 15:113 Ap ‘17

  “Four color plates and 185 other illustrations add to the
  attractiveness and to the value of this sensible volume.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 16:356 Ap ‘17 60w


=KIPLING, RUDYARD.= Diversity of creatures. *$1.50 (1½c) Doubleday
17-11707

  A collection of stories and poems. A number of the stories have
  appeared in American magazines: “In the same boat,” in Harper’s
  Magazine, December, 1911; “In the presence,” in Everybody’s, March,
  1912; “The vortex,” in Scribner’s Magazine, August, 1914; “Swept and
  garnished,” in the Century Magazine, January, 1915; and “Mary
  Postgate,” in the Century Magazine, September, 1915. There are
  fourteen stories and about an equal number of poems.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:404 Je ‘17

  “He has never shown himself a greater master of the art of
  story-telling, never combined creative imagination with more
  triumphant realism, or handled his own English prose with more ease,
  economy, and certainty of effect. The first of the fourteen, ‘As easy
  as A. B. C.,’ is perhaps the finest short story of the future ever
  written.”

       + =Ath= p240 My ‘17 850w

       + =Ath= p254 My ‘17 180w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 45:537 Jl ‘17 330w

  “Two of them, ‘Swept and garnished’ and ‘Mary Postgate,’ are products
  of the war, and that they reveal him at his best is evidence of his
  command of the vital facts of life. Both are grim.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 My 12 ‘17 1600w

  “In these stories Kipling presents the lamentable spectacle of the
  writer who has written himself out. From ‘As easy as A. B. C.,’ a
  wearisome, drawn-out, scientific tale in the early H. G. Wells manner,
  To ‘Mary Postgate,’ an account of the war’s reactive effect on two
  lonely women, he gives on the whole only meagre evidence of that power
  which in the eighteen-nineties made his name famous over the globe.
  The fourteen tales vary in merit, but by a curious grouping the
  poorest and dullest rank first, the last five stories are the best of
  the collection. There are two stories of practical jokes on a large
  scale—‘The village that voted the earth was flat’ and ‘The horse
  marines.’ The last is the better, and has more than a little of the
  old rollicking humor of ‘Soldiers three.’ ‘The village that voted the
  earth was flat’ is interesting in conception, but is drawn out to such
  impossible conclusions and to such an unconscionable length as to
  destroy its effect.”

     – + =Cath World= 105:684 Ag ‘17 280w

  “The best stories in this volume are Kipling all over. ... His old
  vigor of phrase is undiminished, both the vigor which is beauty and
  the vigor which is brutality.” J: Macy

       + =Dial= 62:441 My 17 ‘17 950w

  “Three stories stand out from the book sufficiently to assure them a
  place in the anthologies of the future, ‘As easy as A B C,’ ‘In the
  same boat,’ and ‘The village that voted the earth was flat.’”

       + =Ind= 90:350 My 19 ‘17 550w

     + — =Lit D= 54:1858 Je 16 ‘17 160w

         =Nation= 104:632 My 24 ‘17 550w

     + — =New Repub= 11:112 My 26 ‘17 1100w

       + =N Y Times= 22:177 My 6 ‘17 1100w

  Reviewed by Fremont Rider

     + — =Pub W= 91:1315 Ap 21 ‘17 300w

  “Only two of the stories actually deal with the war, and in them the
  author is at his best. They have restraint and dignity. There are no
  tricks or fireworks, but they are written with immense power and
  sincerity. In striking contrast to these are the two ‘comic’ stories,
  ‘The village that voted the earth was flat’ and ‘The horse marines,’
  which are as bad as anything that Mr Kipling has done in the way of
  whipped-up humour.”

     + — =Sat R= 123:368 Ap 21 ‘17 600w

       + =Spec= 118:461 Ap 21 ‘17 1800w

  “‘The village that voted the earth was flat’ and ‘In the presence’ not
  only transcend the others in merit, but are also most
  characteristically Kiplingesque.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 13 ‘17 770w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p186 Ap 19 ‘17 750w


=KIPLING, RUDYARD.= Sea warfare. *$1.25 (4c) Doubleday 940.91 17-7953

  “The fringes of the fleet,” printed earlier in a separate volume, is
  included here as the first of three parts. Parts 2 and 3 are Tales of
  “The trade” and Destroyers at Jutland. By “The trade” is meant the
  submarine service. A number of poems are included.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:346 My ‘17

  “This collection of Mr Kipling’s recent articles exhibits his genius
  for vivid description of the almost indescribable, and his power of
  giving life to brute engines and physical energies, at its highest.”

       + =Ath= p601 D ‘16 50w

  “Only one American writer has so far laid his finger on the secret by
  which Kipling may be understood. In a recent article Mr Will Irwin
  discussed the cleavage in the British race between Norman blood and
  Saxon—a cleavage that very few understand but that is very
  illuminating. Rudyard Kipling is clear Saxon. He sees and writes from
  the Saxon point of view. His Norman-blooded officers are seen from
  beneath. ... In his most recent book he has given us again the purely
  Saxon viewpoint, writing as a brother when he writes of Grimsby
  fishermen. On the other hand, his officers (and the navy with its
  rigorous caste rule is practically all Norman on the upper deck) are
  admirable at a little distance.”

       + =Dial= 62:358 Ap 19 ‘17 450w

     + — =Ind= 90:35 Ap 2 ‘17 370w

       + =N Y Times= 22:179 My 6 ‘17 700w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:529 Je ‘17 10w

  “The ‘Destroyers at Jutland’ chapter furnishes the real interest of
  the book.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Ap 6 ‘17 420w

  “Have an atmosphere and flavor of their own; they sometimes seem
  tenuous and even confused, but their effect is cumulative, the
  significant though often slight incidents related remain in the
  memory, and we conclude, with the author, that ‘the navy is very old
  and very wise.’”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:124 Ap ‘17 70w


=KIRK, MRS ALICE GITCHELL.= Practical food economy. il *$1.25 Little 641
17-24175

  Mrs Kirk offers this book as the direct result of eleven years
  lecturing on home economics and the teaching of all grades from
  kindergarten through the academic departments in cooking. Contents:
  Preparedness in the home; Meats; Bread; Milk; Conservation of fruits
  and vegetables; Use of fruits in season; Service first. Nutrition
  tables, Children’s menus, School lunches for children, A week-end
  vacation for mother, are some of the features of a book designed to
  put in operation Mr Hoover’s direction to “Eat plenty, wisely, and
  without waste.”

       + =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 30w

  “To the average housewife a definition of and a technical treatise on
  the familiar word ‘calorie,’ is not particularly illuminating. In this
  book Mrs Kirk has incorporated a generous list of examples
  representing approximately 100 calories and Professor Atwater’s
  nutrition table which shows the waste and fuel matter (measured in
  calories) of every food variety.”

       + =Ind= 92:344 N 17 ‘17 120w

  “Mrs Kirk’s technical knowledge is sufficient to enable her to find
  untechnical expression for it, and she robs calories of half their
  horror in her careful, practical explanations.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:345 S 16 ‘17 200w

  “Special attention is given to the elimination of waste in buying,
  preparation and cooking. Ways for co-operating with the Food
  administration are suggested. A special section deals with
  ‘understanding the gas range.’ An entire chapter is devoted to bread.
  Decidedly this is the book for all those wishing to become partners
  with Mr Hoover.” Cyra Thomas

       + =Pub W= 92:816 S 15 ‘17 420w

         =R of Rs= 57:220 F ‘18 30w

  “Another valuable point in this book is the amount of space devoted to
  the proper foods for children.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 100w


=KIRKPATRICK, MARION GREENLEAF.= Rural school from within. il *$1.28
(2c) Lippincott 379 17-19387

  This book is largely autobiographical. The author tells the story of
  his teaching experience in a rural school in Kansas some twenty-five
  years ago. It is a very human story in which the characters of the
  young teacher, his pupils and the men and women of the community are
  revealed. With the ripe wisdom that has come from years spent with
  boys and girls, the author discusses some of the problems of education
  and discipline represented in that early experience. He is now
  specialist in education, division of college extension, Kansas State
  agricultural college.

  “Those who have neither attended nor taught a rural school may get
  much local color and good advice, if they desire them, from this
  didactic but interesting narrative. The data on consolidation of
  country schools may appeal to more specialized readers. The proposed
  rural-school curriculum falls far short of the changes which present
  conditions demand.” L. L. Bernard

     + — =Am J Soc= 23:554 Ja ‘18 100w

  “Shows a sympathetic insight into the rural school problem and should
  be a source of inspiration to those interested in rural education.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:113 Ja ‘18

  “A constructive book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 8 ‘17 150w

  “The freshness of his approach to a discussion of these problems and
  of means of making progress towards their solution is the delightful
  quality of a loosely written book; a book humanly rather than
  intellectually original. ... His heart is plainly in what he writes,
  and his sympathy and first-hand experience are refreshing after books
  which make rural education a dehumanized affair of sociology and
  public administration. But to appreciate the homeliness of his book is
  not to forgive its poor organization and padded style.”

     + — =Nation= 105:155 Ag 9 ‘17 220w

  “From the first paragraph to the last it is constructive.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 17:94 O ‘17 110w

  “The spirit and tone of the book is sane and helpful and will help to
  inspire those who sincerely desire to render service to country
  people.” G: L. Roberts

       + =School R= 25:529 S ‘17 180w


=KITTREDGE, MABEL HYDE.= Home and its management. il *$1.50 (1½c)
Century 640 17-13801

  “A handbook in homemaking with three hundred inexpensive cooking
  receipts.” (Sub-title) Among the chapter titles are: The house itself;
  Kitchen; Dining-room; Living-room; Bedrooms; Plumbing; Useful facts
  for the homemaker; Laundry work; Marketing; Division of income; Foods
  and their value. The author is president of the Association of
  practical housekeeping centers in New York city and chairman of the
  New York school lunch committee. She has written several other books
  on housekeeping subjects.

  “An amplification of the material contained in two previous books.
  ‘Practical home making’ and ‘Second course in home making.’ While
  addressed to school girls, the suggestions are helpful and practical
  for all inexperienced housekeepers.”

       + =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 40w

       + =Ind= 91:136 Jl 28 ‘17 60w

  “An authoritative volume.” M. G. S.

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 190w

  “Miss Kittredge’s book begins at the beginning; it takes for granted
  exactly nothing at all. The youngest and most ignorant housekeeper
  will learn the fundamentals here. In its compass of less than 400
  pages, it is a remarkably inclusive book. It will be of particular
  value to the young homemaker in a city apartment. It will be welcomed,
  too, by the woman of limited means.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:284 Jl 29 ‘17 500w

  “There are a great many suggestions about living conditions, such as a
  discussion of the treatment of servants, which hardly belong in a
  textbook for use in settlement or home-training classes. It seems
  almost a self-evident fact that the greatest need of the housekeeper
  at the present time is the ability to evaluate her time and to learn
  thereby how to maintain an efficient home with the least expenditure
  of effort. There is no attempt in Miss Kittredge’s book to even
  suggest this problem, and many of the methods of work that are given
  are unnecessarily time-consuming.” A. R. Hanna

     – + =School R= 25:613 O ‘17 430w

  “Even the most experienced housekeeper will be likely to find
  something new in this volume.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 150w


=KLEENE, GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS.= Profit and wages. *$1.25 (3c) Macmillan 331
17-100

  A study in the distribution of income. Income is differentiated from
  general wealth as “wealth just produced or come into existence.” The
  author examines the various economic theories that have been put forth
  and then arrives at his own conclusions, which go back to doctrines of
  the classical school. Contents: Introduction; Böhm-Bawerk’s theory of
  interest; The time-preference theory; The abstinence theory; The
  productivity theory of interest; The essentials of a theory of profit
  and interest; The theory of wages—The supply of labor; The theory of
  wages—The demand for labor; Conclusion.

  “A clear, well reasoned attempt to state and solve the problem of
  distribution in economics. Scholarly and highly theoretical, it
  complements, but does not replace, other works in this field.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:290 Ap ‘17

  “The book is excellent in style and tone, and a perusal of its
  contents will be particularly useful to economists who have followed
  the subjective theorists into the wilderness of psychological
  determinations.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:365 My ‘17 150w

  “Professor Kleene’s volume must be classified as a contribution to
  economic criticism. ... On its constructive side the book is
  fragmentary and lacks coherence. It doubtless will prove useful both
  to those who are insisting upon a return of theory to the problems and
  methods of classicism and to those who are demanding a newer
  institutional economics. If the book is far weaker as a constructive
  study than as a critical attack, the result is not evidence of
  personal weakness on the part of the author. Rather it affords
  testimony to the existing state of economic theory. In view of their
  problems it is unfortunate that both volumes reveal a lack of
  familiarity with the writings of the school of English economists who
  recently have been giving their attention to the subject of welfare,
  and who of all current theorists seem to be most fully conscious of
  what they are doing.” W. H. Hamilton

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 72:239 Jl ‘17 220w

  “This is a theoretical analysis of the distribution of income, which
  the trained student may find very instructive, but which will never be
  read by the ordinary man of affairs.”

         =Ind= 89:507 Mr 19 ‘17 90w

         =N Y Times= 22:120 Ap 1 ‘17 350w

         =R of Rs= 55:443 Ap ‘17 40w

  “The whole analysis is careful and well reasoned. It will interest
  everyone who is thinking in the field of economics.” H. F. G.

       + =Survey= 38:289 Je 30 ‘17 250w


=KLEIN, ARTHUR JAY.= Intolerance in the reign of Elizabeth, queen of
England. *$2 Houghton 274.2 17-4838

  “This careful study (by the professor of history in Wheaton college,
  Norton, Massachusetts) of the religious and political animosities rife
  in the Elizabethan era shows, as the author remarks, that the great
  queen’s reign is ‘not altogether an encouraging field to the idealist
  seeking in the past for the first rays of the light of tolerance.’
  Anglicans, Catholics, and Presbyterians contended, and intrigued
  against each other, with bitterness and persistence.” (Ath) “Mr
  Klein ... makes clear his belief that the comparative tolerance of the
  Anglican church was none of its choosing, but was imposed upon it for
  political reasons by the queen.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

  “If Professor Klein had called his book a brief sketch of
  ecclesiastical controversies during the reign of Elizabeth and had
  made no pretensions beyond a careful restatement of the conclusions
  already reached by competent scholars, the book could have been
  commended as vital, interesting, and for the most part accurate. But
  as a history of intolerance during the reign of Elizabeth—it must be
  said in all kindliness—the book possesses the remarkable deficiency of
  saying very little about it. ... The long bibliography and the
  acknowledgments in the preface raise expectations of a more extended
  study of manuscript and printed sources than the text substantiates,
  for the great majority of its details are supported abundantly by
  standard secondary authorities and the foot-notes are devoted mainly
  to Strype, the Parker society’s publications, and the State Papers,
  Domestic.” R. G. Usher

         =Am Hist R= 22:890 Jl ‘17 580w

       + =Ath= p257 My ‘17 150w

  “The bibliography is not critical, and evidences the author’s
  anti-Catholic prejudice. He warns his readers against accepting the
  statements of Catholic writers, but says nothing against unfair books
  like Bury’s ‘A history of freedom of thought.’ Again he is not aware
  of the utter unreliability of Sarpi’s history of Trent, nor does he
  apparently know that a new critical history of the Council is in
  course of publication.”

       — =Cath World= 105:546 Jl ‘17 670w

     + — =Dial= 62:317 Ap 5 ‘17 300w

  “The truth is that the intolerance of churches is an antiquated issue;
  it is the intolerance of states with which we fight to-day. ... To the
  question ‘When does persecution cease to be persecution?’ Mr Klein
  seems to provide the facile answer ‘When it is done by the state.’ ...
  The bibliography is portentous and indiscriminate, amounting to nearly
  a fifth of the text.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p208 My 3 ‘17 1400w


=KLEIN, FÉLIX.= Hope in suffering; memories and reflections of a French
army chaplain; tr. from the French ‘Les douleurs qui espèrent,’ by Gemma
Bailey; with an introd. by Canon H. Scott Holland. *4s 6d Melrose,
London 242

  “It was the Abbé Klein, of the American hospital, Neuilly, Paris, who
  gave us the sad and moving little book ‘La guerre vue d’une
  ambulance’—translated under the title ‘Diary of a French army
  chaplain.’ The present little book has the same poignant note of
  single-mindedness; and it is not confined to ‘memories’ for about a
  third of it contains ‘Reflections’—on the problem of Evil, Grief,
  Atonement, ‘Lux in tenebris,’ &c.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

         =Ath= p474 O ‘16 70w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:94 Je ‘17

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p503 O 19 ‘16 80w


=KLEISER, GRENVILLE.= Fifteen thousand useful phrases. *$1.60 Funk 808
17-30916

  That this is a work for study rather than for reference is made clear
  in the author’s preface on How to use this book, in which he says,
  “The method used for building a large vocabulary has usually been
  confined to the study of single words. This has produced good results,
  but it is believed that eminently better results can be obtained from
  a careful study of words and expressions, as furnished in this book,
  where words can be examined in their context.” The phrases for study
  are arranged in eleven groups: Useful phrases; Significant phrases;
  Felicitous phrases; Impressive phrases; Prepositional phrases;
  Business phrases; Literary expressions; Striking similes;
  Conversational phrases; Public speaking phrases; Miscellaneous
  phrases. There is an introduction by Frank H. Vizetelly.

  “A book of practical usefulness for the student, the writer and the
  public speaker.”

       + =Cath World= 106:414 D ‘17 50w

  “Has great helpfulness for whoever is willing to use it according to
  Mr Kleiser’s plan.”

       + =Lit D= 56:46 F 9 ‘18 90w

         =N Y Times= 22:542 D 9 ‘17 70w

  “While some of these selections seem ‘thwarted by fortune,’ one’s
  criticism must be ‘tempered by charity,’ and there is no doubt that a
  systematic study of these pages would greatly improve a deficient
  vocabulary.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:577 D 5 ‘17 80w


=KLEISER, GRENVILLE.=[2] How to build mental power. il *$3 Funk 374
17-27883

  A practical, constructive aid to mind-development. Each chapter
  constitutes a lesson. In order, one is taught how to develop
  concentration, a stock of ideas, orderliness of mind, power and use of
  words, clear thinking, intellectual force, habit of analysis, sound
  opinions, the use of the will, imagination and feeling, a retentive
  memory, conscience, power of intuition, breadth of mind and
  spirituality. The whole subject of mental culture is presented in a
  clear, simple manner that can be readily followed by an intelligent
  student at odd moments.


=KLEISER, GRENVILLE.= Talks on talking. *75c Funk 808.5 16-19827

  “Both private and public speech are covered by these ‘Talks’ of Mr
  Kleiser. ... They refer to Talkers and talking, give Phrases for
  talkers, consider Talking in salesmanship, How to tell a story, How to
  speak in public, The dramatic element, Care of the throat, etc. It is
  worth while for every one to realize the value of an attractive voice,
  to avoid mannerisms, and to be natural, spontaneous, charming, to the
  largest possible degree. Mr Kleiser’s pages will help.”—Lit D

  “Suggestive but not exhaustive.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:161 Ja ‘17

         =Cleveland= p145 D ‘16 30w

  “A new book on an old art, which can be taken in hand and read through
  in an hour or so, while the suggestions, if well remembered, may last
  a lifetime.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1274 Ap 28 ‘17 90w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:171 N ‘16

       + =R of Rs= 54:685 D ‘16 50w

  “The author was formerly instructor in public speaking at Yale
  divinity school.”

         =St Louis= 15:10 Ja ‘17 12w

         =Spec= 118:340 Mr 17 ‘17 300w


=KLICKMANN, FLORA (MRS E. HENDERSON-SMITH)=, ed. Beautiful crochet on
household linen. (Home art ser.) il *75c Stokes 746 17-26258

  A companion volume to a work on knitting, showing how table cloths,
  curtain tops, towel ends, sideboard cloths, tea cosies, dressing table
  runners, and other items may be finished with crochet. The author says
  that special features of the book are suggestions for finishing cloths
  with a straight edge, and designs showing natural flowers in filet
  crochet.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:297 Ap ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p114 S ‘17 10w

  “Some of the patterns are effective, but we wish that the designers
  could find inspiration in conventional renaissance work, instead of
  trying to adapt the forms of natural flowers to such an unsuitable
  medium as flat crochet.”

       + =Spec= 116:635 My 20 ‘16 150w


=KLICKMANN, FLORA (MRS E. HENDERSONSMITH).= Flower-patch among the
hills. il *$1.50 (4c) Stokes 828 17-26323

  Flora Klickmann is editor of The Girl’s Own Paper and Woman’s
  Magazine, an English publication, and author of a number of books on
  domestic art. In this volume she writes of a summer spent in an old
  English cottage in the hills overlooking the Wye. The book recalls
  “The garden of a commuter’s wife” and others of the kind in which
  amusing personal experiences, out-of-door descriptions and neighborly
  gossip are mingled.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:355 My ‘17

  “She has much that is quaint and amusing and picturesque to place
  before the reader of her narrative.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 7 ‘17 140w

  “Will appeal to those in whom the love of gardens is an instinct. ...
  She writes best of what she loves best, and flowers rather than
  humanity are her happiest inspiration.”

       + =Dial= 62:152 F 22 ‘17 100w

       + =Spec= 116:726 Je 10 ‘16 60w


=KLINE, BURTON.= End of the flight. *$1.50 (1c) Lane 17-11708

  Mrs Branstane, as unpleasant a woman as one could find in fiction or
  out of it, is named by her creator “one of the causeless
  catastrophes.” The scene of the story is Rossacre, typical of the
  smaller American cities. Rossacre boasts its social set and its social
  season. Of the former the Gaylands are the leaders, and it is in the
  Gayland home that Mrs Branstane occupies the modest position of
  housekeeper. But there is something sinister in her presence in the
  house and in her hold over Judge Gayland. He is the first of her
  victims. Others follow till she meets her match in Andrew Penning.
  Penning, who in time becomes judge in Gayland’s place, is in love with
  Annabel, Gayland’s daughter, and it is in her jealousy of the girl
  that Mrs Branstane oversteps herself and accomplishes her own ruin.

  “Primarily a novel of character, of clashing temperaments and wills.
  Yet its best achievement and the highest promise it contains of the
  author’s future as a novelist—next, perhaps, to his unmistakable
  felicity of word and phrase—is his willingness to array his story in a
  healthy provincialism of scene and feeling, and his considerable
  ability to make his reader see that scene and share that feeling. In
  clarity of delineation of character and in sustained and unified
  effectiveness of its story of character clashing with character, this
  novel may leave something to be desired.” F. I.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 14 ‘17 1250w

  “The characters do not live, and the temptation to much skipping is
  irresistible. The book is better written than many which take a more
  compelling grasp of their readers.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:226 Je 10 ‘17 160w

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 430w


=KNIGHT, AUSTIN MELVIN.= Modern seamanship. 7th ed rev and enl il *$6.50
(2½c) Van Nostrand 656 17-11225

  This work by Rear-Admiral Knight, first published in 1901, now appears
  in a seventh edition. A note says, “The present edition is designed to
  bring the work up to date as completely as possible. To this end, a
  large amount of new material has been added, much that was obsolete
  has been cut out, and about one-third of the remainder has been
  extensively revised or entirely rewritten.” The new edition is
  illustrated with 159 plates.

       + =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 10w


=KNIPE, EMILIE (BENSON) (MRS ALDEN ARTHUR KNIPE), and KNIPE, ALDEN
ARTHUR.= Lost little lady. il *$1.35 (2c) Century 17-25247

  The scene of this story for young people is laid in New York at the
  time of the draft riots In 1863. Nora O’Neil rescues a strange little
  girl, somewhat younger than herself, from the mob. Nora is warm
  hearted and impetuous, and the great wealth which has come to her
  father and herself quite suddenly has not spoiled her. The opportunity
  to mother this little stranger is a golden one to lonely Nora and she
  hopes fervently that the child’s people will never be found. Her wish
  seems in a fair way to be gratified, for Bébée refuses to disclose
  anything about herself. The two girls become devotedly fond of one
  another, and, happily, the final solution of the mystery surrounding
  Bébée does not separate them.

  “An entertaining tale.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:64 N ‘17

  “Dr and Mrs Knipe have a literary style which places their books far
  above the range of average juvenile literature.”

       + =Lit D= 55:54 D 8 ‘17 70w

  “There is plenty of both plot and incident.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:389 O 7 ‘17 50w


=KNIPE, EMILIE (BENSON) (MRS ALDEN ARTHUR KNIPE), and KNIPE, ALDEN
ARTHUR.= Maid of old Manhattan. il *$1.25 (1½c) Macmillan 17-24856

  A story of New Amsterdam under the rule of Peter Stuyvesant. Annetje,
  the maid of old Manhattan, had spent her early childhood with the
  Indians. She knows that they had loved and treasured her highly, for
  even after they have sent her to live with the white people, their
  protective watch over her continues. Of her parentage she knows
  nothing, but she has sometimes been made to feel that she is not Dutch
  like her companions. Twice it is given Annetje to warn the governor of
  impending danger. The first time, when an Indian attack threatens, she
  intercedes with her red friends and the town is saved. The second time
  her warning is not heeded. The English ships come and New Amsterdam
  becomes New York. But the ships bring to Annetje the secret of her
  birth, and Peter Stuyvesant, no longer the governor, sanctions his son
  Balthazar’s choice of a wife.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:173 F ‘18

         =Ind= 92:260 N 3 ‘17 30w

       + =Lit D= 55:54 D 8 ‘17 80w

  “This is a novel whose simplicity and direct methods are its greatest
  charm. There is enough excitement to hold the reader’s attention, and
  enough of historical setting to give the simple story dignity. It is a
  wholesome and pleasing story.”

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 29 ‘17 60w

  “I think children from ten on will like it better than I do, because I
  tried it on them, and they voted it ‘great.’ And they will get a
  glimpse of old Manhattan at the time the British took it over, learn
  what they ate and what they wore, and some Dutch words, interesting
  because quite mysterious.” Maud Thompson

       + =N Y Call= p15 N 11 ‘17 270w

  “A story with history, action, and interesting characters, well
  adapted as a gift for girls.”

       + =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 15w


=KOBBÉ, GUSTAV.= All-of-a-sudden Carmen. il *$1.35 (3½c) Putnam 17-13315

  The Metropolitan opera house is the scene of this story, and a little
  waif, left at the stage door, is the heroine. It is Yudels, the
  doorkeeper who, having picked her up, becomes her official father; but
  all of the company, from the prima donna down, help to mother her. She
  grows up amid the stage scenery. Stage properties are her playthings
  and she picks up the music of the operas as readily as she does the
  four languages spoken by the singers. Her favorite is always Carmen,
  the opera that was sung on the night of her arrival, and it is in
  Carmen that she makes her own first appearance on the stage.

  “It is a pretty little story, light and improbable, but interesting.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:35 Ag 18 ‘17 140w

  “The very slight plot is merely a thread on which to hang a detailed
  description of the world behind the scenes at the Metropolitan opera
  house, and of much of the mechanical ingenuity which goes to the
  production of grand opera. Singers whom all New York once flocked to
  hear are easily recognizable through the very thin disguises with
  which the author has cloaked them.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:195 My 20 ‘17 370w

  “Famous opera stars of a generation ago cross the background of
  ‘All-of-a-sudden Carmen.’ ... It is a light story with a pleasant
  strain of sentimentality.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 210w


=KOBER, GEORGE MARTIN, and HANSON, WILLIAM CLINTON=, eds. Diseases of
occupation and vocational hygiene. il *$8 Blakiston 613.6 16-16701

  “A collection of studies each by an expert in the particular
  subject. ... The essays are in three main groups. Part one discusses
  specific and systemic diseases of occupation; part two discusses first
  the cause and means of preventing occupational diseases, then the
  various occupations in which exposure to injurious conditions is
  involved. In part three there is a description of the unique Milan
  clinic for occupational diseases; then a discussion of statistics,
  their uses and their fallacies; and last, chapters that contain the
  latest study of legislation for the prevention of occupational
  disease; on the ‘rationale’ of making such diseases notifiable and
  including them in the records of vital statistics; on women’s and
  children’s work; and on administrative power and methods.”—Survey

         =American Industries= p43 Mr ‘17

  “Although the respective articles have been written by a large number
  of men, it is exceedingly gratifying to note the general tone of
  conservatism displayed throughout, especially in the medical
  discussions.” P. N: Leech

       + =Am J Soc= 23:265 S ‘17 400w

  “It is a storehouse of knowledge and will be immensely useful to the
  teacher of economics and sociology, to the business man, and to
  insurance officials, as well as to those in charge of public health
  work or the care of the sick. It deserves a place in every college or
  public library.” Carl Kelsey

     + + =Ann Am Acad= 70:331 Mr ‘17 250w

     + + =Dial= 62:151 P 22 ‘17 450w

  “Intelligent citizens who may wish to obtain light upon the subject
  will find in this book a great abundance of information.”

       + =Nation= 104:635 My 24 ‘17 250w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:155 O ‘16

  “With editors and contributors of such caliber, the treatise produced
  is necessarily almost complete and authoritative. ... I believe one of
  the most important articles in the book is that written by Frederick
  S. Lee, professor of physiology at Columbia university. It is entitled
  ‘Fatigue and occupation,’ and in a scientific and dispassionate way
  endeavors to prove the close relationship of fatigue to occupation ...
  and specifically of the effect of the length of the working day upon
  the health of the workers.” G: M. Price, M.D.

       + =N Y Call= p14 N 26 ‘16 800w

  “The book is a valuable asset to industrial medical literature. The
  eminence of its collaborators ... is an indication of its
  authoritativeness and its classic character. Its range of subjects and
  the exhaustive references to the original sources at the end of each
  chapter make it invaluable as a reference work. While not the first
  American treatise upon the subject, it is the most comprehensive.” T.
  G. Miller

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p20 Ja ‘17 200w (Reprinted from Journal
         of the Franklin Institute D ‘16)

  “A valuable asset to industrial medical literature. ... While not the
  first American treatise upon the subject it is the most
  comprehensive.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:42 Ja ‘17 50w (Reprinted from the Journal of
         the Franklin Institute, 1916)

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:339 Ap ‘17 100w

  “The numerous bibliographies are valuable”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:418 My ‘17 60w

  “Dr T. M. Legge’s section on arsenic poisoning is the best brief
  treatment of this subject known to the reviewer. ... The most serious
  problems of industrial life are accidents and tuberculosis, the
  industrial poisonings (except plumbism) being by comparison relatively
  unimportant. Accidents presumably fall outside the scope of this work
  but certainly industrial tuberculosis does not; yet dust removal and
  factory ventilation are scantily treated, while pages are devoted to
  rare intoxications, of interest only as medical curiosities. ...
  ‘Diseases of occupation and vocational hygiene’ contains much material
  which will make it a valuable reference book for the specialist, but
  it is not likely to supplant either of the two earlier works [W.
  Gilman Thompson, ‘Occupational diseases,’ G. M. Price, ‘Modern
  factory’] each of which so well fills its special field.” C. E. A.
  Winslow

 *     + =Science= n s 45:260 Mr 16 ‘17 650w

  “Basic data are presented with a simplicity, clearness, fulness and
  interest that at first conceal the magnitude of the completed task.
  The editors have appreciated the value of mechanical aids, such as
  heavy-faced type for headings, numbered divisions, paragraphs of
  moderate length and a good index.” G. S.

       + =Survey= 37:467 Ja 20 ‘17 450w


=KOCH, THEODORE WESLEY.= Book of Carnegie libraries. il *$3.50 (4c)
Wilson, H. W. 022 17-27889

  In 1907 Mr Koch, of the Library of Congress, issued a portfolio of
  pictures and plans of typical or notable Carnegie library buildings.
  This collection of plates is now reissued, together with an
  explanatory text, which the original work lacked. The book has an
  introduction by R. R. Bowker of the Publishers’ Weekly. In addition,
  there is a character sketch of Andrew Carnegie by Hamilton W. Mabie,
  reprinted from the Century, and a paper on Carnegie libraries and good
  reading, by Arthur E. Bostwick, of the St Louis public library. Mr
  Koch’s text consists of chapters on: Method of giving; Documents
  relating to the establishment of the New York city branches; The
  architecture of the Manhattan branches; Reaching the people; The
  Brooklyn branches; Eastern libraries; The public library of the
  District of Columbia; The South; Pittsburg; Ohio and Michigan;
  Wisconsin and the Middle West; Iowa and the farther West; The
  southwest and the Rocky mountain region; California; Library planning.
  Index to text, Index to plates, and List of plates follow.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:148 F ‘18

         =N Y Times= 23:32 Ja 27 ‘18 50w


=KOEBEL, WILLIAM HENRY.= British exploits in South America; a history of
British activities in exploration, military adventure, diplomacy,
science, and trade, in Latin-America. il *$4 (2½c) Century 980 17-14549

  Mr Koebel, who has acted as special commissioner for South America for
  the London Sphere and Standard and has served as editor-in-chief of
  the “Encyclopedia of South America,” has written a number of books on
  the various South American states. “His ‘British exploits in South
  America’ covers a period of more than three hundred years. It opens
  with a picturesque account of the old English navigators and
  buccaneers who sailed the Spanish Main, and goes on to describe
  successively the work of the English and Irish Jesuits in the Spanish
  colonies, the British voyages of exploration in the eighteenth
  century, the development of British Guiana and the Falkland Islands,
  the exploits of the British in Brazil, the part taken by Englishmen in
  the wars of independence, the early relations of the English with the
  new republics, and the deeds of innumerable adventurous British
  travellers, traders, naturalists, and soldiers of fortune.” (Dial)
  Three aspects of British operations are emphasized: the large part
  played by capital, the exceptional ease with which the Englishmen took
  root in South America, and the fact that “almost all of the British
  achievements in South America have been the work of free lances.” The
  final chapter, “Today and tomorrow in South America,” is devoted
  mainly to a discussion of the commercial situation and outlook.
  Appended is a fifteen-page “Bibliography of modern works from 1870.”

  “For the most part the present work is a compilation of extracts
  culled from contemporary accounts by British writers and pieced
  together into a somewhat disjointed narrative. The book is provided
  with illustrations more or less apt in reference and plan of
  insertion. The bibliography of works issued [since 1870] is not
  characterized by either accuracy or exhaustiveness, and lacks any sort
  of evaluation. That the works by Dawson and Scruggs should be
  mentioned twice, that Bourne’s treatise, along with numerous others of
  merit, is ignored, that the authorship of Helps’s volumes is ascribed
  to Oppenheim, and that a reprint of Humboldt’s account should be put
  down as a recent contribution, are defects not remedied by the
  inclusion of substantially all of Mr Koebel’s own books. Were Mr
  Koebel as familiar with the Spanish language and records as he is with
  those he actually uses, he would not have allowed so many errors and
  omissions to mar his pages.” W: R. Shepherd

       — =Am Hist R= 23:200 O ‘17 550w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:92 D ‘17

  “This is the book of an author full of his subject and evidently forms
  the result of many years of note-taking and much general and special
  reading. It is a permanent contribution not only to South American
  literature, but is also a noteworthy addition to the shelves of
  general romance and adventure.” T: Walsh

       + =Bookm= 46:606 Ja ‘18 170w

  “A series of portrait sketches drawn with such surety and finesse that
  in the brief space allotted to each, the personalities of the most
  famous of the British soldiers of fortune stand out with extraordinary
  vividness. ... In the concluding chapter, after having studied the
  ‘bright side’ of British trade in South America, the author, with an
  equal candor, examines the reasons for its decline, during the past
  few years. And they are those we of the United States should also
  heed.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 9 ‘17 680w

  “Mr W. H. Koebel—who, notwithstanding his German-sounding name, is a
  thoroughgoing Englishman ... speaks with authority on all matters
  pertaining to the contact of Europeans with Latin American resources,
  governments, and peoples. ... He gives evidence of an easy command of
  rich resources of memoirs, diaries, correspondence, and old books of
  travel and history: he has a keen sense of character, and his chapters
  make interesting reading.” F: A. Ogg

       + =Dial= 63:57 Jl 19 ‘17 1100w

  “Since the author perforce must introduce ‘true blue’ British sea-dogs
  and buccaneers, one feels he has achieved a triumph in divesting them
  of the slightest suspicion of rum, and never exploding on his pages an
  improper swear word.”

         =Ind= 91:134 Jl 28 ‘17 490w

         =Lit D= 55:43 N 17 ‘17 410w

  “The author has an irritating habit of peppering his page with
  irrelevant marks of exclamation. He lapses at times into rank
  journalese. But all deductions made, Mr Koebel has brought together a
  great deal of widely scattered information on South America and
  presented it in a popular and readable fashion.”

     + — =Nation= 105:512 N 8 ‘17 1250w

  “While much of the matter in Mr Koebel’s book will not be new to those
  who have been sufficiently interested in South America to read its
  history, there is a freshness in the author’s literary style that
  makes a relation of an old, or even threadbare, fact peculiarly his
  own. He is a born story-teller.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:312 Ag 26 ‘17 700w

  “The recent, somewhat unsatisfactory position of British commerce in
  those countries as contrasted with the rapid advance made by Germany
  before the war is frankly discussed in this volume.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:215 Ag ‘17 140w


=KOEBEL, WILLIAM HENRY.= Paraguay. (South American ser.) il *$3.50
Scribner 918.9 (Eng ed 17-26318)

  In addition to other books on individual South American countries, Mr
  Koebel has written a work on “South America,” published in 1913, and
  one on “The South Americans,” published in 1915. “He tells something
  of the romantic history of this smallest and least accessible of the
  South American republics. ... He describes the physical
  characteristics, the cities, the country in general, the people and
  their life, and devotes much attention to the resources and to the
  trade in cattle, timber, fruits, cereals.” (N Y Times)

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:350 My ‘17

  “A verbose account of the land it describes in which one looks in vain
  for any real interpretation of the country. The book is largely a
  presentation of facts, more or less interesting. About two-thirds of
  the whole is history; the remaining third consists of chapters on
  various topics.” G. B. Roorbach

     – + =Ann Am Acad= 73:232 S ‘17 190w

  “Especially valuable and interesting for its detailed account of
  present-day conditions, a work for which the author is well fitted, as
  he has shown by several previous volumes in this series. ... The book
  is, indeed, a storehouse of all those up-to-date data desired by
  intending tourist or business man, or by the stay-at-home seeker after
  information.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:101 Mr 25 ‘17 180w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:424 My ‘17 20w

         =Pratt= p42 Jl ‘17 30w

       + =R of Rs= 55:555 My ‘17 80w

       + =Spec= 118:392 Mr 31 ‘17 200w

  “Mr Koebel gives a really admirable description of the early history
  of the colony. ... One of the best chapters is the eighth, on ‘The
  Jesuit mission establishments.’ Mr Koebel treats the subject fairly
  and impartially. ... A highly prosperous future, if internal stability
  be maintained, almost certainly lies before this inland republic, but
  it is a prosperity of promise. Mr Koebel, drawing his information from
  official sources, undoubtedly paints a picture too roseate.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p77 F 15 ‘17 2050w


=KOHLER, MAX JAMES, and WOLF, SIMON.= Jewish disabilities in the Balkan
states. $1.50 Am. Jewish hist. soc. 17-7956

  “This paper, amplified from the form of its original reading before
  the society and fortified by voluminous foot-notes, is valuable
  chiefly because of its compact summary of the legislation now existing
  in Rumania to the detriment of the Jewish population of that country;
  and, in consequence, thus formulating the terms of the problem which
  will arise when the present war in Europe is ended. ... The
  contributions of the United States to this problem have been almost
  continuous, beginning a full half-century ago with Mr Seward’s note to
  Turkey. ... All of these efforts, however, as Mr Kohler shows, were
  instigated by one or another of the organizations designed to further
  the political and other progress of the Jewish race; but it is none
  the less to the credit of American statesmen that the spirit of our
  diplomacy so readily and generously responded to the appeal.”—Am Hist
  R

  “Mr Kohler has marshalled a line of impressive precedents which point
  the way for American influence to make itself felt beneficently.” G:
  H. Moses

       + =Am Hist R= 22:708 Ap ‘17 400w

         =Cleveland= p106 S ‘17 50w

  “This volume constitutes one of the most important and valuable issues
  in the series of ‘Publications’ of this active society. ... Mr Kohler,
  the one author, is a prominent attorney and writer on historical and
  sociological topics of this city, Mr Wolf, the other collaborator, is
  the venerable champion of Jewish rights at Washington; for more than
  fifty years he has acted in support of the civil and religious rights
  of his brethren-in-faith at the national capital. ... The book is well
  printed, furnished with a comprehensive index, and conveniently
  bound.”

       + =N Y Times= 21:434 O 15 ‘16 700w

  “Though primarily intended as a contribution to the literature on
  Jewish history and not written in a form which will attract the
  general reader, the present volume is likely to help in formulating
  the policy of this country concerning European reconstruction after
  the present war. Its scholarship and authority give it unusual weight
  as a brief for American intervention on behalf of the oppressed Jews
  in Rumania and other Balkan states.” Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 37:438 Ja 13 ‘17 600w


=KORNILOV, ALEKSANDER.= Modern Russian history; being an authoritative
and detailed history of Russia from the age of Catherine the Great to
the present. 2v maps *$5 Knopf 947 17-8743

  “The material chiefly employed in this book by a Russian professor was
  originally used in his lecture courses at the Politecnicum of Peter
  the Great in Petrograd within the past two years. It embraces a sketch
  of Russia’s development as state and people down to the year 1866. The
  author does not attempt to trace the development of the various
  Russian nationalities, but aims to expand the history of the Russian
  people. It is not with Russia’s external history that he deals, but
  with its social, cultural and inner history. ... The study closes with
  the year 1890. But in a supplementary section, Mr Alexander S. Kaun,
  the translator, writes some complementary chapters, although he
  disclaims all thought of directly continuing M. Kornilov’s
  work.”—Boston Transcript

  “Here is an excellent book on a subject about which there is little
  good literature in English, and it is made almost unreadable for us by
  the incompetence of the translator. The title is misleading. It
  promises a general history of Russia, but the work is almost confined
  to Russian institutions and political development in the last century
  and a half. Foreign relations and wars and expansion of territory are
  touched upon only in a casual and rather slipshod manner, and there
  are several errors in statement. Economic development comes out a
  little better, but not much, and there is nothing about such things as
  the progress of science, literature, or art. On its real topic the
  book is valuable. Being composed for Russians, it presupposes a
  certain knowledge of Russian history on the part of its readers. In
  short, Professor Kornilov’s work is a scholarly, judicious compendium
  of an important subject, but it is not likely to prove attractive to
  many American readers. The transliteration of Russian words is in the
  main good.” A. C. Coolidge

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:148 O ‘17 650w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:444 Jl ‘17

  “It is likely to contribute to the knowledge and understanding of
  Russia more than any other single work which has appeared in English
  in late years.” Abraham Yarmolinsky

       + =Bookm= 45:320 My ‘17 1000w

  “Mr Kaun’s addition is pertinent and readable. He does not enter into
  a discussion of the causes of the present war, but he aims to show the
  prevailing attitude of the Russian intelligentzia towards it.” H. S.
  K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 31 ‘17 400w

  “Admirably written and reliable. The print of the two volumes is too
  fine for the comfort of the reader.”

     + — =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 90w

  “An outstanding work. Taking as its basis the best studies of Russian
  social and political development,—Kluchevsky’s ‘Survey of Russian
  history,’ and Miliukov’s ‘History of Russian culture,’—it is a lucid,
  dispassionate, discreetly documented and thoroughly reliable survey of
  the history of Russia in the nineteenth century.” L: S. Friedland

       + =Dial= 62:429 My 17 ‘17 980w

  “It is a book for the student, not heavy, but with no particular
  attempt to attract the casual reader. The full index makes it
  excellent for reference.”

       + =Ind= 91:31 Jl 7 ‘17 150w

  “The author is radical-liberal in his attitude. Nowhere in English, so
  far as we know, can one find so clear, simple, and yet somewhat
  philosophic an account of the growth of liberalism and democracy in
  the great Slav empire. Professor Kornilov is one of the first to
  interpret adequately the influence of the Russian publicists and the
  Russian newspaper press in the formation of parties and policies. He
  has also a fairly good ethnological account of the various tribes and
  nationalities which make up the Russian state and which have become
  more or less Russified. Unfortunately the extreme gaucherie of the
  translator has filled the pages with hideous Teutonisms and some
  almost unintelligible phrases.”

   + + — =Nation= 105:267 S 6 ‘17 400w

  “It is a relief to feel that one is at last in the presence of a
  socially-minded and conscientious historian, who is gifted with the
  ability to assemble and organize complex data, and endowed with the
  power to see events, institutions and human relations in
  perspective. ... I wish especially to call attention to our author’s
  lucid treatment of the peasant problem.” D: Rosenstein

       + =N Y Call= p15 Je 17 ‘17 1100w

  “The many tangled threads of Russian life and development are handled
  in a masterly way, making clear the growth of Russian liberalism
  through all its varied stages and manifestations. ... Professor
  Kornilov has the reputation of being a liberal, and therefore it is
  the more surprising to find his point of view entirely calm, cool, and
  detached. The hot heart of indignation does not beat in his literary
  breast, however much it may in his human frame. In that one respect
  his work seems somewhat defective, since it fails to give the reader
  an adequate idea in their true colors of Russian affairs and Russian
  life.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:103 Mr 25 ‘17 1000w

  “Naturally of a special interest to us to-day are the concluding
  chapters, which are packed with interesting information in regard to
  the various dumas, the zemstvos, the workmen’s movement, and the
  conduct of the war with Germany.”

       + =Outlook= 116:74 My 9 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:825 D ‘17 40w

  Reviewed by R. Staughton

         =Pub W= 91:1326 Ap 21 ‘17 250w

  “For the first time, we now have an authoritative history of Russia,
  from the time of Catherine the Great to the third year of the great
  war.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:552 My ‘17 220w

         =St Louis= 15:187 Je ‘17

  “Professor Kornilov’s ‘Modern Russian history’ is an excellent book,
  and it ought to have an enormous circulation in America. Based on
  lectures to students, it is written in a clear, luminous style. This
  history, more than any other book I have read, enables one to
  understand the Russian revolution of the year 1917, and its prodigious
  importance. The concluding pages of the book, written by Mr Kaun,
  intentionally forsake the calm historical manner of Professor
  Kornilov.” W: L. Phelps

       + =Yale R= n s 7:186 O ‘17 450w


=KREHBIEL, HENRY EDWARD.= Second book of operas; their histories, their
plots and their music. il *$2 (3½c) Macmillan 782 17-7943

  This book, devoted to some of the more recent developments in operatic
  music, supplements the author’s earlier “Book of operas.” Contents:
  Biblical operas; Bible stories in opera and oratorio; Rubinstein and
  his “Geistliche oper”; “Samson et Dalila”; “Die königin von Saba”;
  “Hérodiade”; “Lakmé”; “Pagliacci”; “Cavalleria rusticana”; The career
  of Mascagni; “Iris”: “Madama Butterfly”; “Der rosenkavalier”;
  “Königskinder”; “Boris Godounoff”; “Madame Sans-Gêne” and other operas
  by Giordano; Two operas by Wolf-Ferrari.

  “Well written, authoritative, and has critical value.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:339 My ‘17

  “For the musician and student of music rather than for the average
  opera-goer.”

       + =Cleveland= p114 S ‘17 90w

  “As in his earlier work, the free expression of his own preferences
  and aversions contributes to the enjoyment of the book. Portraits of
  composers and performers abound, and there are a few facsimiles of
  autograph scores.”

       + =Dial= 63:72 Jl 19 ‘17 200w

  “Mr Krehbiel writes with learning and authority, but without pedantry,
  and in an easy and pleasant style. It must be added that at times his
  prejudices sit heavy upon him.”

     + — =Ind= 92:384 N 24 ‘17 180w

       + =Lit D= 54:1274 Ap 28 ‘17 120w

  “One of the most refreshing things in this book is the enthusiasm for
  Humperdinck’s ‘Koenigskinder.’ Of particular interest also are the
  pages on Puccini’s ‘Madama Butterfly,’ in which the Japanese factors
  that enter into the texture of the score are made evident.” H: T.
  Finck

       + =Nation= 105:545 N 15 ‘17 380w

         =St Louis= 15:177 Je ‘17 20w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 19 ‘17 280w


=KROEGER, ALICE BERTHA.= Guide to the study and use of reference books;
3d ed., rev. throughout and much enl. by Isadore Gilbert Mudge. $2.50 A.
L. A. 028.7 17-23822

  “The third edition of the guide is based, in the main, upon the second
  edition, 1908, and the two supplements for 1909-10 and 1911-13, but
  the many changes in reference books and developments in reference work
  and teaching since 1908 have necessitated many changes from the
  earlier edition. The general plan and arrangement of the second
  edition have been followed and Miss Kroeger’s introduction has been
  kept intact except that one section, ‘How to study reference books,’
  has been made slightly more detailed. The lists of reference books,
  however, have been changed very materially and the annotations have
  been rewritten and much extended, so that this latter feature of the
  guide is practically new throughout, only a few annotations having
  been carried over from the second edition, although somewhat more have
  been retained from the two supplements. Aside from the new annotation,
  the revision of the lists of reference books has consisted principally
  of (1) excision of older titles and editions now superseded by more
  recent material, (2) addition of new titles including not only the
  recent books listed in the two supplements and later titles through
  1916, but also a very considerable number of earlier titles,
  principally foreign or more special works not hitherto included in the
  guide, and (3) the addition of some entirely new lists, such as those
  on Constitutions, International law, Romances, Historical source
  books, English public documents, etc. ... In general, information
  included goes through 1916, and does not cover changes, additions,
  etc., for 1917.” (Preface) Miss Mudge is reference librarian of
  Columbia university.

  “A new edition of the guide, which is everywhere recognized as the
  foremost ‘guide to reference books,’ has been demanded by librarians
  in all parts of the country for the past five years, and the A. L. A.
  publishing board have been fortunate in securing for this important
  work the services of Miss Mudge, than whom there is no better judgment
  on the subject of reference books anywhere in the country. ...
  Absolutely necessary for all libraries making any pretensions at doing
  reference work, and recommended for purchase for all libraries having
  5,000 volumes or more.”

       + =A L A Bkl= O ‘16

  “The new guide lists over one and a half times as many titles as the
  old edition and the notes are much more critical and minutely
  descriptive.” M. E. H.

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:243 O ‘17 210w


=KROPOTKIN, PETR ALEKSIEEVICH, kniaz.= Mutual aid: a factor in
evolution. *$1.25 Knopf 301 A17-1635

  A reprint of a work published in 1902. “At the beginning of the war in
  1914, Prince Kropotkin determined to prepare a reprint of his ‘Mutual
  aid.’ He put it forth as evidence of his belief that the constructive
  forces of men are at work in spite of the destructive influences of
  the war, and that these will lead to a better understanding between
  men and eventually among the nations. In his discussion of the subject
  of mutual aid, he begins with the evidence of it to be found in
  animals, and he then proceeds by evolutionary stages through its
  aspects as found in the social lives of savages and barbarians, in the
  mediæval city, to its culmination in the modern state and community.”
  (Boston Transcript)

  “As we read these pages it seems impossible that a man capable of such
  argument and discussion should have been imprisoned behind stone walls
  as a danger to his country. It was, however, not his country, but its
  autocrats that feared him and kept him in an exile that is now ended.
  Prince Kropotkin is at last free to return to Russia and to take part
  in the government that by his voice and his work he has succeeded in
  establishing.” E. P. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 11 ‘17 700w

         =Dial= 64:32 Ja 3 ‘18 160w

  “Those who are old enough to read, and to think seriously, should read
  this book. Those who are old enough to have read it already, should
  read it again.” B: C. Gruenberg

       + =N Y Call= p15 Je 3 ‘17 670w

       + =R of Rs= 55:553 My ‘17 160w

  “This sociological study of Prince Kropotkin’s, so full of the
  generosity and humaneness of the Russian temperament at its best, is
  in many ways valuable for its instruction, and will be found not
  lacking in inspiring qualities even by those who think it unduly
  neglectful of the egoistic instincts and who regard its conception of
  progress as one-sided; though, of course, the author might reply that
  individual achievement, such as Plimsoll represented, or Lord
  Shaftesbury, may be gained by the dedication of exceptional powers to
  the common good.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 15 ‘17 680w


=KRYSHANOVSKAYA, V. I.= Torch-bearers of Bohemia; tr. from the Russian
by Juliet M. Soskice. *$1.40 (1½c) McBride 17-11467

  This book by a modern Russian woman tells a story of medieval Bohemia.
  The time of the story spans the last years of John Hus, from 1401 to
  1415. John Hus and Jerome of Prague are two dominant figures in the
  story, altho its plot is built about the figure of Rugena, a young
  girl betrothed from childhood to Count Vok of Waldstein. This
  betrothal is brought about by Bishop Brancaccio, in whom the
  corruption of the church of the time is exposed at its lowest depths.
  By lying and forgery he represents the marriage as the will of the
  girl’s father, whom he has murdered. The two reformers, Hus and
  Jerome, both play a part in the girl’s later history.

  “The novel certainly deserves recognition, if only for the fact that
  it is perhaps the only work of fiction dealing with the period of John
  Hus. It has the romantic fascination of the past, and the English
  reader will find a familiar atmosphere in the book, owing to the
  excellent translation which has preserved the peculiarities of the
  epoch through a masterly use of old English and of the traditional
  methods of Scott and Reade. The author has been true to historical
  facts.”

       + =Nation= 104:686 Je 7 ‘17 170w

  “‘The torchbearers of Bohemia’ differs from the novels of Henryk
  Sienkiewicz only by greater condensation, a kinship that may be a
  distinction, but which fails to satisfy those whom modern Russian
  literature has trained to expect less of a surface treatment. ...
  Considered solely as a conventional historical novel, the book is
  vivid enough.”

       + =New Repub= 10:sup22 Ap 21 ‘17 170w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:87 Je ‘17

  “The author has made the theme of this book a round denunciation of
  everything German in the great days of Hus. ... Miss (or Mme)
  Kryshanovskaya has done a tremendous amount of historical reading for
  the artistic and historical touches that lend an air of verisimilitude
  to an otherwise bald and unconvincing narrative.” W. M. F.

       — =N Y Call= p14 Jl 22 ‘17 300w

  “In the light of the present situation in Russia, it is peculiarly
  interesting to note the fire and sympathy with which the struggle for
  national and religious liberty in Bohemia is depicted by a Russian
  writer. The splendid personality of John Hus dominates the volume, and
  gives us an illuminating portrait of that great martyr.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:102 Mr 25 ‘17 380w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p526 N 2 ‘16 40w


=KUELLER, JO VAN AMMERS.= Young lion of Flanders; a tale of the terror
of war; tr. by C. Thieme. il $1.50 Stokes (Eng ed 17-10166)

  “The book tells what happened to a peaceful, well-to-do Belgian
  family, one of the daughters of which had married a German. The
  principal character, the ‘Young lion of Flanders’ himself, is
  sixteen-year-old Léon Casimir. An expert motor cyclist, he becomes a
  dispatch rider in the Belgian army, and distinguishes himself at
  Marbeke, winning the approbation of the hero-king, Albert of Belgium.
  He has more than one narrow escape from death, and is very nearly shot
  with a number of other prisoners.”—N Y Times

  “It is told as much by suggestion as by direct description. For
  appalling as is its revelation of German ‘frightfulness’ and perfidy,
  it is remarkably restrained.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 440w

  “It is not exclusively juvenile readers who will be held by this
  stirring story, of which the translation is exceptionally fluent and
  satisfactory.”

       + =Cath World= 106:548 Ja ‘18 310w

  “Léon’s adventures will thrill young readers, but the sad and bitter
  tone of the book puts it into the adult class.”

       + =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 70w

  “The story, the author tells us, was written that her own children
  might learn thru reading it the horror and futility of war. It seems
  more probable that the prowess of the boy Leon, and his thrilling
  adventures would appeal to the heart of youth as glorious.”

       — =Ind= 92:260 N 3 ‘17 90w

  “It is all quite dreadful enough—unbelievably dreadful, we would have
  thought it a few years ago. But in the light of our present knowledge
  we are inclined to feel that in his evident effort not to overstate
  the author has rather understated his case.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:286 Ag 5 ‘17 400w

  “The four pictures by Raemaekers with which it is illustrated are even
  more illuminating than the text.”

       + =Spec= 117:660 N 25 ‘16 30w


=KUENZLI, FREDERICK ARNOLD.= Right and duty; or, Citizen and soldier;
Switzerland prepared and at peace a model for the United States. il $1
(2c) National defense inst., Tribune bldg., N.Y.; for sale by Stechert
355.7 16-25197

  The author, a native of Switzerland now living in the United States
  and acting as assistant appraiser at the port of New York, describes
  the Swiss system of military training and urges its adoption in
  America. The text of the military constitution of the Swiss federation
  is given at the close of the book. There is neither table of contents
  nor index.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:377 Je ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 4 ‘17 250w

         =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 10w

  “The preparedness discussion has brought out a number of articles and
  books expository of the Swiss military system, but this interesting
  volume is perhaps the most comprehensive and most illuminating of them
  all.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:34 F 4 ‘17 350w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Mr 22 ‘17 400w


=K’UNG YUAN KU’SUH.= Judgment of the Orient. *60c (6c) Dutton 940.91
17-10431

  “Some reflections on the great war made by a Chinese student and
  traveller, edited and rendered into colloquial English by Ambrose
  Pratt.” (Title-page) Brief observations as to the characteristics of
  the different peoples of Europe as they impressed him in his travels,
  are followed by the author’s discussion of the sex of nations. A
  nation, like a human being, has a soul, and the soul of the nation
  like that of the human being has sex. Germany has a female soul. He
  says, “The psychological genesis of the war between Germany and Europe
  is sexual. It is a war between the femininity of Germany and the
  masculinity of her neighbors—especially the masculinity of England.”

  “Here is food for thought for the wisest.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 4 ‘17 130w

  “The opinions recorded have a rapier-like penetration and cannot fail
  to be a source of satisfaction to those who have the cause of the
  Allies at heart.”

       + =Dial= 62:153 F 22 ‘17 180w

  “It is certainly an ungallant theory as regards woman. ... It is
  nevertheless an exceedingly curious and interesting speculation, and
  from the Chinese point of view, certainly does not lack arguments to
  support it.” J. W.

         =N Y Call= p15 Ap 8 ‘17 580w

         =N Y Times= 22:28 Ja 28 ‘17 480w

  “If, in the flood of foolish writing about the war, more nonsense has
  anywhere else been packed within the narrow limits of seventy-two
  small pages, it has not been the reviewer’s ill fortune to see the
  work.” H. R. M.

       — =Survey= 38:174 My 19 ‘17 180w


=KUNZ, GEORGE FREDERICK.= Rings for the finger. il *$6.50 (6½c)
Lippincott 391 17-7933

  Dr Kunz, author of “The curious lore of precious stones,” has prepared
  another valuable book drawing on his wide knowledge of jewels and
  ornaments. In this book he has treated of “Rings for the finger, from
  the earliest known times to the present, with full descriptions of the
  origin, early making, materials, the archæology, history, for
  affection, for love, for engagement, for wedding, commemorative,
  mourning, etc.” (Title-page) The titles of the chapters are: The
  origin, purposes and methods of ring wearing; Forms of rings and
  materials of which they are made; Signet rings; Some interesting rings
  of history; Betrothal (engagement) rings, wedding (nuptial) rings, and
  love tokens; The religious use of rings; Magic and talismanic rings;
  Rings of healing; Ring making. There are 290 illustrations, some in
  color.

       + =Cath World= 105:125 Ap ‘17 100w

       + =Dial= 62:152 F 22 ‘17 120w

  “In his registry of pretty ‘posies’ he revives delightfully a bit of
  seventeenth century sentimentality.”

       + =Ind= 90:37 Ap 2 ‘17 50w

  “No review could indicate all the information in this exhaustive study
  of rings.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 S 22 ‘17 250w

  “The illustrations to the book are, from the point of view of
  reproduction, of exceptionally high quality, but they appear to have
  been selected a little at random.”

     + — =Nature= 99:522 Ag 30 ‘17 950w

  “Will have permanent value as a reference book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:282 Jl 29 ‘17 500w

  “Contains bibliographical foot-notes.”

         =Pittsburgh= 22:215 Mr ‘17 3w

  “A veritable encyclopedia of fascinating lore. Reproductions of
  paintings of persons wearing rings are included in the 220
  illustrations in color, double-tone, and line.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:332 S ‘17 150w

  “The student and the collector will find the clear and well-arranged
  plates of great value, while other readers will look with interest at
  the reproductions of portraits showing the rings as they were actually
  worn by their owners.”

       + =Spec= 119:sup469 N 3 ‘17 1300w

  “Dr Kunz has the vantage point of the Metropolitan museum of New York,
  with which he is connected, as an initial source for his studies and
  his rank as an authority on this and kindred subjects is now
  established.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 10 ‘17 250w

  “Dr Kunz has drawn on the most diverse sources for his materials, and
  has brought together an extraordinary amount of curious learning. He
  has not, however, the gift of lucid order. ... If the reader tries to
  find a connected answer to any question that suggests itself, such as
  the development of the ring forms, he finds himself baffled by wealth
  of matter and insufficient method.”

     + – =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p294 Je 21 ‘17 1050w


=KUPRIN, ALEXANDER IVANOVICH.= Bracelet of garnets, and other stories;
with an introd. by W: Lyon Phelps. il *$1.35 (2c) Scribner 17-13619

  In his selection of stories for this volume, Leo Pasvolsky has had the
  advice of the author. In a letter from Mr Kuprin, eight of the stories
  here translated were named as among those he considered “most
  successful.” “There is wholeness about Kuprin as a writer, which
  breathes of the strength and power of Russia herself,” writes Mr
  Pasvolsky. This quality, he says, is brought out best in the longer
  stories, of which “The bracelet of garnets,” is one. Another side of
  Kuprin’s art is shown in the very short story, also represented in the
  volume. In addition to the title story the book contains: The
  horse-thieves; The Jewess; Anathema; The Læstrygonians; An insult; The
  park of kings; An evening guest; A legend; Demir-Kayá; The garden of
  the Holy Virgin. The translator is editor of the Russian Review.

         =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 70w

  “The book as a whole, however, while no less searching in its
  psychology and no less unsparing in its truth, than ‘The party’ and
  ‘The eternal husband,’ has an atmosphere of normality and restraint
  which make a stronger appeal to Anglo-Saxon minds.”

     + — =Ind= 93:151 Ja 26 ‘18 170w

  “This cheerful note rings through all Kuprin’s works, and places him
  quite apart from his pessimistic contemporaries—Andreyev, Sologub, and
  Artsibashev. But he falls far behind them as an artist; he lacks their
  intensity and reserve. The excellent translation of Mr Pasvolsky does
  not redeem the platitudinousness of the allegories placed in the end
  of the book.”

     + — =Nation= 105:374 O 4 ‘17 350w

  “Brilliant little studies in character or atmosphere, some compressed
  into half a dozen pages.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 7 ‘17 370w

  “Two volumes of collections of the short tales of one of the most
  eminent of living Russian novelists, Alexander Kuprin, have recently
  been translated, ‘A Slav soul’ and ‘The bracelet of garnets.’ Scarcely
  any duplication appears, although the biting satire, ‘Anathema,’ is
  seen in each volume. ‘The garden of the Holy Virgin,’ is a noble
  illustration of the poetic beauty of Kuprin’s style, when he deals
  with an exalted theme.” W: L. Phelps

       + =Yale R= n s 7:189 O ‘17 140w


=KUSER, JOHN DRYDEN.= Way to study birds. il *$1.25 Putnam 598.2
17-15688

  A small book for beginners in bird study, meant to serve as a guide to
  the identification of the more common species. It is adapted to the
  vicinity of New York city. Part 1, Prerequisites, has chapters on:
  Method of study; Twelve abundant permanent residents; Note-keeping;
  How to use a key and learn five songs. Part 2 is devoted to the birds
  of summer, with chapters on: The fifteen most abundant summer
  residents; The fifteen next in abundance; Nests. Part 3 consists of
  two chapters on fall and spring bird study; Transients, and Migration
  data. Part 4 is devoted to winter, with chapters on Winter residents
  and Winter feeding. Part 5 gives supplementary data, including a
  bibliography. There are nine colored plates.

  “Directions for keeping notes, recording migrations, and learning bird
  songs, a partial list of books and a note on preservation and
  propagation of our native birds widen the usefulness of this valuable
  ornithological primer.”

       + =Dial= 63:352 O 11 ‘17 130w

  “Despite the ever-increasing number of books designed to teach the
  beginner how to study birds, it is doubtful whether, after all, the
  short cuts are not, in the end, long cuts. The way is made easy—and
  unprofitable. This is in large measure true of ‘The way to study
  birds.’ With its nine plates, the book is, of course, no substitute
  for the amply illustrated manuals by Chester Reed and others.”

       — =Nation= 105:130 Ag 2 ‘17 140w

  “A bird book of convenient pocket size and of sufficient
  comprehensiveness to be of actual use.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:220 Ag ‘17 140w

  “Arranged especially for the students of New York city and immediate
  neighborhood, but serves equally well for the southern New England
  states.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 200w


=KYNE, PETER BERNARD.= Webster—man’s man. il *$1.35 (1½c) Doubleday
17-25126

  The hero of this romantic tale is a mining engineer, and the heroine,
  whom he first meets on a western railroad train, is the daughter of
  the former president of the Central American republic. The story is
  brim full of action, most of which takes place in the volcanic little
  republic, which is on the brink of a revolution.

  “An extravagant yarn, lively and entertaining.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:97 D ‘17

       + =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 20w

  “‘Webster—man’s man,’ by Peter B. Kyne, belongs to the familiar and
  ever popular type of the soldier-of-fortune novel, with all the
  inevitable stage properties and situations in which the late Richard
  Harding Davis delighted. The surprising thing about the book is that
  in spite of this there is a freshness and a certain spontaneous
  sincerity that makes one forget the triteness of its theme. ... Its
  people are alive, individual, and intensely appealing.” Philip
  Tillinghast

     + — =Pub W= 92:807 S 15 ‘17 500w

  “A rollicking story of love and adventure which, even in its most
  thrilling moments, preserves the humorous, devil-may-care atmosphere
  that characterizes it from the outset.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 200w




                                   L


=LAGERLÖF, SELMA OTTILIANA LOVISA.= Queens of Kungahälla, and other
sketches; tr. by C. Field. *5s T. Werner Laurie, London

  “‘The queens of Kungahälla’ is a cycle of episodes, woven together in
  a manner highly characteristic of Miss Lagerlöf; the English
  translation before us supplements it with six short tales which are
  quite independent. ... The most complete and characteristic is ‘Saint
  Catherine of Siena.’ ... ‘Old Agneta’ is a mysterious dream of lost
  souls, tortured with frost on a Norwegian glacier, whose sufferings
  are mitigated by the efforts of a solitary woman. ‘The fisherman’s
  ring’ is woven around a description of an Adriatic storm breaking over
  Venice. ‘The bird’s nest’ alone among these stories is mildly
  humorous; it describes how a pair of wagtails built a nest and hatched
  their young in the hand of a hermit who had made a vow not to shift
  his position. ‘God’s peace,’ which is a sort of appendix to the novel
  of ‘Jerusalem,’ recounts a terrific incident in the life and death of
  Ingmar Ingmarson.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “An enchanting revel of fancy.”

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 30w

  “Kungahälla is a locality unknown to the guide-books and, we think, to
  the historians. ... But Miss Lagerlöf gives her fiction such an air of
  reality that we hesitate to say that this city is wholly fabulous. ...
  The English reader of ‘The queens of Kungahälla’ will find himself
  constantly reminded of William Morris’s late prose romances. ... This
  arises from a similarity in the approach of both authors to the
  medieval civic life which attracted each of them. ... Miss Lagerlöf
  has greater vigour of narrative than her English precursor; she leads
  us more vividly on a more intoxicating revel of fancy, but her
  essential attitude to the middle ages is the same. She sees the scenes
  in pure and brilliant colour, like the miniatures in a Book of
  hours. ... Mr C. Field is often adequate and sometimes excellent,
  although his text would bear further revision.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p127 Mr 15 ‘17 1000w


=LAJPAT RAYA.=[2] England’s debt to India; a historical narrative of
Britain’s fiscal policy in India. *$2 Huebsch 330.954

  A companion volume to the author’s “Young India” which reviewed
  British rule in India from the political standpoint. The present
  discussion is from the economic point of view, and is supported by the
  best British testimony, official and non-official. The chapter
  headings indicate the scope of the work: A historical retrospect;
  India and the British industrial revolution; “Tribute” or “drain”; How
  India has helped England make her empire; The cotton industry of
  India; Shipbuilding, shipping, and minor occupations; Miscellaneous
  industrial, agricultural, and mining operations; Agriculture; Economic
  conditions of the people; Famines and their causes; Railways and
  irrigation; Education and literacy; Certain fallacies about the
  “prosperity of India” examined; Taxes and expenditure; Summary and
  conclusion.

  “But, even granting all of the author’s statements and argument,
  passing over his unwillingness to recognize and give just appraisal to
  all that England has done for India, the fact remains that
  understanding of the great issues just now at stake and of loyalty to
  that civilization in which the future welfare of India as well as of
  the rest of the world is bound ought to have led Lajpat Raya to wait
  for the presentation of his plea until the greater issues,
  comprehensive of India’s own, are settled.”

       — =N Y Times= 23:51 F 10 ‘18 600w

  “This author’s manner is as eloquent as his matter is interesting.
  Readers may not agree with all his conclusions, but they will, we are
  sure, appreciate the wealth of information given concerning the
  economic conditions in India.”

       + =Outlook= 118:66 Ja 9 ‘18 120w


=LANCHESTER, FREDERIC WILLIAM.= Flying-machine from an engineering
standpoint. diags *$3 (9c) Van Nostrand 629.1 (Eng ed 17-13807)

  This book contains the James Forrest lecture which the author
  delivered before the Institution of civil engineers three months
  before the outbreak of war. It has been reprinted in more permanent
  form in answer to the many requests for copies. The author says,
  “Since the outbreak of war, from considerations of national secrecy,
  very little, indeed, of a technical character has been added to the
  stock of public information, and thus the position existing
  immediately prior to the war has become a matter of more permanent
  interest than the author anticipated at the time his lecture was
  prepared.” He has also added “A discussion concerning the theory of
  sustentation and expenditure of power in flight,” a paper presented at
  a meeting of the International engineering congress in San Francisco
  in 1915.

         =Nature= 99:241 My 24 ‘17 1000w

  “For a lengthy review see Engineering, April 6, 1917. Also reviewed in
  Automobile Engineer, Jan., 1917; Mechanical Engineer, Jan. 19, 1917.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p3 Ap ‘17 110w

  “An excellent, accurate and interesting lecture on the flying-machine
  for those familiar with the subject.” E. W. B.

       + =St Louis= 15:330 S ‘17 30w


=LANE, ANNA EICHBERG KING (MRS JOHN LANE).= War phases according to
Maria. il *$1 (4c) Lane 17-6332

  Two of these war phases are reprinted from “Maria again.” They are
  included here to make complete the record of Maria’s most noteworthy
  activities between 1914 and 1916. The subjects of the new sketches
  are: Zeppelin dangers; Maria’s political opinions; Maria on
  submarines; On the new equality; Cardboard friendship; War hens;
  Margarine and society; War notice. The book is cleverly illustrated by
  A. H. Fish.

  “We do not find Maria more than moderately amusing.”

     + — =Ath= p596 D ‘16 30w

  “Maria on the subject of everything under heaven from war hens to
  submarines is a genuine comedy character.”

       + =Dial= 62:148 F 22 ‘17 130w

       + =N Y Times= 22:31 Ja 28 ‘17 300w

  “A book not to be missed in these times.”

       + =Sat R= 123:42 Ja 13 ‘17 350w

  “Mrs Lane’s gifted satirical pen might more profitably be turned to
  other phases of society than those connected with Maria’s
  personality.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 29 ‘17 450w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p574 N 30 ‘16 80w


=LANE, ROSE WILDER.= Henry Ford’s own story. il *$1 E. O. Jones, Forest
Hills, N.Y.; for sale by Baker 17-2686

  “The American public, says the writer of this book, has made a hero of
  the big business man. But Henry Ford, she adds, is not a big business
  man; he is a big man in business. She tells, in this book, the very
  simple and very interesting story of Henry Ford’s life, ‘how a farmer
  boy rose to the power that goes with many millions, yet never lost
  touch with humanity.’ ... Her record stops shortly after the outbreak
  of war; it does not include the peace party. But it tells in a good
  deal of detail about his wage scale and other experiments with his
  men.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 13:400 Je ‘17

  “A very human book. If it were just plain fiction it could not
  interest one more. ... To read it is to get a new realization of what
  work means, what persistence will do, on what efficiency must build,
  and of the tremendous power in unselfish will.”

       + =Lit D= 55:45 Ag 4 ‘17 210w

  “The platitudinousness and naïveté, the well meaning but sophomoric
  approach to a problem that are revealed in Mr Ford’s utterances on all
  subjects not relating to engineering are almost incredible. Such
  intellectual infantilism would be impossible any grown man in any
  other civilized country—as would Miss Lane’s ecstatic admiration of
  it. But the story of Henry Ford does not end there. Against his
  contempt for the amenities of life and the finer cultural
  satisfactions may be set his hatred of poverty and wretchedness. In
  that balance, who can say that the admiration of Miss Lane is
  misplaced?”

         =New Repub= 10:384 Ap 28 ‘17 370w

  “A most unusual piece of biography and exceedingly well written.” J.
  W.

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ap 15 ‘17 400w

       + =N Y Times= 22:119 Ap 1 ‘17 180w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:404 My ‘17

       + =R of Rs= 55:442 Ap ‘17 90w

  “Some day, as has been said, Mr Ford will have a real biography;
  before that time comes there will be plenty of studies, personal,
  economic, sociological. Miss Lane’s account is purely popular,
  colorful, newsy, and it portrays the man.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 13 ‘17 650w

  “If sympathy with one’s subject is the sine qua non of biographers
  this should be the perfect biography. Miss Lane’s enthusiasm for her
  subject colors the entire book and surrounds him with a halo of
  glory.” Henrietta Walters

       + =Survey= 38:372 Jl 28 ‘17 120w

  “Written in extremely popular and simple style, it is specially
  adapted to the uneducated or young reader.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:125 Ap ‘17 50w


=LANGE, DIETRICH.= Lure of the Mississippi. il *$1.25 (2½c) Lothrop
17-28332

  During the period of the Civil war, Minnesota was the scene of several
  Indian uprisings, the Sioux seeing in the preoccupation of the white
  man with a war of his own, an opportunity to regain their lands. One
  of these outbreaks is described by Mr Lange in this story for boys.
  The young heroes are two southern boys who have come north with an
  uncle. Driven out by the Indians, they try to rejoin their parents in
  Vicksburg, traveling down the river with an old trapper and a friendly
  red man. Vicksburg is under siege and the boys find that they have
  exchanged one kind of danger for another. But in time they find their
  parents and the entire party makes a safe return journey to what is to
  be their permanent home on the northern prairies.

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

         =Bookm= 46:496 D ‘17 30w

  “Yet the story is not unduly melodramatic, but abounds in good
  pictures of life on the great river.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 140w


=LANGENHOVE, FERNAND VAN.= Growth of a legend. *$1.25 (2c) Putnam 940.91
16-25175

  The “legend” of the title refers to the stories without foundation
  that are common in all countries in time of war. The author has
  examined some of these legends which have been current in Germany. He
  calls his book “a study based upon the German accounts of
  francs-tireurs and ‘atrocities’ in Belgium.” The work has been
  translated by E. B. Sherlock, and is published with a preface by J.
  Mark Baldwin.

       + =Ath= p259 My ‘17 180w

       + =Cleveland= p45 Mr ‘17 100w

       + =Ind= 90:382 My 26 ‘17 60w

  “Written to defend Belgium against unjust accusations, the book also
  gives the human background of many so-called German ‘atrocities’ which
  otherwise would seem inexplicable.”

       + =New Repub= 9:251 D 30 ‘16 350w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:7 Ja ‘17

  “M. van Langenhove writes with restraint and painstaking care of the
  sociological investigator. His book is marked by its absence of
  invective, of excited denial. ... The book is one of the valuable
  contributions to the library of war documents.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:3 Ja 7 ‘17 300w

         =St Louis= 15:166 Je ‘17

  “A dispassionate work, compiled in the impartial spirit of scientific
  research. Rhetorical expressions of indignation are hardly to be found
  in its pages, though they abound in Mr Baldwin’s preface.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p134 Mr 22 ‘17 900w


=LANSBURY, GEORGE.= Your part in poverty. *$1 (4½c) Huebsch 331 17-26891

  George Lansbury is a member of the Church of England, the Church
  socialist league and the Independent labor party, has been for thirty
  years in active political life, and has served on the London county
  council and the Royal commission on the poor law. He writes this
  “appeal to men and women of the comfortable classes,” not from the
  point of view of an economist or a philanthropist but from that of an
  “ordinary person,” to make clear to them “what Labor asks and what, in
  his judgment, on Christian principles, Labor ought to have.” Mr
  Lansbury believes that land values should be taxed, that the wages and
  profit system should be abolished, that we must substitute cooperation
  for competition, and that the workers must “join together in great
  industrial unions or guilds, representative of particular industries.”
  After an introductory chapter, the subject is dealt with under five
  headings: Workmen; Women and children; Business; Churches; What we
  must do. There is a preface by the Bishop of Winchester.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:76 D ‘17

  “Specifically, we are exhorted to join the more advanced section of
  the working class movement, the section which aims at the complete
  control of the great industries by the workers in each industry. ...
  The difficulties which would confront such a system are lightly
  brushed aside by the author in a spirit of simple faith.”

       — =Cath World= 106:256 N ‘17 350w

  “There is broad charity in Mr Lansbury’s criticism of those who
  possess and an earnest appeal to the innate love of man for man. Even
  in his chapter on business, a sermon on the text, ‘business is
  business,’ he offers sympathy for the overwrought business man.”

       + =Ind= 92:536 D 15 ‘17 320w

  “No one who wishes to understand the labor movement in England can
  afford to miss this book; few who read it can fail to be captivated by
  its charm. It is not a program; it is not a treatise. It is simply the
  expression of an attitude to life which is growing rapidly in
  importance in every section of the English working classes.” H. J. L.

       + =New Repub= 13:25 N 3 ‘17 1800w

  “Mr Lansbury’s indictment of society, the church, and the state is
  confused, and his suggested remedies are very vaguely indicated. But
  we are impressed by the sincerity of his wondering indignation, and we
  feel that the book, at any rate, reflects the doubts and fears of many
  intelligent workmen.”

     – + =Spec= 118:276 Mr 3 ‘17 100w

  “He seldom lets his feeling get the better of him. Consequently nearly
  all that he says has force. ... For the sake of symmetry in the
  argument Mr Lansbury ought perhaps to show that the ‘liberated’
  working class—to use the word ‘liberate’ in the sense in which he uses
  it—would represent a higher standard of probity, self-restraint and
  disinterestedness than is exemplified by the prosperous elements in
  society to-day.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 11 ‘17 1150w

  “Mr Lansbury has written a penetrating statement. But it is written in
  such a kindly way that one must wonder at his moderation. He knows the
  poor and their problems, and he knows where the trouble lies. But he
  does not attack those who are responsible.”

     + — =Survey= 39:297 D 8 ‘17 430w


=LANUX, PIERRE DE.=[2] Young France and new America. *$1.25 Macmillan
327.73 17-31439

  “Reflections of a Frenchman who spent the year 1917 in America. They
  deal with the present events and those from the near past, but their
  expression is first inspired by the thought of the near future, that
  is to say, the period that will begin when this war ends.” (Foreword)
  The writer sums up what the Franco-American co-operation will mean in
  the years to come, how the war has opened the way to a better
  understanding of each other and cemented loyalties. To the Frenchman
  who thought of the American as a millionaire pork dealer and the
  American who looked upon the Frenchman as a “fussy, nervous gentleman
  who wore a red ribbon in his buttonhole” the experiences of the past
  three years have been fraught with revelation.

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 2 ‘18 680w

  “I think M. de Lanux writes about us with too obvious a will to be
  kind. What he says of America’s coming influence upon French art,
  literary and plastic, may be true or may be mistaken, but certainly,
  to my taste, it is written by too glad a hand. Other parts of his
  book, however, are wholly free from this taint.” P. L.

     + — =New Repub= 13:350 Ja 19 ‘18 1430w

  “The author’s notably keen and understanding observations and
  conclusions in the United States show him to be a trustworthy student
  of life. Without doubt, M. de Lanux’s book will receive the attention
  and the interest it deserves. The people of this country are ready for
  its message and they will welcome both its spirit and its practical
  suggestions.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:540 D 9 ‘17 780w

         =R of Rs= 57:215 F ‘18 110w

  “Told with an amplitude of apt quotation and with a charm which makes
  this contribution to the literature of foreign relationships a real
  source of inspiration.” B. L.

       + =Survey= 39:526 F 9 ‘18 200w


=LARNER, RING W.= Gullible’s travels, etc. il *$1.25 (3c) Bobbs 17-5401

  Perhaps the narrator in these five tales is the original Tired
  Business Man. His account of “Carmen” would seem to entitle him to
  that distinction. His second experience of opera is described in the
  next sketch, and in the third, from which the book takes its title, he
  relates experiences at Palm Beach. The two stories that follow are in
  like vein. First copyrighted by the Curtis publishing company.

         =N Y Times= 22:155 Ap 15 ‘17 250w

  “Amusing but excessively slangy short stories.”

         =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 6w

  “Underneath the funny narratives of narrow views and man-handled
  English, there is a layer of shrewd common sense that punctures the
  provincialism of the snug middle class and the humbug of our so-called
  exclusive society. ... A broadly farcical volume.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Mr 4 ‘17 150w


=LASKI, HAROLD J.= Studies in the problem of sovereignty. *$2.50 Yale
univ. press 320.1 17-8598

  “The problem of sovereignty which Mr Laski discusses is whether the
  seat of authority in society is single or manifold. In other words,
  whether a sound political theory is monist or pluralist. He argues in
  favor of the pluralist view, and maintains that a society is a
  ‘person’ in reality, not merely by a legal fiction; for the law merely
  recognizes and regularizes a preëxistent fact. He supports this
  argument by an appeal to the evidence supplied by three ecclesiastical
  and religious movements in the nineteenth century in Great Britain—the
  Scottish disruption, the Oxford movement, and the Catholic revival—and
  by the careers of Le Maistre and Bismarck on the Continent.”—New Repub

  “It is an example of painstaking and rather brilliant historical
  writing, and may justly be classed, both as regards the subject-matter
  with which it deals and its scholarly method of treatment, with the
  studies of Mr J. N. Figgis, and particularly his ‘From Gerson to
  Grotius’ and his ‘Churches in the modern state.’ ... When Dr Laski
  leaves the field of history and enters upon a discussion of the nature
  of sovereignty he is less happy, and critics who will attribute to him
  an imperfect understanding of the real character of sovereignty are
  not likely to be wanting.” J. W. Garner

       + =Am Hist R= 22:844 Jl ‘17 2200w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:6 O ‘17

  “An important contribution to the literature of that brilliant school
  of political writers who are forging for us a new and more
  satisfactory theory of the nature of the state. It should be read
  especially in connection with Maitland’s classic introduction to
  Gierke’s ‘Political theories of the middle ages,’ and Figgis’s
  ‘Churches in the modern state.’ ... Not only does [Mr Laski’s
  doctrine] mean an abandonment, or at least a serious impairment of the
  theory of the sovereignty of the state, but it involves the revival of
  the eighteenth century doctrine of natural rights, now, however,
  attached to group-units instead of to individuals. Whether in every
  particular these ideas will withstand the effect of criticism, there
  is no doubt that they offer in some respects a much better explanation
  of contemporaneous political tendencies and movements than the
  Hegelian theory that the state is an all-inclusive metaphysical
  organism, which governs the practical politics of modern Germany.” W.
  J. Shepard

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:582 Ag ‘17 550w

  “Throughout, the style is as incisive and clear as the temper is
  judicial, and everywhere sympathy is combined with a rare detachment.”
  C. H. McIlwain

       + =Dial= 62:436 My 17 ‘17 2700w

  “The book is marked by a certain agreeable scholarship. This
  scholarship in respect to concrete historical happenings, is however,
  set in a philosophical frame which is most unbecoming and which must
  in all frankness be ascribed to the author’s very superficial
  knowledge of political theory and to his failure to understand or to
  appreciate some of the most fundamental distinctions of political
  science. Even if Mr Laski’s assumptions were not of this superficial
  character, his practical teaching would destroy itself thru its very
  absurdity.” N. M. B.

     – + =Educ R= 54:513 D ‘17 1050w

  “Mr Laski has done his part both in making clear his own tentative
  ideas and in presenting the historical data upon which they are based.
  This book, moreover, is not to be his last word on the subject.”

       + =Nation= 105:671 D 13 ‘17 280w

  “Possibly he assumes at times too great a knowledge of the facts for
  American readers, and writes in an unduly allusive style, but to the
  mind of any one who comes from Oxford and has lived in its atmosphere,
  so permeated with the tradition of the Oxford movement and Catholic
  revival, the story seems excellently and sympathetically interpreted,
  for Oxford, though it gives an artificial mannerism which soon dies,
  gives also a real inspiration, which quickens as well as lives; and Mr
  Laski belongs, I think, to those whom Oxford has taught to see life
  whole, as well as to study it in detail.” K. L.

       + =New Repub= 11:25 My 5 ‘17 1650w

  “The London Times, with visions of conscientious objectors rampant,
  finds much in the book that is ‘disreputable and even dangerous,’ and
  one cannot forbear to suggest that the Times is more agitated about
  the alleged disrepute of Mr Laski’s theories than their danger. But
  after the indispensable ‘word of warning’ has been meted out, one
  cannot fail to appreciate that the truth of Mr Laski’s reasoning
  overtops the danger.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 820w

  “Mr Laski is an Englishman, but he bears a historic Polish name. He
  should study, from the point of view of that pragmatism to which he
  makes frequent appeal, the effects of the liberum veto in the old
  Polish constitution. It still has its defenders as the last word in
  the assertion of the moral liberty of the citizen. ... Though there is
  much in this volume which we consider disputable and even dangerous,
  there is also much that is sound and illuminating; and though his
  presentation of his subject is too often involved and obscure, it
  rarely fails to stimulate thought.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p231 My 17 ‘17 2250w

  “He has given us a scholarly and invigorating historical review of the
  significant events and theories which he selects as background for his
  discussion. He has also given timely warning to us, as citizens, of
  the dangers of an implicit acceptance of a certain grim Hegelianism
  which has swept us unprotestingly on into the vortex of a great All
  which is more than ourselves.’” C: Seymour

       + =Yale R= n s 7:443 Ja ‘18 1250w


=LATOURETTE, KENNETH SCOTT.= Development of China. *$1.75 (3½c) Houghton
951 17-8745

  “Mighty changes are taking place in China. It is undergoing a
  transformation whose results no man can foresee. ... It is certain,
  however, that the outcome will profoundly affect the entire world. ...
  If Americans are not to blunder, if they are to make to the new China
  the unselfish contributions of which they are capable, if they are not
  to stumble into unnecessary conflict with Japan, if they are to share
  to the utmost in the trade and the industrial development of the new
  China, they must know her and must know her better than they do now.”
  (Introd.) The author, formerly of the College of Yale in China, has
  written this book for college students and for the general public. His
  aim has been to present in the light of modern scholarship a sketch of
  the essential facts of Chinese history and development and of the
  historical setting for its present-day problems.

  “The characteristic feature of this book is successful
  condensation. ... The book is well written, well printed, and should
  prove very valuable for the purpose for which it is intended. It
  brings together within brief compass a variety of essential
  information which will greatly facilitate the work of classes in
  oriental history and contemporary politics. In producing this work
  Professor Latourette has rendered a distinct service both to student
  and to teacher.” S. K. Hornbeck

       + =Am Hist R= 22:857 Jl ‘17 670w

  “Bibliography (7p.) with useful descriptive notes.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:444 Jl ‘17

  “Will serve as a valuable textbook to the student of Chinese history.
  It should meet with even greater favor from that class of general
  readers who, without the drudgery of technicality and details, desire
  an unconventional introduction to the civilization of the Far East.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 250w

         =Cath World= 105:400 Je ‘17 150w

  “Perhaps a dozen brief histories of China are available in English.
  Some of them are hastily written and untrustworthy. Some are
  prejudiced. Some are overloaded with dynastic details. ... There is,
  therefore, a place for Mr Latourette’s ‘Development of China,’ which
  is carefully written, fair, and free from excessive technicalities.”
  F: A. Ogg

       + =Dial= 62:524 Je 14 ‘17 1050w

  “Mr Latourette is the first writer of a serious work who has
  accurately set forth the character of the late Yuan Shi Kai. He has
  furnished also a readable statement of the progress of events since
  1894. ... Those interested at all in the Far East will find the volume
  worth reading and rereading.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 Jl 14 ‘17 170w

  “It furnishes a splendid background to just such a study as Professor
  Hornbeck’s. While lacking the vitality and the temperamental felicity
  of such life-long writers on China and her history as Giles, for
  instance, and Little and Martin, Mr Latourette does nevertheless cover
  the ground that these more rugged writers have covered before him; and
  he covers it with a precision and a scholarship that perfectly adapt
  his book to the college classrooms for which he has designed it. ...
  He further adds to the value of the book as a basis for instruction by
  a voluminous index and an extremely serviceable and well-chosen
  bibliography.”

       + =Nation= 104:681 Je 7 ‘17 330w

  “An introductory sketch like Mr Latourette’s, notable for the
  scholarly absence of inflation of facts, for its sense of proportion,
  and for the understanding it gives of the larger features of China’s
  development and of the historical setting of present-day problems,
  meets a real need.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:254 Jl 8 ‘17 500w

  “He is fair to the Japanese, fair to the British about the so-called
  opium war, fair to the missionaries and entirely appreciative of all
  that is best in China’s glorious past. By far the best part of his
  book is that which deals with present-day problems.” I. C. Hannah

       + =Survey= 38:360 Jl 21 ‘17 170w


=LAUCK, WILLIAM JETT, and SYDENSTRICKER, EDGAR.= Conditions of labor in
American industries. *$1.75 Funk 331.8 17-13561

  “The present volume is designed to meet a practical need for a compact
  collection of the results of the large number of investigations and
  studies of conditions under which the American wage-earner and his
  family work and live. It is presented merely as a summarization of the
  principal and fundamental facts that have been ascertained during the
  past decade and a half; it is not intended to be a critical discussion
  of those facts, or to be an argument in favor of or against any
  partizan conclusion, or any remedial program.” (Preface) These
  summaries are presented in nine chapters; The labor force; Wages and
  earnings; Loss in working time; Conditions causing irregular
  employment; Working conditions; The wage-earner’s family; Living
  conditions; The wage-earner’s health; The adequacy of wages and
  earnings. Mr Lauck is author with J. W. Jenks of a standard work on
  immigration. Mr Sydenstricker wrote one of the reports for the
  Commission on industrial relations.

  “The statistical data presented—most of which was gathered for the
  United States Commission on industrial relations—are quite
  extensive. ... There is very little new material in the book. Its
  purpose, on the contrary, was to make easily available existing
  material, and this the authors have done in a painstaking manner.
  Particularly valuable are the discussions of unemployment, its causes
  and effects: family income; and the health of the worker. The chapter
  on working conditions is less satisfactory. It is unfortunate that so
  little attention is paid to unionism and collective bargaining.
  Perhaps the chief weakness of the book is the tendency to dogmatize
  from insufficient data.” J: A. Fitch

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:649 S ‘17 1150w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:151 F ‘18

  “The book is intelligently planned, is designed to answer those
  questions which so frequently arise in the mind of the legislator, the
  teacher, the general reader, and the newspaper editor. ... While
  replete with statistics, it is interesting throughout. It deserves
  careful study and a wide circle of readers.” J. T. Young

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:234 Jl ‘17 570w

         =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 40w

         =Dial= 63:350 O 11 ‘17 220w

  “A valuable reference book for educators, social workers, and all in
  any way engaged in handling employment problems.”

       + =Ind= 91:137 Jl 28 ‘17 100w

  Reviewed by Nathan Fine

         =J Pol Econ= 25:851 O ‘17 760w

  “No reflective business man, no thoughtful workingman, no social
  worker, no trade unionist, no student of industrial problems, can
  study the situation here revealed without realizing how fundamental to
  our national life these facts must be, and how thoroughly they deserve
  consideration.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 N 3 ‘17 430w

  “To some extent the ‘American labor year book,’ published under the
  editorship of the present reviewer, attempted to accomplish the same
  purpose. The present volume is more inclusive. As a reference volume
  on present-day industrial conditions the book should prove valuable to
  those who have no opportunity to consult original sources.” Alexander
  Trachtenberg

       + =N Y Call= p14 Je 24 ‘17 430w

       + =N Y Times= 22:296 Ag 12 ‘17 650w

  “The data are largely those relating to conditions between 1900 and
  1914 or 1915, since which time many changes have taken place. These,
  however, are noted, and such facts as are obtainable concerning them
  are reviewed. The authors appear to have succeeded remarkably well in
  keeping up with a constantly and rapidly-moving procession of
  industrial events.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 5 ‘17 870w

  “The book is devoted, in the main, to an examination of the income of
  the American wage-earner and a consideration of its sufficiency. The
  chapters that deal with that subject are worth reading. One may not
  always agree with the conclusions—based as they are on statistics that
  are anywhere from four to sixteen years old and some of them
  questionable too—but the discussions are illuminating and the figures
  are the only ones we have. ... The book is full of little errors of
  varying degrees of importance, from misspelled names to misstatements
  of fact. Dates get mixed, words are omitted, pages at one point are
  incorrectly inserted. These are minor matters. But there are other
  errors that are more serious.” J: A. Fitch

     + — =Survey= 38:441 Ag 18 ‘17 600w


=LAUGHLIN, CLARA ELIZABETH.= Heart of Her Highness. il *$1.50 (2c)
Putnam 17-25586

  A romance of Flanders in the fifteenth century. The heroine is Mary of
  Burgundy, orphaned daughter of Charles the Bold. With her young
  step-mother as her only sympathetic counselor, Mary is beset with many
  troubles. In her childhood she had been betrothed to the young son of
  the emperor of Germany, but the proposed alliance had all but been
  forgotten, and Louis of France wished to force a marriage with his
  son, while her own people urged a marriage equally distasteful. Mary
  herself has given her heart to an unknown youth, and while it looks
  for a time as tho love must be sacrificed to her country’s needs, the
  two claims are in the end discovered to be identical.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:132 Ja ‘18

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:342 N ‘17 70w

  “Begins like a novel and ends like a fairy tale. There is more than
  one vivid passage; and if the dialogue is too conventional to be
  convincing, it is suggestive of those firelight stories that were
  always too good to be true.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:373 S 30 ‘17 230w

  “Miss Laughlin is to be commended for telling her story in present-day
  English and avoiding the practice of some historical romancers of
  attempting to reproduce archaic forms of speech.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 220w


=LAUGHLIN, JAMES LAURENCE.= Latter-day problems. *$1.50 (2c) Scribner
330.4 17-3490

  The three last chapters of the first edition, dealing with money and
  banking, have been omitted from this revised edition. In their place
  the author has added five chapters on: Women and wealth; Monopoly of
  labor; Capitalism and social discontent; Business and democracy;
  Economic liberty. The omitted chapters may be included later in a
  volume dealing with monetary problems.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:275 Mr ‘17

  “The tone of Prof. Laughlin’s dismissal of the case for the working
  class makes a liberal suspect him. ... The best thing to be said for
  ‘Latter-day problems’ is that it makes a very creditable attempt to
  solve 20th century problems with 18th century formulæ.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 270w


=LAVIS, FRED.= Railway estimates, design, quantities and costs. il *$5
McGraw 625 17-14018

  “The author, a special lecturer on railway engineering at Yale
  university, presents in one volume all that is necessary in estimating
  the probable cost of a proposed railway and the design of general
  features, together with a complete analysis of details not hitherto
  available in any single publication.” (Pittsburgh) “The book is more
  than a development of chapter 8 of the author’s ‘Railway location,
  surveys and estimates.’ It is an expansion of that chapter and a
  setting forth of the timely subject matter in a manner that carries
  weight and impresses the reader with the author’s broad and practical
  knowledge of the subject.” (Engin News-Rec)

  “It is a pleasure to note that the author, in handling chapters 3 to
  11 inclusive—the principal classified cost elements—has, as is his
  custom, confined himself to the practical illustrative essentials and
  avoided wordy expansions of irrelevant features. One would have been
  glad to find in the text three or four chapters instead of three or
  four pages on the subject of electrical operation and electrification
  of steam roads.” M. P. Paret

     + — =Engin News-Rec= 79:128 Jl 19 ‘17 580w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:662 O ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p23 O ‘17 50w


=LAY, WILFRID.= Man’s unconscious conflict; a popular exposition of
psychoanalysis. *$1.50 (2c) Dodd 130 17-9481

  The author offers an interpretation of Freud which will be more
  acceptable to American readers than many that have preceded it. He has
  adopted a nomenclature that is more in accordance with our common
  usage and modes of thought, thus eliminating much of the seeming
  offensiveness of the Freudian theories. The treatment is popular. His
  purpose is “to show the unconscious operating in every act of our
  lives, not merely in the actions ordinarily known as unconscious or
  automatic, but in that part of our activity to which we attribute the
  most vivid consciousness.” One important chapter, on a phase little
  touched on heretofore, deals with the application of psychoanalysis to
  education. The author suggests that most if not all the faults of the
  present system of instruction in schools is due to ignorance of the
  function of the unconscious.

  “Fascinating and very practical book.” L. M. Field

       + =Bookm= 45:417 Je ‘17 550w

  “Dr Lay, for all the qualities of his argument that look like
  prepossessions, lays out this difficult lore with a clarity, a charm
  and a high moral force, that point his book with every power to
  instruct and improve. No science is so immediately devoted to human
  service as psychology, no person with his own or society’s welfare at
  heart can afford to neglect it, and few writers have laid bare its
  main principles with happier effect than Dr Lay.” B. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 28 ‘17 1000w

  “A coherent and systematic account, in simple terms, of the
  fundamental principles and conceptions that are implied in the
  discoveries and hypotheses of Freud and his school. This is in itself
  no small achievement. ... It is a pity that Dr Lay still defers so
  much to the rather inconclusive and therapeutically as well as
  theoretically useless generalization of sex; that he underestimates,
  if he at all considers, the importance of the ‘self-regarding
  instinct’; and that he offers hasty prescriptions to teachers.”

     + — =Dial= 62:485 My 31 ‘17 230w

  “It gives one a fair idea, in an easy and entertaining style, of what
  it is all about—and incidentally enables one to measure the depths of
  psychoanalytic credulity.”

     + — =Nation= 105:182 Ag 16 ‘17 300w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:93 Je ‘17 30w

         =Pratt= p7 O ‘17 50w

  “Valuable book, which should be in the hands of all parents and
  educators.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:553 My ‘17 110w


=LAZARILLO DE TORMES.= Life of Lazarillo de Tormes and his fortunes and
adversities. *$1.50 (4c) Kennerley 17-12486

  This version of the first picaresque romance is “done out of the
  Castilian from R. Foulché-Delbosc’s restitution of the editio
  princeps, by Louis How.” (Sub-title) “The “Life” was probably in
  existence in some form or other, perhaps for some time, before 1554,
  the date from which our earliest editions reach us. But the numerous
  English editions of the sixteenth, seventeenth, and early nineteenth
  centuries are not widely current in these days, and they are all
  filtered through French translations.” (Dial) There is no plot.
  Lazarillo’s experiences with his many masters form a satire on society
  in sixteenth century Spain. After a prologue, the narrative proper is
  divided into seven treatises or chapters. “The first deals with the
  early life of Lazarillo and his peregrinations as guide of a blind
  beggar. In the next four he appears as the servant of a priest, an
  impoverished petty noble, a friar and a pardoner. In the sixth and
  seventh he serves a painter of tambourines, a chaplain and a
  constable, and finally becomes a town crier of Toledo, ... and settles
  down as the complacent husband of a maidservant of the archpriest of
  San Salvador parish. Most of the action passes in Toledo or in its
  immediate neighborhood.” (Introd.) The historical introduction of
  forty-four pages, and the notes, are by Charles Philip Wagner.

         =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 100w

  “Mr How has attempted a literal version; he goes so far as frequently
  to sacrifice smooth English in his effort to keep the construction of
  the original. The result is occasionally a racy bit of phrasing, but
  too often the reader misses the craftsmanship of the anonymous author.
  The notes, by Mr Charles P. Wagner, will be of interest to serious
  students of Spanish. Some of the latter will doubtless wish to quarrel
  with Mr How over a few of his renderings.”

     + — =Dial= 63:216 S 13 ‘17 290w

       + =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 70w

  “Should serve greatly to widen the circle of readers of the tale. We
  think such who come to it afresh will enjoy the series of anecdotes
  through which Lazarillo passes with the perfect effrontery of the
  mediæval rogue.”

       + =Nation= 105:181 Ag 16 ‘17 200w


=LEACOCK, STEPHEN BUTLER.=[2] Frenzied fiction. *$1.25 (2c) Lane 827
18-768

  To “Nonsense novels,” “Further foolishness” and other humorous works,
  Mr Leacock now adds a work of “Frenzied fiction.” It opens with the
  author’s “revelations as a spy,” quite as solemnly ponderous and
  neither more nor less revelatory than many of the supposedly authentic
  confessions. Other pieces in the book are: Father Knickerbocker—a
  fantasy; The prophet in our midst; Personal adventures in the spirit
  world; The cave man as he is; The new education; Back from the land.

  “The book is the work of a warmhearted and joyous spirit, a friendly,
  gentle soul that pokes good natured fun at our ridiculousness, our
  pretensions. He makes you like him and he makes you laugh. It is
  much.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:573 D 23 ‘17 1500w

  “This is Leacock at his best, and this best is better than others of
  his recent books. The fun is sly and penetrating; the burlesque
  quality is sustained; the writing is that of a humorist, not that of a
  mere jokesmith.”

       + =Outlook= 118:66 Ja 9 ‘18 40w


=LEAGUE TO ENFORCE PEACE.= Enforced peace; proceedings of the first
annual national assemblage. 50c (1c) League to enforce peace 172.4
17-697

  A volume containing the proceedings of the first annual national
  assemblage of the League to enforce peace, held in Washington, May
  26-27, 1916. An introductory chapter is devoted to the organization of
  the League. Its principles and proposals are given in an appendix.
  Among the papers reprinted are: The League to enforce peace and the
  soul of the United States, by Edward A. Filene; The League program,
  preparedness, and ultimate reduction of armaments, by Hamilton Holt;
  Constitutionality of the proposals, by William H. Taft; The Monroe
  doctrine, by George Grafton Wilson; The European nations and the
  League program, by John Bates Clark; American labor and a constructive
  settlement of the war, by Samuel Gompers; American agriculture and the
  League to enforce peace, by Carl Vrooman.

         =Cath World= 104:839 Mr ‘17 250w

         =Cleveland= p37 Mr ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:135 F ‘17

         =Spec= 118:568 My 19 ‘17 160w


=LEAMY, EDMUND STANISLAUS.= My ship, and other verses. *$1 Lane 811
17-30423

  Many of the poems in this book were inspired by travel in far
  countries. The author is the son of an Irish patriot, and Katharine
  Tynan in her foreword says of him: “His father’s adventure was the one
  upon which so many have embarked, will embark—the great adventure for
  the Dark Rosaleen. The son’s adventure carries him over oceans and
  continents, but he has always the faithful, the untravelled heart that
  belongs by right to his father’s son.”

  “Full of the spirit of youth and glowing with adventure.”

       + =Lit D= 55:62 D 8 ‘17 350w

  “Mr Leamy sings sweetly his unaffected songs of gentle and kindly
  sentiment, old memories, wandering and the home-spirit, seen tenderly
  through mellowing mists of revery and dream.” M. T.

       + =New Repub= 13:353 Ja 19 ‘18 30w

  “A collection of verse that seeks to translate the emotions aroused in
  the American by America herself.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:33 Ja 27 ‘18 350w


=LE BAS, SIR HEDLEY FRANCIS=, ed. Lord Kitchener memorial book. il
*$2.50 Doran (*3s 6d Hodder and Stoughton, London) (Eng ed 17-12259)

  This record of Lord Kitchener’s life is largely pictorial, altho
  tributes by men who were his friends and associates are included, also
  a complete record of his own speeches made during the progress of the
  war. The profits from the sale of the book go to the Lord Kitchener
  national memorial fund, which is devoted to the relief of disabled
  soldiers.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 21 ‘17 450w

  “This is not a biography, and yet in speech and picture it records the
  life of Kitchener from his boyhood until as field marshal his life
  ended.”

       + =Lit D= 55:37 S 15 ‘17 300w

  “The volume’s first value is pictorial. The second value is personal.”

       + =Outlook= 116:75 My 9 ‘17 190w

         =R of Rs= 55:666 Je ‘17 110w

       + =Spec= 118:241 F 24 ‘17 150w


=LE BLANC, MAURICE.= Golden triangle; the return of Arsène Lupin. il
*$1.35 (1½c) Macaulay co. 17-2342

  It is April, 1915, and Paris has her share of maimed soldiers. She
  also has still in her midst spies and plotters. It is around the
  efforts of one of these soldiers, Captain Patrice Belval, to free the
  woman he loves from the fate that threatens her that this story turns.
  But the plot is too intricate for the honest, impulsive captain to
  unravel. For “Little Mother Coralie” of the hospital wards is wife to
  the scoundrel financier, Essarès Bey, a Turk passing as an Egyptian
  and a naturalized Frenchman. The wealth of France is at stake.
  Therefore Arsène Lupin, under an assumed name, again appears upon the
  scene, and under his marvellous skill, the tangled web is made
  straight.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:97 D ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:347 N ‘17 40w

         =Boston Transcript= p10 N 24 ‘17 270w

  “The entire atmosphere is always tense, but so confused at times that
  there is difficulty in determining just what is what and who is
  who. ... The characters of the story are well done.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:367 S 30 ‘17 320w

  “One flaw in the story I must point out. It contains too much crime.
  Does Le Blanc confuse us connoisseurs with drunkards of crime who must
  have their dose increased in size with each chapter?” M. A. Hopkins

     + — =Pub W= 92:806 S 15 ‘17 450w

  “It must be acknowledged that the book is more entertaining before
  Arsène Lupin appears like a god out of the machine to smooth all
  difficulties in almost too easy a manner.”

         =Spec= 119:221 S 1 ‘17 40w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 120w


=LE BON, GUSTAVE.= Psychology of the great war; tr. by E. Andrews. *$3
Macmillan 940.91 (Eng ed 16-23099)

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “Only for libraries making a very complete collection of war
  material.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:307 Ap ‘17

  “The reader will find M. Le Bon’s argument saturated with loyalty, but
  not blindly; he will find running through it a sanity of comprehension
  that may lead to irrelevance but not to injustice; and he will observe
  a sincere objective intent. ... In view of the peculiarly meagre
  contributions that in any way illuminate the psychology of the war,
  and equally of the fact that so many writers admit and emphasize that
  the psychological causes are the significant ones, the essay of M. Le
  Bon attains an importance which his reputation presages and his
  performance confirms.” Joseph Jastrow

 *     + =Dial= 62:182 Mr 8 ‘17 1700w

  “The title of this book does not convey a correct idea of its scope.
  It would probably be impossible for any living man to write a
  scientific psychology of the war, partly because psychology is not at
  present provided with the necessary principles and methods and partly
  because sufficient data are not yet available. ... This must not be
  taken to imply that the book is not valuable. It would be valuable if
  it were only as a collection of excerpts from newspapers, interviews,
  letters, and state papers. But it is more than this; it is an
  informing and stimulating book. I mean only that it is not what the
  author seemingly intends it to be, namely, an explanation of the war
  in terms of psychological laws. The author adds nothing in the present
  book to what he has already said on the collective mind.” R. B. Perry

     + — =J Philos= 14:527 S 13 ‘17 1400w

  “What Gustave Le Bon writes is always worth reading. No man living
  knows more about the facts of social psychology, or builds more
  plausible hypotheses when facts are wanting. ... If the author could
  have written with scientific impartiality, he would have produced the
  most important rational work on the war that has yet appeared.
  Scientific impartiality, however, is not to be expected from a patriot
  whose country is agonizing under invasion. ... The scientific value of
  the first third of the book is sadly impaired by mystical
  contamination of rational conceptions.” A. S. J.

     + — =New Repub= 10:52 F 10 ‘17 1450w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:7 Ja ‘17


=LEDOUX, LOUIS VERNON.= George Edward Woodberry: a study of his poetry.
(Contemporary American poet ser.) $1 Poetry review co., 12 Chauncy st.,
Cambridge, Mass. 811 17-18966

  “An interesting biographical essay on this great modern New Englander,
  on the influences that have governed him and made his poetry what it
  is, thoughtful, philosophical, cultivated and also very acutely felt.
  The book includes a good bibliography of all of Mr Woodberry’s
  writings.” (Ind) Mr Ledoux is vice-president of a firm of mining
  engineers and has published several volumes of poetry.

         =Ath= p469 S ‘17 30w

       + =Ind= 90:553 Ja 23 ‘17 70w

       + =Lit D= 54:1787 Je 9 ‘17 620w

       + =R of Rs= 55:660 Je ‘17 40w


=LEDWIDGE, FRANCIS.= Songs of peace. *3s 6d Jenkins, London 821

  “Last July there fell, fighting for world freedom in the ranks of the
  Royal Inniskilling fusiliers, the Irish poet who more than any other
  of recent years has won for himself a unique place in Irish (and
  incidentally English) letters. ... His work was introduced to the
  world by Lord Dunsany, who wrote the foreword to ‘Songs of the
  fields,’ a friendly office which he has again performed for ‘Songs of
  peace,’ Ledwidge’s last book. ... The poems in the new volume are more
  self-revelatory than those of ‘Songs of the fields.’ ... The influence
  of outward events is shown, not only in the tone of the poems, but in
  the names of the sections into which the slender volume is divided—At
  home, In barracks, In camp, At sea, In Serbia, In Greece, In hospital
  in Egypt. Despite stirring times and deeds, the poet’s thoughts turn
  constantly to Ireland, and his song is most often of her. For this
  reason Lord Dunsany names the new volume ‘Songs of peace,’ ‘in spite
  of the circumstances under which they were written.’”—Boston
  Transcript

       + =Ath= p593 D ‘16 60w

  “Ledwidge is before all else the poet of Irish landscape. ... Not only
  does he give the physical appearance of Ireland, but the true
  inwardness of her landscape—the color, the scent, and the sound of his
  beloved land, that the Gael may feel a catch in his breath as he
  reads, and find his brain flooded with many memories. ... As a poet of
  nature, Ledwidge has imaginative power linking him with the great
  poets of the past. ... Yet he is in no sense imitative, he belongs to
  his own day and has a personality of his own.” N. J. O’C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 3 ‘17 1200w

       + =Pratt= p34 O ‘17 30w

  “This is Mr Ledwidge’s second book, and it shows happily, if anyone
  doubted it, that his gifts and endowments are of the lasting order. He
  is a genuine poet; he raises common things above their commonness; he
  has the vision which perceives and makes beauty.”

       + =Sat R= 123:162 F 17 ‘17 520w

  “Last week brought the news that the author of these ‘Songs of peace’
  has been killed. ... No one can say what he would have been if he had
  lived. One cannot be confident about the promise of the queer tender
  beauty in these poems. ... But of the beauties there can be no doubt.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p391 Ag 16 ‘17 1050w


=LEE, JAMES MELVIN.=[2] History of American journalism. il *$3.50
Houghton 071 18-292

  A comprehensive and authoritative history of American journalism
  prepared by the head of the New York university school of journalism.
  The text which runs through the following chapters is illustrated with
  reproductions of famous papers and cartoons: Precursors of American
  newspapers; The first American newspaper—the Boston News-Letter;
  Beginnings in colonies; Colonial period, 1704-1765; Revolutionary
  period, 1765-1783; Period of early republic, 1783-1812; First dailies
  and early party organs; Party press period, 1812-1832; Beginnings in
  states, 1783-1832; Beginnings of the penny press; Transition period,
  1832-1841; Beginnings in states and territories, 1833-1873; Mexican
  war to Civil war period, 1846-1860; Civil war period, 1860-1865;
  Reconstruction period, 1865-1880; Period of financial readjustment,
  1880-1900; Period of social readjustment, 1900-; Journalism of to-day.

  “Unfortunately, Mr Lee thinks it necessary to belittle the work of his
  predecessor. Were Mr Lee’s own work absolutely flawless, this harsh
  judgment upon the work of his fellow journalist might be pardonable,
  but under the circumstances it seems peculiarly unnecessary and
  inconsiderate. The vast amount of information gathered by Mr Lee makes
  his volume undeniably of great value as a storehouse of facts. But as
  a history it contains many defects of arrangement and style. Its index
  is so incomplete as to be absolutely worthless.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 1150w

  “He has performed his task con amore, as his comprehensive work
  attests.”

       + =Lit D= 56:44 F 9 ‘18 370w

  “A book of prime importance to all newspaper men who take an
  intelligent interest in their profession, of decided interest to the
  general reader on account of its lively style, and of real value to
  the student of American life because of its comprehensiveness and its
  presentation of the ethics as well as the annals of its subject.”

       + =Outlook= 118:66 Ja 9 ‘18 60w


=LEE, JENNETTE BARBOUR (PERRY) (MRS GERALD STANLEY LEE).= Green jacket.
*$1.35 (2½c) Scribner 17-24273

  This is an unusual kind of detective story. Millicent Newberry, a
  small woman with gray eyes and hair, who dresses in gray, and whom
  anyone passing in a crowd would not have noticed particularly, tired
  of detective work as done in Tom Corbin’s detective agency, because
  she came to see that “It isn’t commonsense to go on catching folks and
  locking them up forever, or for a little while—and then letting them
  run loose.” So she set up an agency of her own and took no cases
  except with a signed agreement that she should say what should be done
  with the criminal she caught. Milly solved the mystery of the Mason
  emeralds which had for two years baffled other detectives. It was her
  custom to knit when on a case, and the book takes its title from the
  green jacket she was knitting while she pondered on the mysterious
  disappearance of the emeralds.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:97 D ‘17

  “This story of Millicent Newberry is largely a thing of atmosphere,
  for it is the subtler realm of atmosphere that Mrs Lee finds the
  surest way to make her heroine real to us.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p2 D 15 ‘17 1150w

         =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 60w

  “Altho the author leads the reader to expect miraculous sleuth work on
  the part of Millie Newberry, one is sadly disappointed. The story is
  rather well constructed but there is not sufficient suspense to hold
  the interest.”

     – + =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 60w

       + =New Repub= 13:sup14 N 17 ‘17 90w

       + =N Y Times= 22:367 S 30 ‘17 300w


=LEE, ROGER IRVING.= Health and disease; their determining factors.
*$1.75 (1½c) Little 613 17-8216

  The author is professor of hygiene at Harvard university and this book
  on preventive medicine is the outgrowth of lectures delivered to his
  classes. It is intended for the layman, whose duty it is to cooperate
  intelligently with health authorities in the prevention and control of
  disease. Dr Lee’s purpose is to give him a summary of the knowledge
  that has been gained by medical science, not omitting to point out the
  things that science has not yet learned and the fields that are still
  to be explored. There are chapters on: Heredity; Food; Air; The skin;
  Exercise and work; Light and the eyes; The hygiene of the teeth and
  the upper air passages; The hygiene of the mind and the nervous
  system; The communicable diseases; The air-borne diseases, etc. There
  is also a discussion of Occupational diseases and a chapter on The
  function of the board of health.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:46 N ‘17

  “Concise and easily readable. ... The volume constitutes a summary
  knowledge gained from scientific medicine in recent years, but there
  is an utter absence of technical matter so unwelcome to the layman.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 3 ‘17 370w

       + =Cleveland= p110 S ‘17 20w

  “There is nothing in the nature of ‘every-man-his-own-physician’ about
  this book. On the contrary, the reader of books like this will be very
  likely to learn when to send for the physician. ... There is a good
  index and the book is well printed.”

       + =Ind= 90:515 Je 16 ‘17 200w

  “Now, as never before, such a work may helpfully serve employers who
  would understand the wisdom and gain of solving the health problems of
  their employees. It may even assist medical practitioners who would
  like a summary of preventive remedies.”

       + =Lit D= 55:33 Jl 14 ‘17 370w

       + =R of Rs= 55:556 My ‘17 90w

  “It is a misfortune to use this phrase [’The air-borne diseases’] in
  any sense. ... Specially to be commended are the chapters on Alcohol,
  tobacco and the habit-forming drugs and on the Venereal diseases and
  sex-hygiene. ... It is to be most cordially recommended to the lay
  reader and might find a useful place as a text in a general elementary
  college course in hygiene and sanitation, and should certainly be on
  the desk of every teacher of biology and hygiene.” C. M. Hilliard

       + =Science= n s 45:463 My 11 ‘17 350w

  “Sane, comprehensive, interesting and up-to-the-minute. One feels
  that, at last, the subject is set upright, solid, and on its feet.” G.
  S.

       + =Survey= 39:171 N 17 ‘17 200w


=LEFEVRE, EDWIN.= To the last penny. il *$1.35 (2c) Harper 17-10667

  Tommy Leigh, newly graduated from college, is faced with the necessity
  of earning a living. Having grown up in the belief that his father is
  a rich man, the discovery that he must fend for himself comes as a
  shock. The severity of the blow, however, grows out of the suspicion
  that his father is not an honest man, that he has taken advantage of
  his position as a trusted bank employee to appropriate the funds that
  paid for his son’s education. Tommy’s first job takes him out to
  Dayton, Ohio, where he enters the employ of the Tecumseh Motor
  Company. The chief interest of the story is centered in Thompson, the
  head of this company and his business methods. At the end there is an
  adjustment between Tommy and his father and an explanation of the
  father’s motives.

  “A good clean story. ... Appeared in the Saturday Evening Post.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:450 Jl ‘17

  “A mechanical piece of work.” H. W. Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 46:341 N ‘17 40w

  “The story has already appeared serially in one of the well-known
  weeklies and will be a welcome addition to the summer library of
  novels. ... It is a book to help one as well as to amuse him.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1857 Je 16 ‘17 220w

  “Entertaining, and exceptionally ingenious.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:134 Ap 15 ‘17 400w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 29 ‘17 270w


=LEGGE, THOMAS MORISON, and others.= Origin, symptoms, pathology,
treatment and prophylaxis of toxic jaundice observed in munition
workers. *$2.50 Longmans 615.9

  “Since the war a new occupational disease has been listed in the
  British factory inspection reports and has been added to those for
  which compensation can be claimed under the law. This is toxic
  jaundice, a form of poisoning caused by contact with the explosive
  trinitrotoluol, or triton, or TNT, to give it all its names. ... In
  1916 there were reported in Great Britain 181 cases of toxic
  jaundice—the severe form of TNT poisoning—with 52 deaths. Milder forms
  need not be certified, but they are said to number about 30 times as
  many (some 5,400). ... As our output of munitions increases, TNT
  poisoning will inevitably increase unless we adopt the means of
  prevention worked out in England. This book is a mine of interesting
  information concerning this new and important industrial
  disease.”—Survey

  “While much of it is very technical and of value only to physicians,
  there is a great deal for the lay inspector or welfare worker.” Alice
  Hamilton

       + =Survey= 38:533 S 15 ‘17 350w


=LE GRAND, PHILIPPE E.= New Greek comedy; with an introd. by J: Williams
White. *$4.50 Putnam 882 17-21776

  “Professor Legrand’s ‘Daos, tableau de la comédie grecque pendant la
  période dite nouvelle’ appeared in 1910 and immediately commanded the
  favorable consideration of classical scholars. Now Mr James Loeb, who
  had already translated Decharme’s ‘Euripides and the spirit of his
  dramas’ (1905) and Croiset’s ‘Aristophanes and the political parties
  of Athens’ (1909), has put us still further in his debt by providing
  an English version of Legrand as the concluding member of a trilogy of
  French works dealing with the history of ancient drama. ... With the
  idea of securing the attention of a wider public, not a little which
  would be of interest primarily to specialists has been omitted in the
  present edition. The translator’s preface states that the selection of
  passages for omission was made by the French author and that the bulk
  has thus been reduced by almost one-third.”—Class J

  “Between the author and the translator every effort has been made to
  recommend this book to the general reader without taking away any part
  of its accuracy or its importance to the scholastic world.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 11 ‘17 900w

  “One would be greatly mistaken if he concluded that the present
  version were rendered altogether suitable for the general reader, for
  Greek and Latin words, phrases, and sentences are left standing in the
  text with such frequency as to present a serious obstacle to all but
  the classically trained. ... It would have added considerably to the
  value of the book if the author or translator could have brought the
  bibliographical references quite up to date. ... I have tested the
  translation at numerous points and have found it uniformly
  accurate. ... The original edition had no index, but Professor Capps
  has supervised the compilation of an extensive index for the
  translation. ... The French edition was competently reviewed by
  Professor Prescott in Classical Philology, V (1910), 377ff.” R. C.
  Flickinger

       + =Class J= 13:77 O ‘17 1350w

  “Although Legrand’s book is unquestionably the best available
  description of New comedy, it is at times tedious reading, in its
  English form, for the general student of literature. It is often
  unnecessarily profuse in arraying examples of a given phase of comedy;
  the French author’s style of exposition is sometimes clumsily
  mechanical; and in general a clear succinct statement of the essential
  features of content and form, described from the standpoint of a
  modern reader of ancient comedy, would serve much better the needs of
  the audience to whom Mr Loeb addresses his translation.” H: W.
  Prescott

     + — =Class Philol= 12:442 O ‘17 220w

  “This book will be not only indispensable to the conscientious student
  of literary history, but of genuine interest to the intelligent
  general reader who might be repelled by the mass of technical
  material, wisely omitted in this case, which so many writers on
  classical subjects seem to think it ignominious to spare him.” E. D.
  Perry

       + =Educ R= 55:73 Ja ‘18 900w

  “The ‘Daos’ of Prof. Legrand, which Mr Loeb now gives us in an
  excellent version, has not the characteristic French gift of brilliant
  generalisation. It is rather a book which appeals to the main trend of
  American scholarship, which is to gather up laboriously an infinite
  amount of small detail. ... It will be a bit stiff for the general
  reader who is in view, for it is thickly spread with the names of
  plays, which are usually fragments of plays, and dramatis personæ.”

       + =Sat R= 123:578 Je 23 ‘17 1350w

  “M. Legrand is happy alike in his opportunity and in the use that he
  has made of it. ... To the general reader the omissions are no loss,
  while Mr Loeb’s English version shows that he himself is a master of
  the art which he has done so much to encourage.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p220 My 10 ‘17 2150w


=LEIGHOU, ROBERT BENJAMIN.= Chemistry of materials of the machine and
building industries. il *$3 McGraw 660 17-11589

  “A text-book for technical schools considering from the standpoint of
  the user the chemistry of water, fuels, refractory materials, iron and
  steel, nonferrous materials and alloys, foundry sands, building
  stones, lime and gypsum products, cement, clay and its products,
  paints, varnishes, lubricants, glue, rubber, insulating materials,
  etc.” (Cleveland) The author is associate professor of chemistry in
  the Carnegie institute of technology.

  “The bibliographical footnotes and the lists of books and periodical
  references at the chapter endings make this an excellent reference for
  both the technical and the public library.”

       + =Bul N Y Public Library= 21:483 Jl ‘17 80w

         =Cleveland= p113 S ‘17 50w

  “There is a curious admixture of the scientific and the popular
  methods of treatment. The references are many and interesting, though
  it is to be doubted whether the technical student will be other than
  bewildered by their number, or the user of materials, seeking detailed
  information, will be less than exasperated by the glossing of facts
  indicated by their unceasing recurrence.”

     + — =Engin News-Rec= 78:603 Je 21 ‘17 150w

  “Intended for students who have a knowledge of elementary general
  chemistry. ... An excellent reference for both the technical and the
  public library.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p4 Ap ‘17 90w

  “Useful work, including a wide range of materials and giving concise
  information much of which is not easily available elsewhere.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:668 O ‘17 90w

         =Pratt= p23 O ‘17 40w


=LEONARD, MARY FINLEY.= Ways of Jane; a story with which the wise and
prudent have no concern. *$1.25 (2c) Duffield 17-8350

  This is the story of Jane and her friends on Sycamore street and of
  certain other people who live in the more aristocratic Kenton place.
  Jane is seven years old and she lives with Angela, her aunt, who is
  young and lovely and who writes reviews of books to help with the
  family living. Jane has a part in the reviewing, too, placing large
  blue penciled R’s on the paper jacket of each book as it leaves
  Angela’s hands. Jane’s best friend is Miss Goldie, the little
  dressmaker who shares her belief in fairies and ogres. Her next best
  friend is David. David is a young man who lives in Kenton place, but
  Jane does not recognize class distinctions and this does not interfere
  with their friendship. There are other pleasant people in the story
  and before the end of it Jane’s faith in fairies, yes, and in ogres,
  too, is vindicated.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:404 Je ‘17

  “A very slight, rather pleasant and somewhat long-winded little
  story.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:218 Je 3 ‘17 140w

  “Although Jane is a juvenile, the book is not.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 180w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:158 My ‘17 40w


=LEONARD, STERLING ANDRUS.= English composition as a social problem.
(Riverside educational monographs) *70c (2c) Houghton 808 17-5148

  The idea that lies back of this monograph is expressed by Dr Suzzallo
  in his Editor’s introduction: “Most self-expression is for the purpose
  of social communication. We express ourselves in the presence of other
  people to gain appreciation or stimulation and to influence and
  control others. Our whole use of language has a social setting.” The
  author has worked out this idea in a plan for composition teaching in
  grades and high school. Four chapters discuss: The sources of
  composition projects in child-activities; The social group as an agent
  in expressional development; The organization of ideas; Evolution and
  attainment of expressional standards.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:294 Ap ‘17

  “Stimulating, somewhat technical.”

       + =Cleveland= p72 My ‘17 70w

       + =Dial= 62:316 Ap 5 ‘17 180w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:46 Mr ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:646 O ‘17 60w

         =Pratt= p17 O ‘17 60w

  Reviewed by E. F. Geyer and R. L. Lyman

       + =School R= 25:606 O ‘17 90w


=LESLIE, SHANE.= Celt and the world. *$1.25 (3½c) Scribner 940 17-7029

  The present war is termed a Teutonic family split. The real point at
  issue is, Which of the two imperial branches of the Teutonic family
  shall rule the sea. The theme of the book is the relation of Celt and
  Teuton in history, with special reference of course to the relation of
  England and Ireland. Between Germany and Ireland, there can be little
  in common is the author’s conclusion. “The fortunes of Ireland are
  with the Anglo-Celtic empire, though the reactionary English element
  has by unwisdom obscured the path.” Contents: The Aryans and their
  religion; Celt and Teuton; The conversion of the Celt; The holy Aryan
  empire; The Aryan dispersion; A view of Irish history; The Teutonic
  family split.

  “Not only from the standpoint of history is his book interesting, but
  he has built up an argument which is certainly thought-provoking.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p14 Ap 7 ‘17 220w

  “Though entertainingly written and abounding in literary charm, the
  study will prove a disappointment to most readers. They will naturally
  expect an illuminating study of the influence of one of the world’s
  great races on its general trend of events, but they will find instead
  an opportunist brief born of the present war.”

         =Cleveland= p81 Je ‘17 80w (Reprinted from America)

  “Pre-supposes a ‘well-read’ reader and a receptive mind. To many the
  sketch of Irish history will be the most interesting thing in the
  book; and the praise heaped upon the Celtic hero, Daniel O’Connell,
  will find few critics. Mr Leslie surely knows his subject.”

       + =Cath World= 105:823 S ‘17 340w

  “An essay on European development from an unusual angle—from the angle
  of a student who remains rather aloof from the achievements of the two
  imperial branches of the Teutonic stock—the German and the
  Anglo-Saxon. Mr Leslie’s ideal of European union is one from which
  Europe seems to have decisively departed—a union under the presidency
  of pope and emperor. ... Now that the dominant Aryan people, the
  Teutonic, are wasting themselves in fratricidal conflict, the menace
  of Asia becomes more positive, more immediate. That is the thesis of
  ‘The Celt and the world.’” Padraic Colum

         =Dial= 62:435 My 17 ‘17 900w

     + — =Nation= 105:73 Jl 19 ‘17 400w

  “Both learned and brilliant—a rare combination today.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:225 Je 10 ‘17 400w

         =St Louis= 15:186 Je ‘17 20w


Letters from a French hospital. *$1 (4c) Houghton 940.91 17-15442

  A series of letters written to her people at home by an English girl
  nursing in France. They range in date from July 31, 1915 to September
  17, 1916. For the most part they are concerned with the every day
  duties and routine of hospital service, but now and again there is a
  reflective sentence that reveals the writer’s character. “I never for
  a moment wanted the Boches to win, but I just can’t want them killed,”
  she writes. At another time she tells that she has just motored over
  to the Spanish frontier where she stood on the border and “looked
  longingly over into peace.”

  “American women who are looking forward to hospital service during the
  war cannot fail to be interested in these unusual letters.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:669 Je ‘17 30w

  “The letters are an interesting revelation of all the unconscious
  little heroisms that are part of the daily life near any great
  fighting front.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 220w

  “Pictures conditions similar to those described in ‘Mademoiselle
  Miss,’ and the writer displays many of the same qualities, which led
  to success despite her lack of training.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:185 Je ‘17 50w


=LETTS, WINIFRED M.= Hallow-e’en, and poems of the war. *$1.25 Dutton
821

  “Most of the war poetry has had in it more or less of the clangor of
  battle, the exaltation of spirit that fills the soldier at the firing
  line, the gay comradeship of the march. But these poems are mostly
  from the point of view of the home-staying ones and are full of the
  tender reverence of these for the soldier fighting and dying, of
  compassion for the bereaved at home, and of admiration for the courage
  with which they bear their losses and sorrows.”—N Y Times

  “A somewhat different touch marks these war poems in comparison with
  most of the war poetry the last two or three years have brought
  forth—a touch that perhaps can be best described as the priestly touch
  of understanding and compassion and healing.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:234 Je 17 ‘17 530w

  “Contains many fine poems, several of which have received praise on
  previous publication in English magazines. ‘Hallow-e’en, 1915,’ ‘He
  prayed,’ and ‘The spires of Oxford,’ have a rare quality and deserve a
  place among the best expressions of the war spirit in poetry.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:105 Jl ‘17 50w

  “Miss Letts never strikes a wrong note or plucks needlessly at our
  heartstrings, and if there is little gaiety in her new volume, there
  is no wantoning with sorrow.”

       + =Spec= 118:76 Ja 20 ‘17 200w


=LETTS, WINIFRED M.= Spires of Oxford, and other poems. *$1.25 Dutton
821 17-24170

  “The majority of the poems in this volume were published in 1916 under
  the title ‘Hallow-e’en and poems of the war.’ The verdict of the
  public, as shown by continual requests for permission to republish, is
  that ‘The spires of Oxford’ is the most important poem in the
  volume—and therefore in issuing a new edition with several new poems,
  we bow to this verdict and give ‘The spires of Oxford’ its place in
  the forefront of the volume.” (Publishers’ note) Contents: Poems of
  the war; Ad mortuum; Miscellanea.

  “They have a felicity of expression, variety, distinction, a touch of
  dramatic fervor and a genuineness of feeling which make them
  appealing.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:86 D ‘17

  “These war poems one may read through with responsive interest, but
  with no keen poignancy, except on one occasion. That exception is in
  the verses called ‘What reward?’ ... The poems in the other two groups
  of Miss Letts’s volume show her, I think, in a better poetic
  light. ... The work is always clear, sometimes vivid, always cleanly
  wrought.” W. S. B.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 19 ‘17 500w

       + =Cath World= 106:402 D ‘17 90w

  “Contains some poems on the war which we should be sorry to have
  missed.”

       + =Ind= 92:63 O 6 ‘17 120w

  “There are many noble war-poems in Miss Letts’s book, but the part of
  it which impresses us most is that containing poems personal in theme.
  Miss Letts’s chief claim—and a strong claim it is—upon the affections
  of those who care greatly for poetry is the group of poems called ‘Ad
  mortuum.’”

       + =Lit D= 55:34 O 6 ‘17 850w

  “They are primarily poems—buoyant with beauty, full of fresh visions
  of loveliness, warm and human and sweet. The war poems are dignified
  and reveal an occasional flash of understanding that is all too
  unusual in war verse.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p15 O 21 ‘17 470w

       + =N Y Times= 22:566 D 16 ‘17 230w

  “The poem from which the book takes its title is an outstanding
  example of war verse, notable for its simplicity and feeling. ...
  Almost equally affecting is ‘Halloween, 1915.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 24 ‘17 280w


=LEUBA, JAMES HENRY.= Belief in God and immortality; a psychological,
anthropological and statistical study. *$2 (2c) Sherman, French & co.
218 17-54

  The author says, “In an earlier book [’A psychological study of
  religion,’ 1912] I have considered the origin, the nature, the
  function, and the future of the belief in what I have called
  ‘personal’ gods. The present volume is a similar study of the belief
  in personal immortality.” Part 1 treats of The two conceptions of
  immortality: their origins, their different characteristics and the
  attempted demonstration of the truth of the modern conception. This
  part also includes an examination of the studies of the Society of
  psychical research. Part 2 presents a statistical study of the belief
  in a personal God and in personal immortality in the United States.
  Part 3 treats of the present utility of the beliefs in personal
  immortality and in a personal God. The author is professor of
  psychology at Bryn Mawr college.

  “The author presents a somewhat detailed study of the belief in God
  and a future life as it appears in primitive religions and in the
  modern world of educated men and women. The treatment is extremely
  suggestive and illuminating. The conclusion is that these beliefs,
  having in the minds of people today little or no relation to the
  conduct of life, may well be discarded in favor of more practical
  moral teachings. The book deserves careful reading on the part of all
  religious and social workers.” Irving King

       + =Am J Soc= 23:129 Jl ‘17 550w

  “It is a pleasure to find, as one does in Leuba’s work, a really fresh
  presentation and something like an original point of view. Professor
  Leuba has put in his debt all those who have the welfare of religion
  at heart by showing them that the situation is really much more
  serious than most of them had supposed.” J. B. Pratt

       + =Am J Theol= 21:629 O ‘17 1650w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:425 Jl ‘17

       + =Ath= p94 F ‘17 100w

  “Rarely, if ever, has the distinction between two quite different
  conceptions of personal immortality been so successfully elaborated.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 24 ‘17 150w

  “There are few subjects as to which statistics can be more
  meaningless, and that is saying a great deal.”

       — =Educ R= 54:316 O ‘17 40w

  “The book is exceedingly interesting, but far from convincing, when
  one realizes that the conclusions are based merely upon questionnaires
  sent to interested persons of the college world.”

         =Ind= 90:439 Je 2 ‘17 50w

  “The reader of this study can but be impressed with the fact that in
  this book is discussed with the fair spirit of critical inquiry a
  subject that in recent literature has been even unscrupulously
  handled.” J. R. Kantor

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:396 Ap ‘17 500w

         =Nation= 104:496 Ap 26 ‘17 350w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:41 Mr ‘17


=LEVI, N.= Jan Smuts; being a character sketch of Gen. the Hon. J. C.
Smuts, K. C., M. L. A., minister of defence, Union of South Africa. il
*$2.50 Longmans 17-15584

  “General Smuts, leader of the British forces against the Germans in
  German Southeast Africa, has gone to England as a member of the
  British Imperial war cabinet. ... He is one of the really interesting
  personalities of this far-flung war. And in a book, written by a South
  African neighbor, presumably for South African readers in the first
  place, and then for Britons in general, the author of the present
  volume has offered a real contribution to the knowledge of the world
  at large. ‘Jan Smuts’ is, as the title page states, a character sketch
  rather than a biography. It is written with great simplicity, out of a
  heart-felt admiration, with the utmost sympathy and the most intimate
  knowledge both of the man himself and of the circumstance and the
  events of his life.”—N Y Times

  “The work gives one the flavor of South Africa. It is not only the
  racy English idiom enlivened with fresh South African phrases, nor the
  imagination that loves to play with odd figures of speech drawn from
  the author’s own experience; it is the insight into the Boers, the
  sympathetic insight of a man who has seen a wider world only to
  estimate his own better. Few men in their lifetimes have been so
  fortunate in their biographers as General Smuts.” Wallace Notestein

       + =Am Hist R= 23:434 Ja ‘18 450w

     + — =Dial= 63:348 O 11 ‘17 330w

  “Seems to lack those picturesque features and that broader humanity
  with which we associate General Botha.”

     + — =Ind= 91:293 Ag 25 ‘17 150w

  “It is exceedingly interesting. ... The last sentence is all the more
  interesting in connection with a statement quoted from A. G. Gardiner
  of the London Daily News that Jan Smuts is ‘the most considerable
  figure in Greater Britain.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:200 My 20 ‘17 520w

  “His biography is doubly worth while; it describes both an interesting
  individual character and the recent development of South African
  economic, social, and political conditions.”

       + =Outlook= 116:232 Je 6 ‘17 70w

 *       =Spec= 118:365 Mr 24 ‘17 1500w

  “His style is dreadful. ... Yet Mr Levi has his merits. He is
  ingenuous and kindly. His knowledge of facts is accurate, his judgment
  of political opponents not usually overharsh, his reverence and
  affection for General Smuts himself very genuine and very obvious. His
  book, at least, comes pat to the moment. ... People in this country
  might do much worse than get it and read it. It will, at least help
  them to understand the elements of South African politics and the
  position of the Botha government.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p140 Mr 22 ‘17 430w


=LEVINE, ISAAC DON.= Russian revolution. il *$1 (2½c) Harper 947
17-15056

  This work by the foreign news editor of the New York Tribune has
  chapters devoted to: A century of struggle for freedom; Russian
  autocracy and the great war; Russian democracy and the great war; The
  birth of social Russia; The Duma and social Russia; The
  democratization of the army; The rule of Goremykin; The dark forces;
  Working for Prussianism; A traitor to democracy; The crisis; Rasputin
  and Protopopov; The revolution; The fall of czarism; The new Russia;
  The future. Summarizing the contents, the author says, “The first six
  chapters of this book give a general survey of the forces that
  underlay the revolution. The following six chapters deal with the
  events in the thirty months preceding it. The last four chapters cover
  the revolution proper and its possibilities.”

  “Very interesting and compact.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:445 Jl ‘17

         =Ath= p530 O ‘17 200w

  “A clear-cut and sober analysis.” Abraham Yarmolinsky

       + =Bookm= 46:483 D ‘17 100w

  “It is a thrilling story and it is so well presented on the whole that
  one forgets the aberrations of the author’s English style.” N. H. D.

   + + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 850w

  “Presents information which is not easily obtainable elsewhere.”

       + =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 40w

         =Dial= 64:36 Ja 3 ‘18 90w

       + =Ind= 91:31 Jl 7 ‘17 150w

  “Although he has leavened the mere literal record with competent and
  sometimes illuminating interpretation, Mr Levine does not attempt to
  give more than a hasty journalistic summary. Yet even in so slight a
  book the author is compelled to devote over two-thirds his space to an
  analysis of the governmental disorganization, chicanery and almost
  open treason which made the drama of March, 1917, inevitable.”

       + =New Repub= 12:56 Ag 11 ‘17 600w

  “The book as a whole is fascinating. But one chapter of it, because of
  its unusual character, may be mentioned, that dealing with Rasputin.”
  Frank Macdonald

       + =N Y Call= p14 Jl 22 ‘17 600w

  “Tells in crisp, journalistic style, and with a full sense of its
  amazingness, this latest romance of human freedom. The author draws
  from a full and deep knowledge of Russia; he is able to sum up the
  salient facts leading gradually and surely to the revolution without
  wasting time or losing the reader’s attention.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:221 Je 10 ‘17 1500w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:679 O ‘17 70w

       + =Pratt= p44 O ‘17 10w

  “By all odds the most journalistic and vivid of the presentations of
  the motives and forces that are energizing the Russian national
  movement. ... Mr Levine’s terse and graphic narrative of Petrograd’s
  days of transition from absolutism to modern democracy can hardly be
  surpassed.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:101 Jl ‘17 250w

  “Much of what he says should be common knowledge, and if it is not his
  book should help in making it so.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 26 ‘17 100w

  “The personalities of Sturmer, Rasputin, Protopopov, the Tsaritsa, and
  other pro-Germans are clearly brought out.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p413 Ag 30 ‘17 950w


=LEWIN, PERCY EVANS.= German road to the East. *$2.50 Doran 327.4 (Eng
ed 17-9488)

  “An account of the ‘Drang nach Osten’ and of Teutonic aims in the Near
  and Middle East. It discusses the political and economic causes which
  underlie the Eastern question, the problems of the Balkan states and
  Russia, the position of Persia and the probable result of British
  occupation of Bagdad.”—A L A Bkl

  “Interesting in connection with Naumann’s ‘Central Europe’ (Booklist
  13:247 My ‘17) and Gibbons’ ‘New map of Europe’ (Booklist 11:258 F
  ‘15). Well documented with a selected classed bibliography (8p).”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:445 Jl ‘17

  “Mr Evans Lewin’s book lacks the personal knowledge and individual
  feeling that give originality to Sir Thomas Holdich’s writing. Its
  strongest feature is its bibliography, and, indeed, the whole book
  smells somewhat of the lamp; yet the standpoint from which it is
  written fatally deprives it of authority and permanence. A history of
  German penetration in the Near East would be an intensely interesting
  sociological study; but Mr Lewin is not writing a history, he is
  making out a case. ... There is a great deal of excellent geographical
  analysis and solid historical information in Mr Lewin’s book.”

     – + =Ath= p24 Ja ‘17 650w

  “An excellent and painstaking study of the Berlin to Bagdad project,
  the fullest and perhaps best balanced account of Pan-Germanism, which
  has so far appeared.”

       + =Cleveland= p85 Jl ‘17 50w

  “A scholarly and important contribution to the literature of the war
  and its causes.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 S 15 ‘17 750w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:60 Ap ‘17

  “The study throughout is comprehensive and penetrating and authorities
  are given for all important statements.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:306 Ag 19 ‘17 150w

  “In this useful book Mr Lewin examines in detail the development of
  Germany’s ambitious designs on the Near East, typified in the phrase
  ‘from Berlin to Baghdad.’ Every one, we suppose, now understands the
  German desire to absorb the whole heritage of the ‘Sick man,’ but it
  is convenient to have the diplomatic and economic history of the
  German schemes during the last twenty years set forth in this readable
  form. Mr Lewin, we think, exaggerates English ignorance of
  pan-Germanism.”

     + — =Spec= 117:706 D 2 ‘16 250w

  “Mr Lewin is already known by his useful volume on the Germans in
  Africa; he has many qualifications for the task he has undertaken; he
  has great industry and wide reading, and, in particular, has a very
  thorough understanding of British colonial aims and interests. This
  latter quality is shown in the volume before us; by far the most
  valuable chapters are those on Asia Minor, and particularly on
  Persia. ... While, therefore, the book is of great value as regards
  the events in Asia, for an explanation of the real influences and
  character of German policy at home it is inferior to other recent
  works such as those of Dr Rose, or Dr Prothero’s very useful pamphlet,
  ‘German policy before the war.’”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p482 O 12 ‘16 2000w


=LEWINSKI-CORWIN, EDWARD HENRY.= Political history of Poland. il $3
Polish book importing co., 83 2d av., N.Y. 943.8 17-19703

  “The author has sketched the history of the Polish state from its
  early beginnings to its disintegration, and has followed the fortunes
  of its scattered remnants down to the present day. The chapter on The
  Polish question and the great war contains information on the Polish
  legions and on the present attitude of Polish patriots towards Russia,
  Germany, and Austria not easily obtainable elsewhere. ... Dr
  Lewinski-Corwin believes that a free and republican Russia will make
  the reconstruction of Poland, as an independent state, in
  confederation with Lithuania and Ruthenia, a political
  possibility.”—Nation

         =A L A Bkl= 14:54 N ‘17

  “A chapter on the Polish legions and the attitude of the ‘patriots’
  toward Austria, Germany and Russia is illuminating and gives
  information not easily accessible elsewhere.”

       + =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 60w

  “The last two chapters, however,—dealing with ‘constitutional Russia
  and the Poles’ and ‘the Polish question and the great war,’—have
  decided value, not alone because they bring the story up to date, but
  because they show an unusually keen insight into the perplexities of
  the contemporary Polish problem.” F: A. Ogg

     + — =Dial= 63:583 D 6 ‘17 670w

         =Lit D= 55:39 S 15 ‘17 280w

  “Fully familiar with his subject. ... The interest of the volume is
  enhanced by numerous illustrations. ... The book might have gained in
  value by more careful proof-reading.”

     + — =Nation= 105:298 S 13 ‘17 240w

  “A great deal of space is given to the many efforts of Poland to free
  itself from Russian serfdom.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:330 S 9 ‘17 370w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:679 O ‘17

  “If due allowance is made for these limitations, Dr Lewinski-Corwin’s
  book takes its place as the best and most authoritative brief history
  of Poland now on the market.” C. J. H. Hayes

     + — =Survey= 39:298 D 8 ‘17 800w


=LEWIS, BURDETTE GIBSON.= Offender and his relations to law and society.
(Harper’s modern science ser.) il *$2 (1½c) Harper 364 17-10887

  A work on prison reform and modern correctional methods by the
  Commissioner of correction for New York city. The book is made up of
  two parts, the first, Society and the offender, is a study of methods
  actually in use in various institutions. There are chapters on: The
  court and the offender; Classification of the offender; Probation and
  parole; The indeterminate sentence; Autocratic government and
  discipline; Other systems of government and discipline, etc. Part 2
  deals with the prevention of crime and considers the different social
  forces which can be used to that end. There are several appendixes
  presenting interesting matter relating to prison practice, including
  among other items a Plan for the rational treatment of women convicted
  in the courts of the County of New York prepared by Katharine B.
  Davis.

  “The book is open to criticism because of the inadequate development
  of part 2 on the prevention of crime. The common-sense point of view,
  the thoroughly socialized legal attitude, and the new illustrative
  material from the author’s experience are the strong points.” E. S.
  Bogardus

     + — =Am J Soc= 23:553 Ja ‘18 180w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:428 Jl ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 18 ‘17 550w

       + =Cleveland= p108 S ‘17 60w

  “Neither reactionary nor sentimental.”

       + =Ind= 91:292 Ag 25 ‘17 120w

  “The great merit of this book is the humanity and intimacy, the
  familiarity of detail and truthfulness, with which it treats of four
  complicated aspects of society’s dealing with the wrongdoer.”

       + =Nation= 104:734 Je 21 ‘17 1700w

  “Mr Lewis combines idealism with common sense. ... The volume is sound
  in its philosophy, shows in the author both a practical familiarity
  with present methods and an intelligent reading of history and is to
  be heartily commended to all those who are interested in the problem.”

       + =Outlook= 116:451 Jl 18 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:533 Je ‘17 100w

         =Pratt= p10 O ‘17 20w

  “It is refreshing to find an administrator so alive to the modern
  scientific study of the individual delinquent and to the need for
  individual treatment. Mr Lewis’s approach to his subject is for the
  most part liberal and scientific; his information goes far beyond the
  files of his own department. ... The book is not as fluent in style as
  Wines’ ‘Punishment and reformation,’ but it supersedes that volume for
  the student of penology today.” W. D. Lane

       + =Survey= 38:531 S 15 ‘17 600w


=LEWIS, SINCLAIR.= Innocents. il *$1.25 (3c) Harper 17-24286

  The author calls this “a story for lovers,” “a tale for people who
  still read Dickens and clip out spring poetry, and love old people and
  children.” (Introd.) It is the story of the later years of Mr and Mrs
  Seth Appleby, who, though they were born in New York city, and had
  lived there upward of sixty years, were “rustic as a meadow-ringed
  orchard.” After their daughter has married a prosperous druggist in a
  small New York town, “Father,” who has clerked for many years in
  Pilking’s shoestore on Sixth avenue, decides to give up his job, and,
  with the help of “Mother,” opens a tea-room in an old farm house on
  the cliffs at Grimsby Head, Cape Cod. Why the venture fails, how the
  old couple take to the open road and how they finally make a place,
  and that no mean one, for themselves in Lipsittsville, Indiana;
  instead of living with their eminently respectable daughter who is
  always trying to make them over, is sympathetically told by Mr Lewis.

  “An entertaining and amusing variant of the typical love story.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:60 N ‘17

  “It is in spite of his ingenuity, not because of it, that the reader
  keeps on believing in Father and Mother, the devoted and the
  irrepressible.” H. W. Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 46:340 N ‘17 170w

  “The characterization rings true, but the adventures, especially the
  long tramp from city to city, are pleasantly improbable.”

     + — =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 60w

  “The facile smartness of phrases, the essential flimsiness, of Mr
  Lewis’s latest book presents a spectacle made all the sadder by the
  traces of a better self revealed in it.”

     – + =Dial= 63:531 N 22 ‘17 550w

  “We wonder if the publishers really agree with the notice-writer that
  the book is ‘a tender romance of an American Darby and Joan?’
  Sentimental farce would come nearer the mark.”

       — =Nation= 105:540 N 15 ‘17 260w

  “Preposterous but rather amusing story.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:sup16 N 17 ‘17 140w

  “In some of his former stories Mr Lewis has shown a peculiar
  understanding of the gray, limited lives of the small work people of a
  big city and of the meaning to them of their possible pleasures,
  dreams, and temperamental expressions. In ‘The innocents’ he gives
  full rein to this faculty, with the result that the intimate and
  full-length picture of Mr and Mrs Seth Appleby, otherwise ‘Father’ and
  ‘Mother,’ is very touching, very charming, and so simple and true in
  all its essentials that even when the story is at its most audaciously
  romantic pitch it is still plausible.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:365 S 30 ‘17 600w

  “The story as a whole is a delightful picture of mutual love and
  courage, that floats like a fresh breeze over the reader’s
  consciousness, jaded with the conventional romances of the day.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 23 ‘17 310w


=LEWIS, SINCLAIR.= The job. *$1.35 (2c) Harper 17-6323

  A story of modern business and of a woman’s place in business life.
  Una Golden, who comes from Panama, Pa., to New York, is an ordinary
  girl, with blond hair and eye-glasses. The story covers ten years of
  her life, from 1905 to 1915, from the age of twenty-five to
  thirty-five. In that time she studies at a “commercial college,” holds
  various jobs, and lives the life of a working girl, in boarding house,
  “home,” and light-housekeeping flat. Midway in this period she finds
  the job getting on her nerves, and takes the way of escape offered,
  marriage. But marriages made from that motive start with a handicap,
  and Una’s is a failure. She returns to the job with new resolution,
  determined to conquer. She does, becomes a successful business woman,
  and then begins to consider the possibility of a second marriage in
  which conflicting claims of home and a career are both to be
  satisfied.

  “Some of the episodes of her unfortunate marriage may be considered
  too frank and sordid but they are not the main interest, while the
  story leaves one with more confidence in the women who are beginning
  to realize the possibilities of ‘the job.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:355 My ‘17

  “What justifies the book, in the end, is not its ‘idea,’ or its
  incidental cleverness, which is notable, but its portrait of a woman.
  Una Golden is—herself.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 405:316 My ‘17 750w

  “To say that Mr Lewis’s novel is aggressively modern is not to say
  more than truth. It expresses the American spirit of this very day and
  hour.” E. F. E.

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 10 ‘17 1400w

         =Dial= 62:313 Ap 5 ‘17 140w

  “One may discern here a sermon preached, a plot more or less arranged.
  But there is no escaping the sincerity and originality of the central
  portrait. As a person, theories apart, Una Golden rings true.”

     + — =Nation= 104:433 Ap 12 ‘17 470w

  “Sinclair Lewis has one attribute of genius—sympathetic insight. ...
  He has not only made a woman who works for her living the central
  figure of his story, he has insisted on doing so without
  sentimentality or melodrama or false pathos. He has kept the spotlight
  of the novelist on her without giving her a spotlight-life.” F. H.

     + — =New Repub= 10:234 Mr 24 ‘17 1250w

  “The story of the girl who for one reason or another goes into
  business has been told many times; but very, very seldom indeed with
  even one-half the convincingness which this author has managed to give
  to his history of Una Golden. ... Sane, generous, well balanced, above
  all, real, it interprets by presenting this world as it is.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:82 Mr 11 ‘17 1050w

  “The story is a serious, if gloomy, study. It has no light phases. ...
  In its main details the story rings true, considering the character
  concerned, but it is unpleasant.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 27 ‘17 450w

  “The story reads like a true one but is hardly pleasing enough to
  attract the ordinary novel-reader.”

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:126 Ap ‘17 70w


=LIBBY, WALTER.= Introduction to the history of science. il *$1.50 (2c)
Houghton 509 17-8227

  “This book is intended as a simple introduction, taking advantage of
  the interests of youth of from seventeen to twenty-two years or age
  (and their intellectual compeers) in order to direct their attention
  to the story of the development of the sciences. ... It is a
  psychological introduction, having the mental capacity of a certain
  class of readers always in view, rather than a logical introduction.”
  (Preface) Contents: Science and practical needs—Egypt and Babylonia;
  The influence of abstract thought—Greece: Aristotle; Scientific theory
  subordinated to application—Rome: Vitruvius; The continuity of
  science—the medieval church and the Arabs; The classification of the
  sciences—Francis Bacon; Scientific method—Gilbert, Galileo, Harvey,
  Descartes; Coöperation in science—the Royal society, etc. The closing
  chapter is a discussion of science and democratic culture. The author
  is professor of the history of science in the Carnegie institute of
  technology, Pittsburgh.

  “A little book on a big subject in excellent English. [The relations
  of science] to other fields of man’s life—education, war, religion,
  industry, travel, philosophy, art, ethics, and democracy—are well
  touched upon, and the closing chapter deals chiefly with Matthew
  Arnold and Nietzsche. It contains many interesting facts that will be
  new to most persons, and also a number of passages that set one
  thinking. Many history teachers might broaden their view of the past
  by perusing this volume.” Lynn Thorndike

   + + — =Am Hist R= 23:125 O ‘17 720w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:10 O ‘17

         =Cleveland= p108 S ‘17 20w

       + =Dial= 62:487 My 31 ‘17 600w

  “Breathes on every page the tolerant, generous, objective spirit of
  science. But Dr Libby is no narrow champion of scientific as opposed
  to literary culture, and he recommends systematic teaching of the
  sciences in relation both to the daily work and to their historical
  and cultural antecedents.’ It is on account of its broadening and
  stimulating cultural influence that this fine work of Dr Libby’s is to
  be recommended. It should find a place, if not always in the
  curriculum, certainly in the library, of every high school, normal
  school, and college in the land.” Cephas Guillet

       + =Educ R= 54:192 S ‘17 600w

       + =Educ R= 54:531 D ‘17 80w

  “We have long needed a systematically organized and clearly written
  history of science for the college student and the layman who is not
  taking active part in the development of any one of the sciences.
  Professor Libby’s new book is probably the first contribution in this
  field.”

       + =El School J= 17:610 Ap ‘17 350w

  “Professor Libby has divided his purpose in such a way as to obscure
  and to break the thread of his subject. He, apparently, tries to
  compress into one small volume a résumé of the history of all the
  sciences from the earliest times. In addition to this almost hopeless
  task, he wishes to attract and to influence the youth by showing the
  nobility of science. He also wishes to exalt the national spirit, and
  he does it by devoting whole chapters to Franklin and Langley, which
  compels him to compress or to omit many of the really great
  achievements in science. As a textbook, the work is of value in spite
  of this confusion. In the first place, there are almost no others
  available, and in addition Professor Libby has been accurate and his
  style is readable.”

     + — =Nation= 105:274 S 6 ‘17 500w

  “One of the most effective pieces of scientific popularization it has
  ever been my good fortune to read. Prof. Libby has a power of
  presenting clearly ideas often difficult from their inherent
  abstractness that has rarely been equalled save by men of genius like
  Huxley and Galton. He has obviously an intimate acquaintance with his
  subject, and he has a singular success in communicating his
  enthusiasm. His book is, on the whole, conceived in admirable
  perspective. It has exactly the right amount of biographical material
  to give it the genuine touch of living personality.” H. J. L.

       + =New Repub= 12:23 Ag 4 ‘17 2000w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:76 My ‘17 130w

  “With an undercurrent of philosophical speculation, the treatment is
  rather biographical, typical scientists being selected to illustrate
  the attitude and the methods of the scientists, as well as the
  principles developed and applied.” B. C. Gruenberg

       + =N Y Call= p15 S 16 ‘17 270w

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p19 Jl ‘17 60w

         =St Louis= 15:361 O ‘17 40w


=LIDDELL, ROBERT SCOTLAND.= On the Russian front. il *8s 6d Simpkin,
London 940.91 (Eng ed 16-15304)

  “Mr Liddell saw the great Russian retreat of last summer in a double
  capacity: he was a member of the seventh group of Polish Red cross
  volunteers, and also the correspondent of the Sphere; that is to say,
  he took part in the events described in the book, and he recorded them
  before his impressions became blunted. ... It is a depressing story
  that Mr Liddell has to tell—a story of crippled men, of gutted
  buildings, and of refugees, flying one with his drawing-room suite on
  a cart, another with a couple of canaries in a cage, several with
  nothing but some potted plants. But the Russian soldier is not
  depressed; his comment is ‘Neechevo’—‘It is nothing.’”—The Times
  [London] Lit Sup

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:168 N ‘16

  “Every page in this book was written amid the routine of danger, a
  battle thundering quite close at hand, and a drama of mingled sweat
  and blood and dirt coming with the stricken, whose uncomplaining
  courage was an awful monotony of silent anguish.”

         =Sat R= 122:299 S 23 ‘16 1200w

  Reviewed by the Earl of Cromer

         =Spec= 117:551 N 4 ‘16 1600w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p317 Jl 6 ‘16 650w


=LIEBKNECHT, KARL PAUL AUGUST FRIEDRICH.= Militarism. *$1 (2c) Huebsch
172.4 17-26892

  A fearless arraignment of autocracy which cost Liebknecht his freedom
  and resulted in the suppression of his book. It is a clear statement
  of the principles and convictions of the man who has so courageously
  led the struggle against militarism in Germany. He points out that
  militarism in its four-fold development is the offspring of
  capitalism; “militarism for abroad,” navalism, colonial militarism and
  “militarism for home.” He shows that all of the policies of the
  militaristic system serve the exploiting interests of the ruling
  classes of capitalism instead of furthering economic development in
  conformity with the duties and interests of civilization. Militarism
  obstructs class consciousness, turns the army into a handy, docile
  effective tool, while distorting the reason and narcotizing the soul.
  Thruout the discussion the point of view of the proletariat is kept—of
  the under-dog against whom the army is a weapon along the path of
  economic struggle.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:76 D ‘17

  “Herr Liebknecht assails the past record of militarism socially,
  politically, economically, historically, and statistically, with true
  German thoroughness.” C. H. P. Thurston

       + =Bookm= 46:290 N ‘17 40w

         =Dial= 64:115 Ja 31 ‘18 620w

       + =New Repub= 13:sup18 N 17 ‘17 160w

  “The book is chiefly of historical interest, since the world war is so
  changing world ideas. ... But the book is interesting and timely for
  the light it throws on the pre-war Germany and for the illumination it
  makes of the character of Karl Liebknecht.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:395 O 14 ‘17 900w

  “The fact that Dr Liebknecht’s ‘Militarism’ was suppressed and the
  author put in prison for his daring criticism of the German military
  system would assure it a cordial welcome in the United States even
  were the book not so abundantly able to stand on its own bottom. ...
  Yet be warned that Dr Liebknecht measures us along with other
  countries and finds us, well, not absolute perfection. He lists us and
  our methods along with other nations and their methods with a horrid
  impersonality that intimates that we are just like other folks.” M. A.
  Hopkins

       + =Pub W= 92:811 S 15 ‘17 850w

  “While the book perhaps overemphasizes the part played by the class
  struggle in creating modern armaments, its words deserve the most
  careful heeding.” H: Neumann

     + — =Survey= 39:471 Ja 26 ‘18 630w

  “Interesting at the present time, but not essential in small
  libraries.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:29 Ja ‘18 50w


=LINCOLN, ABRAHAM.= Uncollected letters; now first brought together by
Gilbert A. Tracy; with an introd. by Ida M. Tarbell. il *$2.50 Houghton
17-28895

  Three hundred letters which Lincoln wrote for the greater part from
  1858 to 1861 most of which have never been published before. Tho many
  of them are brief each has the stamp of Lincoln individuality; and
  covering, as they do, a great range of interests they furnish a
  sidelight on the character of Lincoln which no student can overlook.
  There are legal letters, letters that bear upon the period when
  Lincoln was competing with Douglas for the senatorship, and letters
  that reflect his life and relations with friends, all of them giving
  ample illustration “of his cleverness, his fairness and continued zest
  in the political game.” The collector of the letters was a clerk in
  the War department from 1863 to 1868 during which time he grew to love
  and revere the great emancipator. “Mr Tracy has crowned his life long
  devotion to Abraham Lincoln with a noble gift to the people of the
  country.”

  Reviewed by L. E. Robinson

       + =Bookm= 46:595 Ja ‘18 330w

  “In spite of the scarcity of allusions to his domestic life it is
  profitable to get such glimpses as are revealed in the collection. ...
  It must be said that a considerable portion of these letters have no
  connection with the great service and life of Lincoln, but relate to
  commonplace and routine matters. Many are not worth preserving except
  for their autographs. It is regrettable that classification and
  topical headings are lacking, though the index is complete and
  satisfactory.” H. S. K.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 O 31 ‘17 1250w

  “That many are inconsequential does not discount the value of the
  entire collection. As a whole they shed strong light upon Abraham
  Lincoln’s life.”

       + =Lit D= 55:43 D 1 ‘17 110w

       + =Nation= 105:569 N 22 ‘17 950w

  “Many of the pieces are of little moment, except that, as Miss Tarbell
  says in her preface, ‘Nothing that he wrote is without importance’”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:445 N 4 ‘17 1050w

     + — =Outlook= 117:475 N 21 ‘17 110w


=LINCOLN, JOSEPH CROSBY (JOE LINCOLN, pseud.).= Extricating Obadiah. il
*$1.50 (1½c) Appleton 17-25818

  Cape Cod, of course. A simple story scheme that runs something like
  this: Obadiah Burgess inherits a house and twelve thousand in cash. He
  had formerly been a cabin boy and had gone to sea with Captain Noah
  Newcomb. At the time of his prosperity his old captain, now retired,
  is touring Cape Cod and is laid up for motor repairs in Obadiah’s town
  of Trumet. Obadiah had indulged in a good deal of talk about his
  wealth and excited the cupidity of a dealer in antiques who begins a
  systematic and apparently successful campaign to relieve Obadiah of
  his wealth. Worried, Obadiah appeals to his old friend. After the
  captain finds that about a dozen are taking part in weaving a net
  around Obadiah he turns to a task quite similar to putting together a
  picture puzzle. He lists his pieces, gets their number, and puts them
  together to the amazement of Obadiah and the discomfort of his
  culprits.

  “Full of Cape Cod dialect and humor.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:97 D ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 50w

       + =Dial= 64:78 Ja 17 ‘18 90w

  “The author’s versatility is equal to any difficulty and he evolves
  plots, inner plots, and counter-plots. He makes impossible and
  exaggerated facts seem quite plausible.”

       + =Lit D= 55:51 D 29 ‘17 210w

  “The simple little story is familiar and commonplace but it is a
  fairly entertaining tale, nevertheless.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:484 N 18 ‘17 270w

  “Again we have racy dialogue, honest fun, and clever situations.”

       + =Outlook= 117:386 N 7 ‘17 30w

  “The plot is not a very heavy one, but who reads a Lincoln novel for
  the plot alone! One reads it for genial old tars like Captain Noah,
  for rascally old skinflints like Balaam Griggs, for Serepta Hatches,
  keeping tabs on how many times Mary Barstow’s beau calls, for salt
  water vocabularies, for glimpses of Cape Cod’s sandy marshes and for
  mental whiffs of stiff sea breezes.” R. D. Moore

       + =Pub W= 92:1374 O 20 ‘17 450w

  “In the new story there is a well-sustained plot in addition to a new
  group of familiar character types. The story is in Mr Lincoln’s best
  vein, which spells unadulterated diversion.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 350w


=LINCOLN, NATALIE SUMNER.= Nameless man. il *$1.40 Appleton 17-24163

  “Beginning with an argument about the yellow peril, this novel of
  murder and intrigue attempts to prove its actuality. Between
  California and Washington, in diplomatic circles and social life, the
  mystery runs, implicating white men as well as Japanese. And mingled
  with the adventure of seeking the fomenter of plots and murderer of
  innocent men is the never-failing love interest, as troubled as it is
  true.”—N Y Times

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:342 N ‘17 40w

  “Abundant thrills mark the progress of the tale.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 21 ‘17 160w

  “Although the facts as they are ultimately disclosed seem incredible,
  and the characters are stereotyped ones, the excitement of unraveling
  the tangled threads and of having the sport of detection keeps
  interest awake.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:414 O 21 ‘17 170w

  “If the reader dismisses the mischievous political innuendoes he may
  enjoy a diverting mystery tale.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 110w


=LINDSAY, NICHOLAS VACHEL.= Chinese nightingale, and other poems. *$1.25
Macmillan 811 17-25832

  The first collection of Mr Lindsay’s poems to appear since the “Congo”
  volume. There are five groups: The Chinese nightingale, awarded the
  Levinson prize in 1915, is alone in the first group; in the second are
  a half dozen poems under the heading, “America watching the war”; the
  third includes poems grouped under “America at war with Germany”; the
  fourth is a collection of “Tragedies, comedies and dreams”; while the
  fifth is a group of “Poem games” all of which have been successfully
  illustrated in pantomime. The aim of the poem game is to abolish
  orchestra and piano, replacing them with the natural meaning and
  cadences of English speech which, the author claims, can convey poetic
  ideas faster than musical feeling.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:121 Ja ‘18

  “Whatever Vachel Lindsay does, one feels the sincerity and the strong
  native impulse back of it. He is a vitalising force in modern poetry,
  having at once the social vision and the knowledge that it cannot be
  realized apart from beauty. Technically he has widened the outposts of
  poetry, and we may look to him to annex a still wider demesne.” J. B.
  Rittenhouse

       + =Bookm= 46:576 Ja ‘18 590w

  “It is disappointing to regard Mr Lindsay in ‘The Chinese nightingale
  and other poems,’ taking an attitude below the ‘Congo’ volume, and
  levelling, in the group, the ‘General William Booth’ column. ... In
  ‘America watching the war’ ‘The tale of the tiger tree’ finely
  illustrates the tapering of Mr Lindsay’s imaginative power into a
  mannerism; it is all here, the kind of incisive exploration in vision
  which Mr Lindsay takes to particularize a simple and impressive fact,
  but the kind of familiarity which envelopes it, takes away the thrill
  of emotion that we do feel in ‘The Chinese nightingale,’ and in the
  poems of the two earlier volumes. Mr Lindsay can never fail to be
  interesting, seductively arresting, exhilarating, in his own strange
  and individual way. ... The new art, or combination of arts, which Mr
  Lindsay has devised in ‘The poem games,’ is, apart from ‘The Chinese
  nightingale,’ the most interesting feature of this new book.” W. S. B.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 3 ‘17 750w

       + =Cleveland= p4 Ja ‘18 90w

  “Any admirer of Lindsay will observe with distrust this growing
  insistence on the sermonizing feature of his work.” L: Untermeyer

     – + =Dial= 63:633 D 20 ‘17 1050w

  “Of all the American poets to whom the epithet ‘modern’ has been
  applied Nicholas Vachel Lindsay has struck the most distinctively
  American note.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 D 15 ‘17 1000w

         =New Repub= 13:353 Ja 19 ‘18 60w

  “The book does not lift his place in American poetry; its crudities
  are more noticeable, as this is a third book; but the spontaneous
  soil-taste of some of the poems cannot be gainsaid, nor his ability to
  weave garments of fantastic wonder, to please childlike hearts
  forever.” Clement Wood

     – + =N Y Call= p14 D 8 ‘17 670w

  “For beauty and vigor the title poem is unsurpassed in modern poetry.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:106 Ja ‘18 80w


=LINTIER, PAUL.= My .75; reminiscences of a gunner of a .75 m/m battery
in 1914; from the French; with a preface by Frances Wilson Huard. *$1.35
(2½c) Doran 940.91 (Eng ed 17-24670)

  A dramatic story of France from the days of mobilization to the
  battles on the Aisne. The author, twenty-three at the time of his
  death, has not only furnished the world with a first hand account,
  clear and gripping, of the important events ending at the Marne and
  the Aisne but has prepared a human document which will show the ages
  to come the heroism of souls as they reacted to the stupendous demands
  of the field of honor. “The admirable patience, the great good humour,
  the intelligent cleverness and heroic devotion together with the
  plain, simple courage, all the deep-rooted, undreamed of qualities of
  the French race, are to be found within its covers, making it a
  monument to stoic virtue.” (Preface)

  “It is the work of a fine, eager spirit and it is well done, clear,
  vivid, unpretentious. No one can deny that he had the gift of
  narration. But it is promise, not fulfilment, after all.” C. M.
  Francis

     + — =Bookm= 46:450 D ‘17 270w

  “The book is an important document because the two qualities of the
  French race are here found, intellectual cleverness and simple
  courage.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 29 ‘17 330w

  “Amongst the appalling number of war books ‘My .75’ stands out.
  Plainness of language and matter of fact descriptions go to make the
  book distinctive.”

       + =New Repub= 13:387 Ja 26 ‘18 100w

  “There is pathos, romance, and history in the proper degree. There is
  just enough of each to make the work comprehensive. Paul Lintier has
  that fine combination of delicacy and strength, so characteristic of
  Balzac, De Musset, and Bordeaux. It is an exceptional book and should
  live in the hearts of those who love France and in the minds of those
  who love good literature.”

     + + =N Y Times= 22:441 O 28 ‘17 140w

  “It is the work of an acutely observant and sensitive mind. On one
  page the author puts down horrors and outrages with downright realism;
  on another he reveals the power of rumour or the glory of a country
  luxuriant in natural beauty. ... The candour of the writer is
  remarkable.”

       + =Sat R= 123:553 Je 16 ‘17 400w

         =Spec= 119:770 D 29 ‘17 100w

  “His book should live, however, for a long, long time, because of its
  single truthfulness and sincerity, because of its vivid pictures of
  the French army in the early part of the war. The spirit shown by
  Lintier in his diary was the spirit of his comrades—of France. Every
  detail, no matter how ghastly, bears the stamp of truth.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 26 ‘17 300w


=LIPPINCOTT, HORACE MATHER.= Early Philadelphia; its people, life and
progress. il *$6 Lippincott 974.8 17-28902

  “This book endeavors to name and describe all the leading characters
  and the various social, financial, and patriotic organizations, giving
  portraits and reproductions of people and places, buildings and
  bridges and parks, in such a way as to offend none and please all, at
  least all whose names and interest are included. It is a sort of book
  of heraldry for all the substantial and socially fit of the present
  day. If you are a Philadelphian and have ancestors who counted in the
  city of Franklin, this book will give you name, business, and
  standing.” (Dial) “Mr Lippincott begins with a sketch of and tribute
  to the founder of the city and carries the record down to and beyond
  the middle eighteenth century.” (Springf’d Republican)

  “Other little matters of this sort might be found, but so many errors
  have been contained in other books about the times (notably ‘Hugh
  Wynne’), concerning Quaker traits and local geography, that these seem
  trivial, and one gets a very fair picture of old scenes and manners
  from Mr Lippincott’s book. The style is clear and the selection of
  subjects well proportioned.” I: Sharpless

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:416 Ja ‘18 530w

     + — =Dial= 63:593 D 6 ‘17 350w

       + =Outlook= 117:576 D 5 ‘17 60w

  “Naturally and logically, a great part of the volume is devoted to a
  description of the Philadelphia Quakers. Other elements in the city’s
  growth receive due attention, and there is an interesting treatment of
  the German and Scotch-Irish migrations into what was then the
  wilderness.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:103 Ja ‘18 90w

  “Mr Lippincott has not written a classic account of Philadelphia life.
  But his sketchy pages are readable and informing and are suitably
  flavored with quotations from contemporary documents.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 7 ‘17 550w


=LIPPMANN, JULIE MATHILDE.= Mannequin. *$1.30 (3½c) Duffield 17-12389

  A case of mistaken identity is the basis for this story. A rich and
  idle young woman is taken for one of the mannequins in a dressmaking
  establishment. The mistake is made by Mrs Jerome-Jarvis, an autocratic
  society leader, who had engaged the real mannequin as a companion on a
  yachting trip. Elizabeth Tiernan finds herself hustled without
  ceremony aboard the great lady’s yacht, and thinking it a joke that
  can be explained in the morning, she keeps silent. But by morning the
  joke has been carried beyond her control. She scents a mystery, and by
  making a few errors in judgment on her own account, adds to the
  confusion.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 2 ‘17 200w

  “This new book by the author of ‘Burkses’ Amy’ and ‘Martha-by-the-day’
  is one of those tales which, being possessed of an utterly
  preposterous plot, require the lightest and deftest kind of handling.
  Such stories need wit, and debonair, irresponsible gayety; they must
  froth and sparkle, if they are not to be merely silly. And ‘The
  mannequin’ reminds one very much of lukewarm ginger ale—entirely flat
  and insipid.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:218 Je 3 ‘17 230w

  “The situation develops into a hilarious farce, with ludicrous
  misunderstandings and cross purposes. The heroine is always charming
  and sprightly, and the story affords amusement.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 150w


=LIPSON, EPHRAIM.= Europe in the nineteenth century; an outline history.
il *$2 Macmillan 940.9 (Eng ed 17-859)

  “The author, already known by his ‘Introduction to the economic
  history of England: middle ages,’ now provides a history of Europe
  from the fall of Napoleon to the present time.” (Ath) “In the preface
  to the book now under review Mr Lipson lays claim to a certain
  originality, at least of presentment. He has, he says, ‘discarded the
  traditional method of writing European history from the standpoint of
  international politics in favour of a method of treatment which gives
  a concise and connected account—analytical rather than narrative—of
  the internal development of the chief European states after the fall
  of Napoleon.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

  “The brevity of the book, as compared with other recent discussions of
  the same subject has been brought about by some notable omissions.
  Substantially no space is given to England or to minor states like
  Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, and the Scandinavian countries; the
  industrial revolution and, in general, the social and economic parts
  of the story, are given only slight attention—much less than in most
  of the later books; little emphasis is placed upon European history
  since 1870, except as connected with the outbreak of the war. ... An
  extremely pleasant characteristic of the book is the calm, historical
  temper with which Mr Lipson approached those parts of his subject that
  deal with the present war. ... As an example of the book-maker’s art,
  the volume reflects war conditions in the unsubstantial character of
  the binding. There are no bibliographies and the index is inadequate.
  The maps do not compare favorably with the best of recent publications
  on nineteenth-century Europe.” C: R. Lingley

     + — =Am Hist R= 22:852 Jl ‘17 650w

  “Of particular importance are the chapters on ‘The reform movement in
  Russia, 1815-1916,’ and ‘The growth of the German empire,
  1815-70.’ ... Mr Lipson gives a clear account of the achievement of
  the political unity of Italy. ... The maps in the volume can be
  commended. Altogether, Mr Lipson has produced a valuable summary of
  modern European history, treated in a somewhat novel manner.”

       + =Ath= p437 S ‘16 250w

  “The chapter on the Balkan States will probably be the most valued by
  the ‘general readers’ for whom the book is intended.” G. B. H.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:157 Ja ‘17 50w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:15 Ja ‘17

  “From the point of view of the general reader one capital defect of Mr
  Lipson’s method is that it necessarily takes too much knowledge for
  granted. ... In general, apart from this defect, the chapters dealing
  with the internal developments of the states are clear and accurate,
  though following in the main conventional lines. ... His chapter on
  the Reform movement in Russia is particularly interesting, especially
  the account of the effects of the industrial revolution which followed
  the emancipation of the serfs and the introduction of railways. But
  here again the bias that makes him defend the Commune makes him less
  than fair to autocrats. ... Not all the chapters reach the high level
  of that on Russia. The least satisfactory perhaps is that on the
  Balkan States.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p470 O 5 ‘16 1300w


=LISTER, CHARLES ALFRED.= Charles Lister; letters and recollections. il
*$3.50 Scribner 17-13304

  “This volume, which serves as a memento to his son, Lord Ribblesdale
  has compiled out of letters written to his family and friends by
  Charles Lister, to which are added a memoir by the father, and
  recollections of the son by Sir Rennell Rodd, under whom the young man
  served in the British embassy at Rome before the war, and others.
  Charles Lister took part in the Gallipoli campaign, where he was
  wounded three times, and died from the effects of the last wound in
  August, 1915, at the age of 28. ... The letters begin five years
  before the opening of the war and relate his doings, observations, and
  thinking during a holiday in Germany, his two years of service at Rome
  with the British embassy, a trip to India and Constantinople, and then
  take up his experiences on the expedition to the Dardanelles. These
  last compose the bulk of the book.”—N Y Times

  “Unusually readable letters.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:58 N ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:130 Ap 8 ‘17 200w

         =Pratt= p48 O ‘17 30w

       + =Spec= 118:45 Ja 13 ‘17 1500w

  “There is never a trace of the junker spirit, never a word about the
  glory of war. There is hardly any self-consciousness. The book is a
  continuous revelation of charm, high spirits and character: also of a
  young man’s alert-minded and fruitful reaction to the various phases
  of his experience in the 20th-century English world.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Mr 25 ‘17 1150w

  “Lord Ribblesdale has done his work as editor with detachment and
  restraint. With abundance of material, he has managed to keep the book
  comparatively small and altogether interesting.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p7 Ja 4 ‘17 1150w


=LITCHFIELD, GRACE DENIO.= Song of the sirens. *$1 Putnam 811 17-11825

  Ulysses is made the hero of this poem. In rhymed couplets and regular
  measure the author tells the story of the perilous passage of the
  Sirens’ rock, with Ulysses lashed to the mast and vainly demanding
  release from his unheeding seamen. One of these is singled out from
  the rest, the youngest and least of the rowers, who suffers in his
  master’s agony.

  “The book stands out among this season’s volumes of verse as a work of
  much more than passing interest and value. It is unfortunate that none
  of our magazines had an editor sufficiently enlightened to discover
  ‘The song of the sirens’ and print it as a serial.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1861 Je 16 ‘17 750w


=LIVESAY, FLORENCE RANDAL=, tr. Songs of Ukraina; with Ruthenian poems.
*$1.50 Dutton 891.7 17-26397

  “This collection of the songs of the essentially poetic and musical
  ‘Little Russian’ people is divided into parts according to
  subject—Cossack songs, Wedding songs, etc., the longest section being
  Folk songs; and the poems by Fedkovich (1834-1888) having a place by
  themselves.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:392 Je ‘17

       + =Ath= p543 N ‘16 60w

  “The translations, though not ideal, are lively and spirited. It is a
  book which every lover of poetry will prize.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 3 ‘17 800w

         =Cleveland= p134 D ‘17 90w

  “The translations into English are excellent.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:287 Ag 5 ‘17 150w

  “The translator is a Canadian—her home is in Winnipeg. ... These folk
  songs of the ‘forgotten kingdom of Ukraina’ have come down through
  singing centuries and hold in them the history of the most artistic of
  Slav people.”

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:112 My ‘17 60w

  “The gloom and toil of the Russian peasant pervades these poems, and
  it must be said that in some cases they seem hampered by faulty
  translation.”

         =Outlook= 115:116 Ja 17 ‘17 50w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p527 N 2 ‘16 40w


=LIVINGSTONE, RICHARD WINN.= Defence of classical education. *$1.40 (2c)
Macmillan 375 (Eng ed 17-12623)

  “A main contention, in this able defence of the humanities in
  education, is that a nation can be ‘scientific,’ though compulsory
  classics are the staple of its secondary education, and though the
  majority of its youth is trained in classical schools. Particulars are
  given to show that German secondary education is far more classical
  than ours. A caution is conveyed against the mistake of supposing that
  we are simply suffering from the predominant position of classics in
  our public schools, and that we have only to expel them in favour of
  physical science and modern languages ‘to be cured of all our ills.’
  It is admitted by the author that we need more physical science in
  industry and elsewhere; but it is pointed out that our real weakness
  is a national indifference to knowledge. Cogent presentations of the
  case for Greek and the case for Latin are embodied in chaps. 3 and 4;
  and an effort is made later to combat the idea that the classics can
  be studied satisfactorily in translations. The last chapter contains
  suggestions for reforms.”—Ath

  “The title of the book may, we fear, militate against its usefulness
  and have the tendency of warning off the general reader, who may
  regard it as the work of a specialist. ... ‘A defence of classical
  education’ is admirably adapted, by its absence of technicalities, its
  infectious enthusiasm, and its clear and graceful style, to appeal to
  that growing public which is ready to know more of this new learning.”

       + =Ath= p24 Ja ‘17 1050w

       + =Ath= p37 Ja ‘17 170w

  “This book is, unfortunately, based upon two misconceptions, both of
  which are common amongst classicists. ... The title of the book is a
  misnomer, for the work is not a defence of classical education at
  all. ... As a plea for the retention of classics in a general scheme
  of education, the book is excellent. Where Mr Livingstone is dealing
  with facts he is on safe ground, and the majority of the work is a
  ‘hymn of praise’ which is wholly admirable. His assumptions, however,
  are nearly always erroneous, and his conclusions illogical; one cannot
  help thinking that a little knowledge of scientific method would have
  saved him from many pitfalls.”

     – + =Nature= 99:1 Mr 1 ‘17 900w

  “The questions most frequently asked are these: Why should the
  classics have a place in our education? Why should they not be
  confined to a few specialists? Why should they not be entirely
  replaced by our own and other modern languages, literatures, and
  history? To these inquiries Mr Livingstone wisely devotes the greater
  part of his book. ... We are glad to see that Mr Livingstone ends with
  some excellent suggestions for reform in classical teaching, more
  attention to ‘realien,’ and less prominence for the purely linguistic
  side.”

       + =Sat R= 123:41 Ja 13 ‘17 1100w

  “Mr Livingstone has written a charming book. The beauty and solid
  worth of the best Greek and Latin authors are admirably described in
  his main chapters. But while we sympathize heartily with his reverence
  for the classics, we cannot help remarking that he does not really
  face the question whether they can be read with profit in
  translations.”

       + =Spec= 118:174 F 10 ‘17 900w

  “Among these fixed points which are emerging, the central one, and the
  most important, is the growing conviction that the aim of education is
  neither literary culture nor scientific acquirement, neither technical
  skill nor commercial aptitude, but the creation and diffusion of
  citizenship in its full sense. ... Mr Livingstone’s volume is a
  statement, satisfactory in its fullness, excellent in its sanity and
  moderation, of the reasons for holding that, here and now, the study
  of the classics has a necessary and important place in such an
  education.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p30 Ja 18 ‘17 2650w


=LIVINGSTONE, WILLIAM PRINGLE.= Mary Slessor of Calabar: pioneer
missionary. 6th ed il *$1.50 Doran 16-22663

  “The heroine was a Scotch girl born amidst the humblest surroundings
  and conditions, which made her at fourteen and for fourteen years a
  millworker in the city of Dundee. ... From her early childhood she was
  interested in the missionary efforts along the old Calabar coast, and
  here from 1876 until her death in 1915 she carried on, often alone and
  in the midst of danger, a pioneer work for the reclamation of the
  savage tribes. This well written memoir, based chiefly upon her many
  letters, gives the reader a striking picture of the barbarous life and
  customs of the natives of Calabar and shows the uplifting power of
  civilization.”—Ind

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:350 My ‘17

         =Cleveland= p106 Ag ‘16

  “One of the most fascinating missionary biographies ever written. It
  has the romance of heroism and adventure, the vitality of vigorous
  achievement, the freshness of pioneering in a land of strange peoples
  and weird customs.”

       + =Ind= 88:327 N 20 ‘16 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:91 Je ‘16

  “Has had the unusual experience for a biography—and especially that of
  a foreign missionary—of being among the ‘best sellers.’ In its first
  months it is already in its fourth edition, and well it may be, for
  rarely has a life been lived so full of romance, of heroism, and at
  the same time of absolute sincerity and simplicity.”

       + =Outlook= 115:194 Ja 31 ‘17 2750w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:526 Je ‘17 60w

         =Pratt= p45 Ja ‘17


=LIVINGSTONE, WILLIAM PRINGLE.= Story of Mary Slessor for young people;
a true story of adventure, heroism and faith. il *$1 Doran 17-4476

  “The natives of Africa knew the heroine of this true story by the name
  of ‘The white queen of Okoyong.’ Her real name is Mary Slessor, and
  this is her biography. It is written for children, and tells the whole
  life history of the brave Scottish missionary whom the Presbyterian
  church sent out to Africa in 1876. From that date until her death in
  1914 Miss Slessor acted as friend, teacher, minister, doctor and
  officer of the law to the savages in the then uncharted wilds of
  Calabar.” (Boston Transcript) Mary Slessor is one of the “Heroines of
  service” about whom Mary R. Parkman writes in her book of that title.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:454 Jl ‘17

  “This book ought to fire the imagination and direct the activities of
  boys and girls until they shall become in turn such workmen as Mary
  Slessor was in the realm of unselfish service.”

       + =Bib World= 50:315 N ‘17 90w

  “The account throws many sidelights on African customs and
  institutions.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 3 ‘17 160w


=LOCKE, WILLIAM JOHN.= Red planet. *$1.50 (2c) Lane 17-26481

  Grief-stricken with the sudden news of the death in action of his only
  son, Sir Anthony Fenimore turns to take his place as chairman of a war
  committee with the words: “The boy didn’t shirk his duty. Why should
  I?” This opening incident is the keynote of the book, which is a story
  of England in war-time, a story of high courage and of homes made
  desolate. It is told by Major Meredyth of the regular army who,
  invalided since the Boer war, could, at first, only watch those
  activities in which he longed to join. But, in the end, he, too, finds
  his place and can say: “I, too, am a man of the great war. I have
  lived in it, and worked in it, and suffered in it. So long as one’s
  soul is sound—that is the great matter.” His work had been the helping
  to keep sound the souls of those about him in the little south of
  England town in which he lived, and, in particular, to aid as only a
  brother officer could, Leonard Boyce, in his tragic struggle between
  his better and his lower nature. It is this struggle for self-mastery,
  fought out in South Africa, in England, in the trenches, that forms a
  background for the incidents of the book, and it is Betty Fairfax,
  type of all true women in the war, who gives charm and heart to the
  tale. Locke, the romancer, is no longer romancing. He is telling
  spiritual truth.

  “Well written, full of good character sketches and will be popular.
  Appeared in Good Housekeeping.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:450 Jl ‘17

       + =Ath= p528 O ‘17 110w

  “‘The white feather’ might have better suggested its central motive,
  for the chief figure in the action is an English officer with a
  lifelong strain of cowardice to fight down and conceal. ... A piece of
  clever claptrap. Any war might have served as the background.” H. W.
  Boynton

       — =Bookm= 45:645 Ag ‘17 650w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 1300w

  “Written with much skill, timely to the very minute, and full of human
  appeal. Mr Locke has succeeded, in his portrayal of Boyce, in giving a
  living character to literature. The conclusion is an artistic blunder,
  as well as distasteful from the moral point of view.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:110 O ‘17 600w

       + =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 110w

  “It is the astonishing combination of the modern and the mid-Victorian
  that fascinates the reader of ‘The red planet.’ A well-ordered globe
  is Mr Locke’s, an England rubber-tired and ball-bearing, not the dusty
  and irresponsible country of Mr Britling. And we are not sure that
  Boyce is not one of the most virile men that Locke has ever drawn.”

       + =Dial= 63:162 Ag 30 ‘17 270w

  “A thoroly interesting story crisply and entertainingly written.”

       + =Ind= 91:291 Ag 25 ‘17 400w

  “For all its clever and amusing detail, there is little sincerity in
  this book: even the great war is used merely as an off-stage
  convenience for the development of an essentially commonplace and
  artificial plot.”

     – + =Nation= 105:124 Ag 2 ‘17 450w

  “We cannot even pretend to believe in these people. They are pallid
  and patriotic and dull. They do not really exist.”

       — =New Repub= 12:82 Ag 18 ‘17 400w

  “Mr Locke has always shown remarkable skill in making interesting,
  even heroic or lovable, figures out of most unpromising material, such
  as that of his ‘Beloved vagabond,’ and none of that skill deserts him
  as he unfolds this story through the pen and personality of Major
  Meredyth, almost helpless paralytic though his leading character
  is. ... We can come into touch with the struggle only through the
  spirit. But his spirit flames and mounts, and in it one sees the
  spirit of England.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:245 Jl 1 ‘17 1350w

  “Mr Locke is always better in character rendering than in plot, and
  even more so than usual in this novel.”

     + — =Outlook= 116:488 Jl 25 ‘17 170w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:649 O ‘17 50w

     + — =Sat R= 124:335 O 27 ‘17 500w

  “Skilfully constructed and worked out to a dramatic close.”

       + =Spec= 119:330 S 29 ‘17 950w

  “While presenting but a tiny corner of the war drama, he makes the
  reader feel the spirit and far-reaching effects of the struggle.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 600w

  “It may be that recollections of ‘Lord Jim,’ and perhaps of ‘The four
  feathers,’ make Mr Locke’s analysis of Leonard Boyce seem a little
  confused and shallow.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p452 S 20 ‘17 600w


=LODGE, HENRY CABOT.= War addresses, 1915-1917. *$2.50 (3c) Houghton 308
17-14032

  A collection of addresses made between 1915 and 1917. Among them are:
  Mexico, a speech delivered in the Senate, January 6, 1915; Force and
  peace, the Chancellor’s address at Union college, June 9, 1915;
  France, delivered before the Franco-American Republican club of
  Massachusetts, September 6, 1915; National defence, delivered before
  the National security league at Washington, January 22, 1916; Armed
  merchantmen, delivered in the Senate, February 18, 1916; The failure
  of the Executive to vindicate American rights, delivered in the
  Senate, February 24, 1917; and War with Germany, delivered in the
  Senate, April 4, 1917.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:7 O ‘17

  “Some of these addresses are of great interest and value to students
  of public affairs. All of them deal with topics of present day
  interest and all are of sufficient merit to warrant their preservation
  for readers of a future generation.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:594 Ag ‘17 90w

  “All the attributes of a sound statesmanship based upon a thorough
  knowledge of the past, a clear understanding of the present and a
  prophetic insight into the future are to be found in the volume of
  Henry Cabot Lodge’s ‘War addresses, 1915-1917.’” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 My 26 ‘17 770w

       + =Ind= 92:58 O 6 ‘17 120w

  “Naturally, Mr Lodge’s addresses in the Senate and elsewhere, during
  the years 1915-16, were those of a Republican senator criticizing a
  Democratic administration; and some of his criticisms were very keen.
  Yet even then, he was often in accord with President Wilson.”

       + =Lit D= 55:39 O 13 ‘17 450w

  “Mr Lodge’s shift from advocacy of a league of nations to opposition,
  coming coincidentally with Mr Wilson’s new emphasis and the raising of
  the question as an immediate practical issue, is the most important
  fact that ‘War addresses’ records. ‘War addresses’ is an exceptional
  book for its directness. But it leaves the impression that Mr Lodge is
  progressive where progressiveness matters least, and reactionary where
  the opportunity for liberalism is most bright.” C. M.

     + — =New Repub= 13:221 D 22 ‘17 1500w

  “There is a kind of luminous simplicity and earnestness in the
  statement of plain truths and sound ideals that hardly ever fails of
  its effect. This kind of eloquence is possessed in no small degree by
  Senator Lodge. ... The more controversial parts of the political
  speeches, too, will delight any not too unsympathetic reader who
  appreciates caustic criticism, subtle sarcasm, and argumentative
  skill.”

       + =No Am= 206:136 Jl ‘17 480w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:688 O ‘17 120w

         =R of Rs= 56:213 Ag ‘17 80w

  “The ‘War addresses’ are hardly important except as political
  documents—using political in the partisan sense. Of course Mr Lodge’s
  polished phrases give his speeches a superficial distinction which the
  oratory of the Senate frequently lacks. But no consistent application
  of principle is manifest in this collection and no fundamental policy
  besides the gaining of political advantage.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 2 ‘17 450w


=LOEB, JACQUES.= Organism as a whole. il *$2.50 (3c) Putnam 575 16-25201

  Individual physiological processes are readily explained on a
  physiochemical basis, but how, from this point of view, is the fusion
  of individual processes into a harmonious whole to be accounted for?
  This is the problem to which Dr Loeb of the Rockefeller institute
  addresses himself in this volume. The book is based on his experiments
  in recent years and consists of chapters on: The specific difference
  between living and dead matter; The chemical basis of genus and
  species; Specificity in fertilization; Artificial parthenogenesis;
  Determinism in the formation of an organism from an egg; Regeneration;
  Determination of sex; Mendelian heredity and its mechanism; Animal
  instincts and tropisms; The influence of environment; Adaptation to
  environment; Evolution; Death and dissolution of the organism.

  “Scientific and accurate in details and should be read by all
  individuals interested in a mechanistic philosophy of living things.”

       + =Nation= 104:494 Ap 26 ‘17 850w

       + =Pratt= p19 O ‘17 20w

  “The volume is a valuable addition to the science series—a series in
  which so many subjects have been treated—and is one that will appeal
  strongly to anyone who has the rudiments of a zoological training.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p12 Mr 30 ‘17 300w

  “Gifted with strong scientific imagination, Professor Loeb is one of
  those who go on, making the most of the facts we have, imperfect
  though our comprehension be.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p461 S 27 ‘17 2200w


=LONDON, CHARMIAN KITTREDGE (MRS JACK LONDON).=[2] Our Hawaii. il *$2.25
(2c) Macmillan 919.69 17-27941

  A book that has grown out of the experiences of the Londons in the
  “little space of Paradise ... that is so beautiful and restful and
  green.” One of Mrs Jack London’s evident desires is that the journal,
  in addition to its descriptions of Hawaii, may reveal something of her
  late husband’s personality and manner of living. The journal covers a
  few months spent in Hawaii a decade ago and concludes with a résumé of
  experiences there in 1915-1916. Mrs London says, “I have tried to limn
  a picture of the charm of the Hawaiian Islander as he was, and of his
  becoming, together with the enchantment of his lofty isles and their
  abundant hospitality.” Maps and illustrations accompany the text.

  “There are several reasons why ‘Our Hawaii’ is an exceedingly
  interesting book.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:11 Ja 13 ‘18 650w

       + =Outlook= 118:67 Ja 9 ‘18 70w

  “Her desire to express the spirit of Hawaii in the written word has
  made her book in some places resemble the attempts of a schoolgirl
  intent on writing a theme full of ‘atmosphere.’ In spite of being
  badly written, the book derives some interest—though not much—from its
  exuberant impressions and also from the biographical facts revealed
  about the author’s husband.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 200w


=LONDON, JACK.= Human drift. il *$1.25 Macmillan 818 17-6354

  A collection of miscellaneous papers and sketches reprinted from
  various magazines. The human drift is an essay on the movements and
  migrations of peoples in their search for food, and the rise and fall
  of races. Following this come four sketches drawn from Jack London’s
  own experiences on land and sea. The introduction written for “Two
  years before the mast” is reprinted, and the book closes with two
  short plays.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:440 Jl ‘17

       + =Dial= 62:404 My 3 ‘17 430w

         =Ind= 90:474 Je 9 ‘17 70w

       + =Nation= 104:583 My 10 ‘17 350w

  “London has not attempted much in the dramatic field. A reading of the
  two sketches included in this volume is enough to show that, with all
  his power of dramatic description and narration, the dramatic form
  itself is beyond him.” D: P. Berenberg

         =N Y Call= p15 Je 24 ‘17 430w

  “Lovers of Mr London’s work will probably find him at his best and
  most individual self in the essay on ‘Small boat sailing,’ which will
  be a very enjoyable bit of writing for all devotees of that sport.”

         =N Y Times= 22:88 Mr 11 ‘17 300w

         =St Louis= 15:151 My ‘17

  “London voices no new thought in his philosophical sketch, ‘The human
  drift,’ but he does present old ideas in a new and vivid garb.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 740w


=LONDON, JACK.= Jerry of the Islands. il *$1.50 (2c) Macmillan 17-12393

  Jerry is an Irish terrier, a dog of many adventures. Born on one of
  the Solomon Islands, he early comes to know as master the man called
  Skipper. Skipper to Jerry is a god. To others he is captain of a boat
  engaged in “nigger-running,” the trade by means of which labor is
  supplied for the South Sea plantations. The calling is a dangerous
  one, and when Skipper meets his fate, Jerry falls into the hands of a
  head-hunting chief and a cannibal village becomes his home. Chance
  saves him from the cooking-pot and he escapes into the wilds. But
  unlike another dog hero, Jerry does not revert to the primitive. The
  yacht Ariel comes to his rescue, and in Harley and Villa Kennan Jerry
  finds two gods worthy of a dog’s worship.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:60 N ‘17

  “As a protracted dog yarn, the story is quite pleasant reading.”

       + =Ath= p471 S ‘17 80w

  “Jerry and his tale are more plainly fiction than that great dog
  story, ‘The call of the wild’; but what a story-teller this man was!”
  H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 45:536 Jl ‘17 430w

  “His knowledge of and sympathy with his subject is unbounded, and his
  imagination plays with all its customary vigor and variety over a
  multitude of scenes in which men as well as the dog hero have an
  important part. ... It is good, too, in his last novel to find Mr
  London a story-teller and not a propagandist.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 28 ‘17 1300w

  “While ‘Jerry’ is not in any sense one of London’s best works, it is
  yet worth reading.” D: P. Berenberg

     – + =N Y Call= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 300w

  “The story suffers a good deal from excess verbiage. ... This fault is
  at its worst and more discouraging in the early chapters, before the
  reader’s interest has been awakened. But if, by dint of hope and
  skipping, he goes on he will be well repaid.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:158 Ap 22 ‘17 630w

       + =Outlook= 116:116 My 16 ‘17 40w

  “The book is effectively written in a way, yet tediously full of the
  traders’ variety of pigeon-English called bêche de mer, which serves
  as a medium between white man and black. The home-staying white of
  this country will find it not easy to understand.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:251 S 29 ‘17 530w

  “In this last story of his Mr London has struck a new note. He has
  sought to express the gentler emotions—the love of the dog for the
  master and the love of the master for the dog.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p356 Jl 26 ‘17 700w


=LONDON, JACK.= Michael, brother of Jerry. il *$1.50 (1½c) Macmillan
17-29517

  Like Jerry, Michael was a dog of the South seas, and like Jerry he
  could make himself quite as much at home on slippery decks as on dry
  land. Michael’s first master is Captain Kellar of the Solomon islands,
  but after he is stolen by Dag Daughtry he comes to love that
  none-too-honest, beer-drinking steward with all a dog’s devotion. It
  had been Daughtry’s intention to sell the dog, but having given much
  loving patience to his training, he finds that he cannot part with
  him. Circumstances, however, take Michael away from this considerate
  master and he falls into the hands of a noted animal trainer and
  enters the life that Jack London calls an animal hell. “Cruelty, as a
  fine art, has attained its perfect flower in the trained-animal
  world,” he writes in a foreword. Michael is rescued in time by Harley
  and Villa Kennan, but he is never the same dog again.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:132 Ja ‘18

  “Jack London was the founder of a school of writers in fiction whose
  work will outlive his own, but which is not likely to catch the trick,
  the magnetism—call it what you will—that distinguishes his own above
  the rank and file.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 D 19 ‘17 400w

  “Red tears and bloody sweats!—these are the tributes Jack London loved
  to wring from the torn hearts (as it were) of his auditors. If the
  reader would put his finger on some special item in proof of this, let
  him read the description of the fight between Michael and a quite
  casual man which takes place after Michael has been rescued from the
  torment of the trained-animal world, and which is therefore clearly
  introduced on its own merits.”

     – + =Nation= 105:666 D 13 ‘17 350w

  “If the picture drawn by London of the training of animals for the
  circus and the stage is a true one, then the quicker we act to
  eliminate animal performances the better. It is to be hoped that
  ‘Michael’ has a wide circulation.” D. P. Berenberg

       + =N Y Call= p14 D 29 ‘17 380w

  “It is, of course, scarcely necessary to say that much of this book is
  anything but pleasant reading. If, however, what it tells be indeed
  the truth, then it is reading which people should have forced upon
  them. Michael himself will appeal to all dog-lovers, and Dag Daughtry
  is well drawn.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:490 N 25 ‘17 1100w


=LONG, HAROLD C.= Plants poisonous to live stock. (Cambridge
agricultural monographs) il *$2 (5c) Putnam 581.6 (Eng ed Agr17-863)

  The author says, “As in the case of a previous volume ‘Common weeds of
  the farm and garden,’ the preparation of this handbook was undertaken
  because of the great lack of readily available and reliable
  information on the subject in English scientific literature.” An
  introductory chapter discusses such matters as What is a poisonous
  plant? Harm done by poisonous plants, etc. The remainder of the book
  is given up to descriptions of plants and of the symptoms of
  poisoning. There is a chapter devoted to Plants suspected of being
  poisonous and one to The effects of plants on milk.

  “A handy work of reference in a subject on which the literature is
  remarkably scattered. The author has brought together many facts from
  numerous technical reports and journals, and the compilation will be
  of great value to those responsible for the care and treatment of
  animals.”

       + =Nature= 99:501 Ag 23 ‘17 430w

  “Mr Long has filled a gap in scientific literature with a monograph
  which shows wide knowledge. The bibliography shows the extent of his
  gatherings.”

       + =Sat R= 124:sup7 Jl 7 ‘17 110w


=LONG, WILLIAM JOSEPH.= Outlines of English and American literature. il
$1.40 (1c) Ginn 820.9 17-14159

  This “introduction to the chief writers of England and America, to the
  books they wrote, and to the times in which they lived,” is based on
  the author’s earlier works, “English literature” and “American
  literature.” It is a work however in which “the material, the
  viewpoint, the presentation of individual writers” are entirely new.
  The author’s aim here has been to relate literature to life. He says,
  “The only valuable or interesting feature of any work of literature is
  its vitality.” For each literary period a brief historical survey and
  a review of literary tendencies are given. These are followed by
  biographical sketches of authors and discussions of their principal
  works. Each chapter is followed by a bibliography.

  “Histories of English literature and histories of American literature
  are many, but rarely if ever has the one subject been compressed
  within the pages of a single volume in a way to show their unity and
  alliance. Dr William J. Long has, however, done this with exceptional
  skill. ... Attractively printed and bound, illustrated with many
  portraits and scenes, Dr Long’s book gives incentive to a study of
  literature. It is elementary, to be sure, but it contains much that is
  profitably enlightening to readers who are fully acquainted with the
  subject.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 800w

  “Excellent illustrations.”

       + =Dial= 63:352 O 11 ‘17 70w

  “Written with much vivacity and charm. The latter third of the book is
  given to an uncommonly well balanced review of American letters.”

       + =Ind= 91:230 Ag 11 ‘17 120w

  “The opening chapters excellently combine a view of the development of
  the language along with an account of the literary monuments. There is
  no attempt to bring American literature into relation with English; we
  have frankly two volumes in one. The story does not come beyond
  Stevenson and Ruskin, and Howells is the only living American author
  treated at length.”

       + =Nation= 105:260 S 6 ‘17 100w

  Reviewed by E. F. Geyer and R. L. Lyman

       + =School R= 25:610 O ‘17 70w

  “William J. Long, the well-known nature writer, could be pardoned a
  few heresies, for the author discloses considerable freshness in his
  impressions and his style; but the book is too full of erroneous
  statements and erroneous judgments to be accepted as an introduction
  to English letters.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 25 ‘17 500w


=LONGACRE, LINDSAY BARTHOLOMEW.= Prophet of the Spirit. *75c Meth. bk.
224 17-23303

  “The sub-title of this book is ‘A sketch of the character and work of
  Jeremiah.’ In his preface Professor Longacre says: ‘The following
  brief study of the prophet Jeremiah has been made in the belief that
  attention to the distinctions of time and circumstance leads to a
  discovery of God’s methods of self-revelation. The purpose has been to
  portray a man rather than to expound a book.’” (Boston Transcript) “A
  preliminary chapter on the literary history of the book leads to a
  study of ‘The man his neighbors knew,’ and with this key in our hands
  we pass through his various struggles with king and people, and no
  less with himself and his God, till we emerge to the clear sunshine of
  the New covenant of spirit and life.” (Bib World)

  “An admirable little book. It is excellently written and well adapted
  to the purpose for which it was written. The prophet Jeremiah is made
  to appear like a real man working among his fellow-men.” J. M. P. S.

     + — =Am J Theol= 21:634 O ‘17 230w

       + =Bib World= 50:315 N ‘17 190w

  “Professor Longacre’s conception of the character of Jeremiah is
  admirably carried out.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 31 ‘17 320w


=LONGMAN, W.= Tokens of the eighteenth century connected with
booksellers and book-makers. il *$2 (9½c) Longmans 737

  The practice of issuing “tokens” in lieu of small change grew out of
  the scarcity of coins of small denominations. A “token” issued by a
  tradesman corresponded to a promise to pay the amount stamped on the
  face. The author, a collector of these curious examples of coinage,
  has brought together all the information he has at his command
  concerning tokens issued by booksellers and others connected with the
  book trade of the 18th century, including authors, publishers,
  engravers and paper makers.

  “The descriptions of the various tokens are accompanied by interesting
  notes on the life and history of their issuers. These include notably
  Eaton, Spence, and others who suffered on behalf of the liberty of the
  press at the close of the eighteenth century.” E. T. L.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:317 Ap ‘17 100w

  “A delightful account written by a collector who knows his
  subject. ... It may be recommended to collectors of tokens, and to
  those for whom the history of booksellers, printers, etc., is
  attractive, as well as to any one investigating political opinions of
  the period.”

       + =Nation= 104:636 My 24 ‘17 270w

       + =N Y Times= 22:116 Ap 1 ‘17 60w


=LONGSTAFF, FREDERICK V., and ATTERIDGE, A. HILLIARD.= Book of the
machine gun. il *$3.50 Dodd 358 (Eng ed 17-7941)

  This work by two British officers consists of chapters on: The
  evolution of the machine gun; Machine guns in battle: The evolution of
  machine gun tactics; Matériel; Machine guns in the British army;
  Machine guns in Germany and Austria; Machine guns in various foreign
  armies; Tactics; Training. In addition there are appendixes giving A
  bibliography of unofficial works; List of some British patents; and
  Extracts from Colonel Mayne’s works. At the close of the book,
  following the index, are grouped a series of illustrations, arranged
  chronologically to show the development of the machine gun.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:155 F ‘18

       + =Cleveland= p119 N ‘17 30w

  “Timely and complete.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p15 Jl ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:662 O ‘17 10w

  “Written with professional knowledge.”

       + =Pratt= p14 O ‘17 10w

         =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ja ‘18 20w

  “An authoritative work.”

       + =St Louis= 15:364 O ‘17 20w

  “So far as skill may be learned from a book, it may be learned from
  this volume.”

       + =Spec= 118:104 Ja 27 ‘17 350w


=LONGSTRETH, THOMAS MORRIS.= Adirondacks. il *$2.50 (3½c) Century 917.47
17-25281

  “There are but two kinds of travelers; those who enjoy the road, and
  those who think they shall have enjoyment at the end of it. To the
  latter pass the time of day good-naturedly enough, but reserve the
  former for your company.” (Preface) So two friends walked, motored,
  canoed, climbed, sailed and camped in every part of New York state’s
  natural park. This volume is the outcome of their wanderings which in
  addition to generous guide-book material gives an account of the early
  settlement in the Adirondacks of Napoleon’s brothers, tells of the
  different Indian tribes and their warfare, of Trudeau, Stevenson,
  Dewey, Warner and others whose names are associated with the region,
  and of the present-day work of the state’s conservation commission.
  The illustrations, reproduced photographs, show the grandeur and
  loveliness of the region at their best.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:92 D ‘17

  “Written in a pleasant style and well illustrated.”

       + =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 40w

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 8 ‘17 110w

  “Mr Longstreth is not a Thoreau, but he is a first-rate observer and
  an amusing raconteur.”

       + =New Repub= 13:131 D 1 ‘17 90w

  “Mr Longstreth is a schoolmaster who has occupied his holiday time for
  many seasons in open-air living and journeying. He has spent more than
  one summer in the Adirondacks. ... The result is a book that is at
  once the record of a jolly summer, a history and description of the
  Adirondacks, and a succinct guide to those who would learn of its
  beauties and enjoyments at first hand. Mr Longstreth’s leisurely style
  has real charm—a quality not always to be found in a book so full of
  information as this.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:10 Ja 13 ‘18 710w

  “Mr Longstreth’s book is most informal, sprightly, and vivacious, yet
  abounding in matter-of-fact detail of the sort most needed by the
  tourist.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:551 N ‘17 130w


=LORIMER, NORMA OCTAVIA.= By the waters of Africa; with introd. by
Douglas Sladen. il *$3.50 Stokes 916.7 (Eng ed 17-31878)

  “A woman traveler’s account of what is going on to-day in British East
  Africa—how the settlers and government officers live and go about, and
  how the country is being slowly developed. An interesting feature of
  the book is the description of the famous African lakes, Victoria
  Nyanza and Albert.”—R of Rs

  “Perhaps the homeliness of home-letters adds to the charm of the book,
  which, in spite of its faults of style, does tell of the common things
  which a man would have never thought of describing.” N. H. D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p9 O 13 ‘17 850w

  “Great praise is due this lady who, in spite of many dangers, has done
  such remarkable exploring and given us such interesting information
  about it.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:574 D 23 ‘17 370w

       + =R of Rs= 56:552 N ‘17 60w

  “Miss Lorimer in her light-hearted pages from a diary gives perhaps a
  truer picture of daily life in these great colonies than we find in
  more serious works.”

       + =Spec= 119:64 Jl 21 ‘17 100w

  “Unfortunately, she has accepted every piece of casual gossip about
  the history of the country without investigation. Those who will bear
  this in mind, and want merely an easily digested story of a woman’s
  experiences and adventures in both the towns and the back-veld of this
  amazingly interesting colony, will find Miss Lorimer an entertaining
  guide.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p290 Je 21 ‘17 450w


=LOTI, PIERRE, pseud. (LOUIS MARIE JULIEN VIAUD).= War; tr. from the
French by Marjorie Laurie. *$1.25 (2c) Lippincott 940.91 17-18154

  A book of war sketches written between August, 1914, and April, 1916.
  Among them are: Two poor little nestlings of Belgium; A gay little
  scene at the battle front; Another scene at the battle front; An
  evening at Ypres; At the general headquarters of the Belgian army; At
  Rheims: All-souls’ day with the armies at the front; At Soissons; Two
  Gorgon heads.

  “The book is interesting throughout, and the translator’s share has
  been well done.”

       + =Ath= p260 My ‘17 90w

         =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 60w

  “In the perusal of this new volume by Loti, it is brought home to one
  again how inexplicably and beautifully his manner and matter are
  fused. He treats of the usual subjects, but in the atmosphere of this
  book, one sees everything bathed and refreshed.”

       + =Dial= 63:400 O 25 ‘17 330w

  “In this book Pierre Loti is at his literary best, plus a tender
  genuine sympathy for his countrymen and their Belgian neighbors and a
  bitter scorn and hate for the German spirit that has outraged Belgium
  and France. Yet he seeks to maintain at least a mask of artistic
  restraint.”

       + =Lit D= 55:37 S 15 ‘17 250w

  “His pictures of the men in the trenches, the wounded, the refugees,
  etc., are indeed trivial and pallid compared with the narratives
  written by dozens of men who, before the conflict, were quite unknown
  to literature. The prevailing note is somewhat effeminate, strident,
  and hysterical.”

       — =Nation= 105:181 Ag 16 ‘17 290w

  “It is not a coherent book, it is episodic, a scrap-book, a
  hodge-podge of emotions, judgments, reports. And this constitutes the
  book’s special charm and value. It is a glimpse into the mind of a
  highly sensitive and perhaps overcivilized man who has been deeply
  shaken by the tragedy of his native land and all the world. ... This
  is the war’s book—the war has made use of the delicate and sensitive
  instrument that is the mind of the author of ‘Pêcheur d’Islande.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:246 Jl I ‘17 470w

  “Those familiar with his rather dreamy and saccharine descriptions of
  Turkey, Palestine, Japan, and the South Sea islands will be a little
  surprised, we think, at the comparative terseness of phrase in this
  volume. The descriptions are of war especially as it affects little
  children, the Sisters of Mercy, the wounded soldiers, and the exiled
  rulers.”

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 110w

  “M. Loti’s book by virtue of the almost feminine fineness of
  perception, the exquisiteness of imagery and the sympathetic
  tenderness by which his pages are graced, will make an impression on
  the reader’s memory. The only occasions on which Loti is unworthy of
  himself are when he permits himself bitter and scurrilous personal
  attacks upon the Kaiser and the Crown prince.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 320w


=LOUGH, WILLIAM HENRY.= Business finance. *$3 (1½c) Ronald 332 17-14250

  “This book, as its name indicates, is concerned with the every-day
  financial problems of the private business concern. The point of view
  taken throughout is that of an organizer or financial manager of an
  enterprise. While the book deals primarily with business conditions
  and financial practice in the United States, it includes many
  references also to the experience and practice of other countries
  which may yield suggestions of value to American business men.”
  (Preface) The book is made up of five parts: Finance and business;
  Capital; Securing capital; Internal financial management; Financial
  abuses and involvements. The author is president of the Business
  training corporation, New York city. He is also author of a work on
  “Corporation finance.”

  “Compactly conveyed information.”

       + =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 40w

  “A book which takes rank as one of the important accounting books of
  the year. Its subject is not new, of course, as it treats of problems
  which arise every day in private business concerns, but it is a
  pioneer work in that it is the first attempt we have seen to assemble
  and co-ordinate data relating to methods of financing business
  enterprises and from such data to deduce proper and scientific
  procedure. ... The chapter on financial standards is of decided
  interest in connection with the proposed statistical library to be
  established under the endowment fund of the American institute of
  accountants. ... Not the least interesting feature of this book is the
  manner in which Mr Lough has driven home his points by numerous
  illustrations taken from famous (or infamous?) failures in commercial
  history. Concrete instances are worth many pages of theory to clinch
  an argument.” W. H. L.

       + =Journal of Accountancy= 24:153 Ag ‘17 1100w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:689 O ‘17 40w

         =St Louis= 15:321 S ‘17 30w


=LOVAT-FRASER, JAMES ALEXANDER.= Henry Dundas, viscount Melville. il
*$1.10 Putnam (Eng ed 17-13682)

  “To portray a personality rather than to describe a political career,
  to delineate a character rather than to unfold a history, J. A.
  Lovat-Fraser has written a slender volume dealing with the life and
  activities of Henry Dundas, Viscount Melville.” (Boston Transcript)
  “The shrewd Scottish lawyer was for long the friend and chief
  colleague of the younger Pitt, ruled Scotland and India, managed the
  great war for some years, and was first lord of the admiralty till six
  months before Trafalgar.” (Spec)

  “Mr Lovat-Fraser has written a discriminating and interesting
  biography of Dundas as a parliamentarian, as the holder of various
  offices of cabinet rank, and as a figure in social life in London and
  Edinburgh. But Dundas ranks with Newcastle and George III, as one of
  the three great political bosses of the eighteenth century; and
  despite Mr Lovat-Fraser’s book, we are still waiting for adequate
  studies of the methods and achievements of all these three bosses.” E:
  Porritt

 *   + – =Am Hist R= 23:212 O ‘17 520w

  “To tell the full story of the life of Henry Dundas, first Viscount
  Melville, is at present impossible. Numerous documents at the Public
  record office and in other quarters await investigation before a
  complete account of Melville’s career can be attempted. The author’s
  object, therefore, is, from the materials now available, ‘to delineate
  a character rather than unfold a history’; and he may fairly be said
  to have been successful.”

       + =Ath= p49 Ja ‘17 70w

  “Mr Lovat-Fraser’s volume is a concise summary of his life, although
  it scarcely succeeds in presenting a character and personality rather
  than a political career.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Jl 21 ‘17 880w

  “J. A. Lovat-Fraser’s excellent description of parliamentary political
  corruption in Scotland in the eighteenth century explains how it was
  that Dundas was able to rise and then to hold such autocratic power
  north of the Tweed that he was commonly known as ‘King Harry the
  ninth.’”

       + =Nation= 105:350 S 27 ‘17 230w

  “Mr Lovat-Fraser resents Mr Fortescue’s denunciations of Dundas as one
  of the worst war ministers we have ever had, but he attempts no
  definite reply to the charge, presumably because it cannot be
  disproved. Dundas believed in scattering small bodies of troops over
  the whole theatre of war—a policy which cost us dearly in blood and
  treasure, especially in the West Indies. In this respect, and in
  others, he was Pitt’s evil genius.”

         =Spec= 117:810 D 23 ‘16 200w


=LOW, SIDNEY JAMES MARK.= Italy in the war. il *$1.75 Longmans 940.91
16-24919

  “Our knowledge of Italy’s part in the war has been limited. We have
  the more reason, therefore, to welcome a book that holds the promise
  of a notable enlargement of that acquaintance and understanding. ...
  It outlines the history of the country, political and military, since
  August, 1914. It makes plain the hope of the Italy of the future. It
  presents the problems and the circumstance of Italy’s part in the
  world conflict. ... In his study of the progress of the war Mr Low not
  only points out the necessary differences between the Italian battle
  lines and methods of fighting and those in France and Flanders, but
  shows where the Italian strength has been and where its weakness,
  where its mistakes have been made and lessons learned, and describes
  in detail the various steps in the conflict.”—N Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:307 Ap ‘17

  “More than the majority of war books his seems to offer worthwhile
  information.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p14 Ap 7 ‘17 250w

  “So far, this is the most informing book from the Italian side.”

       + =Ind= 90:380 My 26 ‘17 150w

  “A comprehensive study of Italian conditions, strategy, fighting. ...
  An interesting feature of his book, too, is the information that Mr
  Low has to give us about Austria and the Austrian part in the war. ...
  The book is illustrated, too, with excellent photographs from the
  Italian headquarters photographic department.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:141 Ap 15 ‘17 500w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p560 N 23 ‘16 380w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:124 Ap ‘17 40w


=LOWE, CORINNE MARTIN.= Confessions of a social secretary. il *$1.25
(1c) Harper 17-5813

  Those who delight in reading of the private affairs of that limited
  section of the social body that is labeled Society will find much to
  interest them in this book. It gives what appears to be an honest
  account of the inner workings of the households of a society leader,
  including town house, country house and Newport cottage. There are
  details regarding the management of servants, the arrangement of house
  parties, the planning of dinners, etc. Society, if this be a true
  picture, must be a deadly dull affair! There is a slight thread of
  fiction in the story of the rich young girl who chose to marry a real
  man. The title of the serial publication of these confessions was
  “This is the life.”

  “The book is written in a humorous, readable manner, with more than
  one touch of real character drawing and a moral in the futility of the
  life that strives for nothing better than social pre-eminence—and
  attains it.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 4 ‘17 170w

  “One must be curious indeed about the doings of this set to be
  diverted by the detail of their domestic arrangements; these details
  Miss Lowe presents with photographic candor.”

         =Dial= 62:314 Ap 5 ‘17 230w

       + =Lit D= 54:1855 Je 16 ‘17 170w

  “Its thread of fiction is not without charm, but its interest and its
  conspicuousness alike are due to its authenticity. There is nothing
  fictitious about this record; the anecdotes are true stories; the
  people are real and may, with no great effort, be identified if one
  knows enough; the descriptions are photographic.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:78 Mr 4 ‘17 400w


=LOWELL, AMY.= Tendencies in modern American poetry. il *$2.50 Macmillan
811 17-25828

  Amy Lowell, herself a leading exponent of the new in poetry, writes of
  six fellow poets: Edwin Arlington Robinson; Robert Frost; Edgar Lee
  Masters; Carl Sandburg; “H. D.” and John Gould Fletcher. In her
  preface Miss Lowell says, “What sets the poets of to-day apart from
  those of the Victorian era is an entire difference of outlook. Ideas
  believed to be fundamental have disappeared and given place to others.
  And as poetry is the expression of the heart of man, so it reflects
  this change to its smallest particle. It has been my endeavour in
  these essays to follow this evolution, in the movement as a whole, and
  also in the work of the particular poets who compose it. I have tried
  to show what has led each of these men to adopt the habit of mind
  which now characterizes him, why he has been forced out of one order
  into another; how his ideas have gradually taken form in his mind, and
  in what way he expresses this form in his work.” A bibliography of the
  works of the poets represented closes the book, and there is an
  interesting photogravure portrait of each.

  “An excellent critical estimate.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:87 D ‘17

         =Cleveland= p4 Ja ‘18 70w

  “In her ‘Tendencies in modern American poetry’ Miss Lowell is
  emphatically ‘there’; there in heart, mind, and spirit: there with her
  faith and her reasons for it; there with her polemical aptitudes and
  her full employment of them; on the spot, up to date, with her eye on
  the poetical clock, to the last second of the latest minute.” H: B.
  Fuller

     + — =Dial= 63:444 N 8 ‘17 1500w

  “To meet the ordinary extraordinary ignorance about poets and poetry
  nothing could be more useful and valuable. When Miss Lowell is not
  busy with amateurish ethnology and ‘atavism’ and evolution and
  pseudo-science, she is one of the best expositors that modern poetry
  could have. And it is for her sympathetic exposition of the things she
  likes rather than her ineffectual announcement of a system and a
  touchstone that her book deserves to be read.” F. H.

     + — =New Repub= 13:52 N 10 ‘17 1800w

  “The outstanding fault of the book lies in the fact that Miss Lowell
  has cast herself into double and conflicting rôles—those of critic and
  propagandist. It becomes a certainty that she is not looking at her
  subject from an unbiased standpoint, but, instead, that the book is
  written to bolster up the case for imagism.” Clement Wood

     – + =N Y Call= p15 N 25 ‘17 1400w

  “‘Tendencies in modern American poetry’ is a book that needed to be
  written, and it is doubtful if any one else in America besides Amy
  Lowell could have written it. She has brought to the task not only
  critical insight and independence of spirit, but a personal
  acquaintance with the poets she has discussed. This has served to
  enlarge her view, not to guide her judgments.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:481 N 18 ‘17 1900w


=LOWNDES, MARIE ADELAIDE (BELLOC) (MRS FREDERIC SAWREY-LOWNDES).= Lilla:
a part of her life. *$1.35 (1½c) Doran 17-10163

  A story based on a possible situation growing out of the war. Lilla is
  a delicate, reticent woman whose marriage to Robert Singleton has been
  uneventful and colorless, altho not unhappy. Making her home with his
  people, she has found it necessary to repress her own personality
  until she hardly knows what strong emotion can mean. It is after the
  report of her husband’s death early in 1914, while she herself is
  taken up with war work, that she meets Dare Carteret. They are married
  a short five weeks after their first meeting. Lilla, to whom love had
  been unknown, has learned its meaning. Then in the midst of her great
  happiness Robert Singleton returns. The story closes with Lilla in
  France and with one of the two men involved in her tragedy starting
  out with Kitchener on his ill-fated voyage.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:404 Je ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 4 ‘17 1250w

  “It is disappointing to find the introduction of characters wholly
  extraneous to the subject in hand and not even indirectly promoting
  the action, yet in whom the author attempts to create an interest by
  long explanations concerning their earlier lives.”

     – + =Cath World= 106:106 O ‘17 550w

  “There are many vivid pictures of London in war time, especially
  dramatic and thrilling being that of the first Zeppelin raid. The
  story moves quietly and rapidly, through emotional climaxes of many
  kinds that are always tense and gripping and incidents that would be
  bizarre against any but their fateful war background, to its tragic
  conclusion. But out of the mangled and smashed human happiness upon
  which it closes there rises the note of spiritual triumph.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:113 Ap 1 ‘17 480w

  “The book is ably and sincerely written, and there is a dignity in Mrs
  Belloc Lowndes’s handling of her characters which gives them both
  interest and stability.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p476 O 5 ‘16 350w


=LOYSON, PAUL HYACINTHE.= Gods in the battle; tr. from the French by
Lady Frazer; with an introd. by H. G. Wells. *3s 6d Hodder & Stoughton,
London 940.91 (Eng ed 17-25626)

  The author is the son of Père Hyacinthe, the great preacher, and was,
  before the war, “a rational pacifist” and the editor of Les Droits de
  l’Homme. Since 1914, he has devoted himself to speaking and working in
  the cause of the Allies in France, England, Holland and elsewhere.
  “This collection of ‘Open letters’ to a great variety of persons
  appeared originally under the title ‘Étes-vous neutres devant le
  crime?’ A considerable portion of the book, however (104 pages), is
  devoted to ‘The Roman Rolland case’—appeals and criticisms and other
  matter connected with the attitude towards the war of M. Rolland, as
  shown in his ‘Above the battle’ and elsewhere. ‘Notes’ on the contents
  of the book at the end occupy 45 pages. Neither author nor translator
  receives any benefit from the sale of the volume; M. Loyson’s fees for
  the rights of translation has been given by him to the British Red
  cross fund.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

         =Pittsburgh= 22:762 N ‘17 40w

  “No Englishman could have written this book, but we must get our
  insular minds to realise that there is more than one way of doing a
  thing. The popular style of to-day in England rather tends to
  telegraphese than to sustained efforts of argument, irony, and
  rhetoric. ... M. Loyson fortifies his statements throughout with notes
  and references, especially regarding the case of M. Rolland. ... M.
  Rolland, on the evidence here set out at length, is clearly convicted
  of dodging and paltering.”

       + =Sat R= 123:503 Je 2 ‘17 680w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p107 Mr 1 ‘17 80w

  “We do not write in M. Loyson’s manner, or, if we do, we do it ill.
  But M. Loyson does it well, for it is his natural way of expressing
  himself. He can make the grand gesture without becoming absurd. ...
  With all its fire it is never spiteful even against the German people.
  M. Loyson is still a pacifist and a gentleman. The translation is all
  the more successful because Lady Frazer, herself a Frenchwoman, has
  not tried to make it too English.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p123 Mr 15 ‘17 1000w


=LUCAS, SIR CHARLES PRESTWOOD.= Beginnings of English overseas
enterprise; a prelude to the empire. *$2.90 Oxford 382 17-20009

  “There has been much study and writing on special periods in the
  history of the English chartered commercial companies, but almost no
  attempt to give a continuous narrative of the whole career of any one
  of them. The work of Sir Charles Lucas, which endeavors to tell the
  story of three of the earliest companies, is therefore a welcome and
  important contribution to the literature of the subject. These three
  are the Merchants of the staple, the Eastland merchants, and the
  Merchant adventurers. The first is perforce, for lack of materials,
  very brief, and the second a slight, almost an outline sketch; the
  work is therefore practically a history of the Merchant adventurers of
  England from their obscure origin in the Netherlands in the fourteenth
  century to their dissolution, after at least four centuries of
  continuous existence, at Hamburg in 1808.”—Am Hist R

  “It is written with the ability and mastery of the trained historian.”
  E: P. Cheyney

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:381 Ja ‘18 890w

       + =Nation= 106:16 Ja 3 ‘18 1200w

  “Their story as unfolded in Sir Charles Lucas’s concise but weighty
  monograph, is not only illuminating as regards the past but pregnant
  with lessons for the future after the war. The ‘Beginnings of English
  overseas enterprise’ is a real and important contribution to that
  history which is ‘philosophy teaching by examples.’”

       + =Spec= 118:38 Jl 14 ‘17 1050w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p317 Jl 5 ‘17 1900w


=LUCAS, ST JOHN WELLES LUCAS.= April folly. *$1.50 Dutton

  “In ‘April folly’ Mr St John Lucas continues the story of Dennis Yorke
  which he began some years ago in ‘The first round.’ The central theme
  of the first part was the relation of Dennis, a wayward boy and an
  artist, to his father, ‘The Apostle of the respectable.’ This sequel
  begins with the funeral of Mr Yorke and the return of Dennis to his
  artistic friends in Chelsea,—Tellier, and Sandys, and others. Now that
  the death of his father has set him free to develop his musical genius
  Dennis’s artistic progress is great; but he is still very much in the
  making, serious with that immense seriousness of youth which Mr St
  John Lucas can describe so accurately and sympathetically, drawn one
  way by his art, another by the cold rectitude which he has inherited
  in the very fibres of his being.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “Mr Lucas’s version has the merit of quietly humanising materials
  which have been so often merely galvanised for an easy public.” H. W.
  Boynton

         =Bookm= 45:646 Ag ‘17 530w

  “After a decidedly well-told story, in progress, the reader suffers
  the anti-climax at the end with rebellion and dissatisfaction.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 170w

  “A first-rate analysis of calf love in London Bohemia. The only
  difficulty lies in the comparative slimness of the subject; it does
  not draw out the novelist’s resources. The whole group of Chelsea
  musicians is well sketched and we should have preferred following
  their adventures rather than turning to the sordid, pathetic little
  tragedy to which the story finally devotes its course.”

       + =Dial= 63:73 Jl 19 ‘17 170w

  “His adventures in sex take us along none of those miry ways to which
  the bold young school have now wonted us. Nevertheless, they would
  have seemed desperate enough if we had been regaled with them at the
  time of their alleged occurrence, a quarter of a century ago. ...
  ‘Yes, but what of it?’ is the mood in which this kind of story,
  however nicely done, has a way of leaving us.”

         =Nation= 105:178 Ag 16 ‘17 350w

  “The musical and artistic environment in which this drama of human
  relationships is played out to its pathetic and ironic conclusion is
  delightfully sketched.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:230 Je 17 ‘17 450w

  “Mr St John Lucas is one of the very best of our short-story writers,
  to say nothing of his excellent anthologies of French and Italian
  verse and his graceful original poems. ... He avoids the monotony of
  uniform cleverness which marks the dialogue of some excellent
  novelists. He is judicious, too, in skating over thin ice, for you
  cannot write of Bohemia without touching on its squalid fringes as
  well as its hearty camaraderie. We may note in conclusion that while
  the story is written by an artist, with a lively sympathy for artistic
  ideals, he is so impartial in dealing with normal and even Philistine
  people that we come away with a heightened respect for them.”

       + =Spec= 117:418 O 7 ‘16 800w

  “The story is told with a gentle penetration and judgment which give
  it charm; and the friends who are grouped together both in Chelsea and
  at Hampstead move and act with the pleasant ease of real companions;
  their comments on their arts are vivid and faithful.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p500 O 19 ‘16 430w


=LUEHRMANN, ADELE.= Other Brown. il *$1.35 Century 17-23048

  “A story of dual personality ... [by the author of ‘The curious case
  of Marie Dupont’]. It adds to its psychological interest, a murder, a
  mine in Mexico and a love story ending in New York.”—Ind

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:60 N ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 70w

       + =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 50w

     + — =Ind= 93:240 F 9 ‘18 50w

  “The story is unnecessarily complicated with endless twists and
  tangles. ... It is a mediocre story.” C. W.

       — =N Y Call= p14 S 23 ‘17 110w

  “‘The other Brown’ is well able to baffle and enthrall the most astute
  reader, and the personalities taking part in it are altogether
  charming.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:322 S 2 ‘17 300w

  “The author handles her plot with sufficient skill to keep the reader
  mystified—which is the only requirement of fiction of the sort. ...
  The conclusion is not entirely easy and natural.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 190w


=LUTZ, RUFUS ROLLA.= Wage earning and education. diags 50c (1c)
Cleveland foundation. Survey committee; Russell Sage foundation 370.91
16-26854

  This is a summary volume of the Cleveland survey series, presenting a
  synthesis of the results of the survey as a whole. Part 1 has chapters
  discussing some of the general phases of the subject, among them: The
  industrial education survey; Forecasting future probabilities; The
  wage earners of Cleveland; The future wage earners of Cleveland;
  Industrial training for boys in elementary schools; The junior high
  school; Trade training during the last years in school, etc. Part 2 is
  given up to summaries of the special reports.

  “The risks of such an assumption of static social and economic
  conditions are already apparent. ... The experiences of the nations at
  war, as well as developments in older American communities, raise some
  doubts about the advisability of confining the vocational training of
  women to retail selling, to the sewing trades and to limited fields of
  the more mechanical forms of office work. The least satisfactory
  portion of the report is that dealing with vocational guidance and
  school placement.” Lucile Eaves

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:903 D ‘17 370w

         =El School J= 17:525 Mr ‘17 600w

  “The volume contains independent and illuminating comment. The chapter
  on vocational guidance is one of the sanest in the whole field.”

       + =Ind= 90:518 Je 16 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17


=LYNDE, FRANCIS.= Stranded in Arcady. il *$1.35 (3c) Scribner 17-14177

  Neither Donald Prime nor Lucetta Millington knows how they happen to
  find themselves alone in the northern woods on the shore of an unknown
  lake. Each tells a story of preceding events that ends in haziness.
  That they have been separately drugged, kidnapped and left together in
  this lonely place is the only explanation. But the story has to do not
  so much with this mystery as with the adaptation of two sophisticated
  young people, one a novelist, the other a teacher of domestic science,
  to primitive conditions.

  “Appeared in Scribner’s Magazine.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:27 O ‘17

  “Ingenious and unusual.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 9 ‘17 160w

       + =Cath World= 105:539 Jl ‘17 100w

  “There was a time when it seemed as though the author of ‘The
  honorable Senator Sage-Brush’ might intend to use his very marked
  gifts as a story teller for the serious presentation and
  interpretation of certain phases of our American life, but Mr Lynde
  has apparently decided instead to devote himself to a lighter kind of
  fiction. However, this little romance is interesting, amusing, and
  well written, and will prove a very pleasant means of whiling away a
  few idle hours.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:214 Je 3 ‘17 330w

  “So well told that one is willing to forget mere improbability.”

       + =Outlook= 116:304 Je 20 ‘17 70w

       + =Pratt= p51 O ‘17 10w

  “This story is different from and less spontaneous than the bulk of Mr
  Lynde’s other work. Still the action is rapid and a spirit of
  comradeship and good nature pervades it.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 230w


=LYNDON, LAMAR.= Hydro-electric power. 2v il v 1 *$5; v 2 *$3.50 McGraw
621.31 16-23566

  “The work, as may be inferred from the title is quite general in
  scope, covering both the hydraulic and electrical phases of design.
  Volume 1 is entitled ‘Hydraulic development and equipment,’ and volume
  2 is entitled ‘Electrical equipment and transmission.’ However, it
  should not be concluded that the two volumes are entirely independent
  of each other. As the author puts it in the preface to volume 2, ‘this
  volume forms a companion to, and is, in fact, a continuation of volume
  1. There is no definite point of division between the two volumes, and
  this treatise was divided into two sections solely to make it less
  cumbersome and more convenient for reference.’”—Engin Rec

         =Cleveland= p109 S ‘17 10w

  “Vol. 1 of this work is about the most concise treatment of hydraulic
  engineering from the standpoint of design and construction that is now
  available. ... The work is notable for its completeness rather than
  the newness of material presented, since it incorporates fundamental
  and standard formulas that have been used in the design of water-power
  developments. In interpretation of this information lie the practical
  difference and usefulness of the book as compared with other works
  available. ... Vol. 2 forms a very good supplement to the first volume
  but cannot be considered an adequate treatise on the electrical design
  and installation of station equipment or on transmission systems.”

       + =Elec World= 69:665 Ap 7 ‘17 350w (Review of v 1 and 2)

  “Students and practising engineers interested in the design of
  hydroelectric-power plants will wish to add this book to their
  libraries. ... On the whole, it may be said that the author’s work is
  well done. In scope the book is excellent; it touches on almost all
  phases of plant design and defines the principles governing design
  very well. ... A number of very good charts and diagrams are included.
  The illustrations are excellent, and the publishers have done their
  part well.”

       + =Engin Rec= 75:235 F 10 ‘17 500w (Review of v 1 and 2)


=LYNN, ETHEL.= Adventures of a woman hobo. *$1.50 (3c) Doran 17-15672

  The author tells of a trip from Chicago to San Francisco taken in
  company with her husband in 1908. She was threatened with
  tuberculosis, and looked on a return to California, her native state,
  as her only salvation. Lacking funds for the journey, they started out
  to work their way, using a tandem bicycle as a means of travel. Midway
  across the plains, the tandem was abandoned. They traveled for a time
  in a prairie schooner, and finally completed the last stages of the
  journey on freight trains. The experiences described are varied and
  interesting. At the close the author reports that her health was fully
  restored and that her view point had been modified. She says, “My
  belief in the inherent kindliness and unselfishness of the human heart
  has been strengthened. ... Never again will I think it necessary to
  change human nature before we can improve social conditions.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:42 N ‘17

         =Lit D= 56:36 Ja 26 ‘18 150w

  “This book is worth the reading of all Socialists. It is a clarifying
  description of why the stranger you meet would rather knock you down
  than bid you the time of day.” L. W.

       + =N Y Call= p15 O 7 ‘17 500w

         =N Y Times= 22:258 Jl 8 ‘17 250w

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 110w


=LYTTELTON, EDITH SOPHY (BALFOUR) (MRS ALFRED LYTTELTON).= Alfred
Lyttelton. il *$4 Longmans 17-15058

  This life of Alfred Lyttelton, who died in 1913, is a particularly
  intimate biography. It is written by his wife, who says in the preface
  to part 2, “Alfred’s unique position among his contemporaries was due
  not so much to gifts of intellect as to gifts of character. His life
  was not full of adventure, nor, if measured by some standards, even of
  achievement. What he was, rather than what he did, needs to be
  portrayed. In trying to draw the picture of a man’s character, his
  affections must be described, and as truthfully as possible.” Alfred
  Lyttelton entered Parliament in 1895, was sent to South Africa as
  chairman of the Transvaal concessions commission in 1900, and in 1903
  was made secretary for the colonies.

  “Few biographies offer more chapters of constant and varied interest.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:278 Jl 29 ‘17 650w

       + =Sat R= 123:sup3 Mr 31 ‘17 1450w

  “An unusually intimate record of the man as he revealed himself to his
  family and friends. What his loss meant to his friends has already
  been declared by the tributes paid to his memory by Mr Asquith in the
  House of Commons; by the address delivered by Mr Balfour last August
  at the unveiling of the memorial tablet in St Margaret’s, Westminster;
  and by the appreciations contributed by Lord Curzon and Lord Midleton
  to the Times at the time of his death. He made fresh friends all his
  life, but never lost his older ones.”

       + =Spec= 118:388 Mr 31 ‘17 1600w

  “Alfred Lyttelton was not a great man, yet his widow has written an
  extraordinarily interesting and fascinating biography of him. Mr
  Lyttelton married two remarkable women, first, Laura Tennant, sister
  of Mrs Herbert H. Asquith, and on her death, the author of the present
  volume, who was Edith Balfour.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 2 ‘17 950w

  “She has executed her labour of love both with skill and judgment,
  throwing the strong lights in her picture upon Alfred Lyttelton’s
  incontestable splendour of character and charm of disposition, and
  leaving his ministerial rank and political achievement to furnish just
  the drapery and the background of the figure.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p139 Mr 22 ‘17 1050w




                                   M


=MABIE, HAMILTON WRIGHT.= Fruits of the spirit. *$1.25 (2c) Dodd 204
17-13307

  A collection of essays that have appeared in the Outlook during the
  past ten and more years. The preface says, “It is significant that the
  latest essays, written in 1916, during a period of great physical
  depression, are concerned with the fundamentals of faith, action and
  achievement.” A few of the titles are: The practice of immortality;
  The ultimate companionship; The prophecy of love; The larger plan; The
  child and the world; Lodgings and homes; A secret of youth; The wisdom
  of youth; The long view of life; Meeting life squarely; The test of
  courage. There is an introduction by Lyman Abbott.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:425 Jl ‘17

  “Ethical in content, hortatory in spirit, they are unexceptionable in
  matter and form and also quite undistinguished.”

     – + =Nation= 105:351 S 27 ‘17 120w

  “The essays will be found spiritually valuable, not only to the
  individual reader, but to groups, and even to congregations,
  especially in the summer when opportunity to attend ordinary church
  service is often denied.”

       + =Outlook= 116:161 My 23 ‘17 120w


=MCADIE, ALEXANDER GEORGE.= Principles of aërography. il $3 Rand 551.5
17-19384

  “‘The principles of aërography’ deals with the most recent advances in
  meteorology. ... The purpose and scope of the book are summarized in
  the opening sentence of the preface, ... to present this new knowledge
  [of about the last ten years] in a convenient form even if
  considerably condensed.’ ... The successive chapters are: ‘A brief
  history of meteorology; units and symbols; temperature scales;
  thermodynamics of the atmosphere; stratosphere and troposphere; the
  circulation of the atmosphere; the major circulations; the minor
  circulations; forecasting storms; the winds; the water vapor of the
  atmosphere; condensation; dust and microbes; atmospheric electricity;
  precipitation; floods and notable storms; frosts; [and] solar
  influences.’”—Science

  “The book is well printed on paper calculated to make the
  illustrations appear at their best. In fact, the illustrations are one
  of the chief charms of the book, for they are refreshingly new. The
  treatment of the clouds is especially good and well illustrated. The
  long chapter on atmospheric electricity, which is devoted almost
  entirely to the consideration of the thunder shower and lightning, is
  again an excellent one. ... Judged as a textbook, and thus the first
  book to be used by a student or general reader, it has many
  shortcomings. The material is not well arranged; there are too many
  omissions and not enough elementary detail in the treatment of many
  subjects.” W. I. M.

     + — =Astrophys J= 46:301 N ‘17 1100w

  “All teachers of meteorology and physical geography owe a deep debt to
  Professor McAdie for this helpful volume.” F. W.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 10 ‘17 750w

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p12 O ‘17 130w

  “Well illustrated and indexed.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:814 D ‘17 30w

  “Unfortunately, coherence and clearness seem to have been sacrificed
  to brevity in the attempt to make the book a college text. The volume
  will probably be of greatest value as a reference accompaniment to a
  well-ordered course in meteorology. As a reference book for the
  advanced student, however, it is lacking in footnotes or bibliography,
  but it offsets this with its wealth of tables computed only with
  difficulty, and of illustrations and diagrams drawn from valuable,
  inaccessible sources.” C: F. Brooks

     + — =Science= n s 46:264 S 14 ‘17 950w


=MCARTHUR, JOHN CAMPBELL.= What a company officer should know. (Harvey
military ser.) il $2 Harvey 355 17-16323

  “The officer will learn how to maintain discipline without becoming a
  martinet, to foster in his men those absolutely essential requirements
  of cleanliness and sobriety, initiative within proper restrictions,
  cheerfulness under hardship, and last but not least how to make
  thoroly understood that the good conduct and comradeship of each
  individual is responsible for the well being of the whole command. Of
  these, examples are given by way of personal anecdote, which assist in
  pointing the author’s instruction.”—Ind

         =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17

  “It is not too much to state that every reserve officer should provide
  himself with this handy guide. ... There is an excellent appendix of
  military forms and abbreviations but one wonders why a little book so
  cheaply bound and printed should cost so much.”

     + — =Ind= 91:72 Jl 14 ‘17 150w


=MACAULAY, MRS FANNIE (CALDWELL) (FRANCES LITTLE, pseud.).= Camp Jolly;
or, The secret-finders in the Grand Cañon. il *$1.25 (3c) Century
17-24510

  A story of the Grand Canyon. Three Kentucky boys, Billy Hargrave, and
  his cousin Teddy, and Rags, a young colored boy, accompany Billy’s
  father, an eminent geologist, on an exploring trip thru the canyon.
  Under the guidance of Wildcat Pete, they have many adventures, and
  Rags, with his droll comments and his amazement at everything he sees,
  furnishes much merriment for the party.

  “Well written.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:64 N ‘17

  “The record is a pleasant and mildly exciting one.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 30w

       + =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 20w

         =N Y Times= 22:565 D 16 ‘17 90w

  “A good open-air story for younger boys.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 70w


=MACBETH, MRS MADGE HAMILTON (LYONS).= Kleath. il *$1.35 (1½c) Small
17-24097

  Christopher Kleath who comes to the Klondike in the early days of the
  gold rush is something of a mystery. He is engaged as a linotype
  operator on the first newspaper published in Dawson. But he gives
  evidence of many other talents, and his manner and social bearing give
  the impression that he is, or has been, a man of the world. Then too,
  on one occasion, he shows a surprising skill in picking a lock. Clare
  Meredith, the wife of the big, fine Klondike doctor, early shows an
  interest in Kleath, but he proves impervious to her wiles. On the
  other hand, while he is plainly in love with little Goldie Meadows, he
  never tells her so. The secret of his past is dramatically explained
  in the trial scene, after he has been accused of robbing the bank.

  “It is regrettable but true that we could not lose a heart-beat during
  the course of this innocuous story.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 5 ‘17 230w

  “Her tale is mingled of humor, pathos, and sensationalism, with an
  unbecoming leaning toward dare-deviltry. It carries a certain air of
  conviction and will serve for readers whose imaginations accept the
  printed page as probable truth.”

         =Dial= 63:73 Jl 19 ‘17 80w

  “The story is a fairly good specimen of the particular class of
  fiction to which it belongs, and is sufficiently interesting to hold
  the reader’s attention.”

         =N Y Times= 22:258 Jl 8 ‘17 270w

  “The picture of conditions in Dawson city at the height of the
  Klondike gold rush is more restrained than is sometimes found in
  novels of the type.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 290w


=MCCABE, JOSEPH.= Pope’s favourite. *$1.50 (2c) Dodd 17-14139

  Pope Alexander VI, Giulia Farnese, Cesare and Lucrezia Borgia, Fra
  Savonarola and other historic personages appear in the pages of this
  novel. The author says, “I have chosen a period so rich in colour, so
  instinct with turbulent life, and so well known to us, that
  imagination had not a laborious task. I have put a little blood into
  the veins of the great dead figures of the Borgia period and restored
  the missing threads of the worn historical tapestry.” Giulia, the
  pope’s mistress, is drawn sympathetically. She appears as a young
  girl, accepting unquestioningly the customs of her time and deeply
  puzzled by Savonarola’s preachments. Lucrezia Borgia is presented in a
  new light, a weak rather than a vicious woman.

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:650 Ag ‘17 330w

  “It is not all of equal merit, but at least in the figures of this
  beautiful Giulia and of her ‘Cousin’ Cesare he has made us see a real
  man and woman of much more than ordinary fascination. He has made for
  us a brilliant historical picture.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 3 ‘17 1100w

  “Historically accurate but not very full-blooded story.”

     + — =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 30w

  “If the title cause the reader to expect a book that he will conceal
  behind a magazine in public, he will be misled. It is hardly ‘pour les
  jeunes filles,’ neither is it for the sensation seekers. It is simply
  a good historical novel—one of the best that it has been our luck to
  see in a long time.”

       + =Dial= 63:118 Ag 16 ‘17 190w

  “The picture is rich in detail, colorful, yet described with a certain
  cool aloofness, a curious lack of vitality. The reader finds himself
  calmly admiring the author’s scholarship rather than excited or
  enthralled by his narrative.”

         =N Y Times= 22:206 My 27 ‘17 400w

  “The author succeeds in making Pope Alexander a living character, but
  Cesare Borgia is only a shadow.”

     + — =Spec= 118:593 My 26 ‘17 30w

  “Mr McCabe, who writes so trenchantly on so many subjects of religion,
  history, science, and biography, here turns his busy pen to the task
  of writing a romance of a period to which he has devoted special
  study.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p107 Mr 1 ‘17 60w


=MCCABE, JOSEPH.= Romance of the Romanoffs. il *$2 (2½c) Dodd 947
17-29048

  In his first chapter the author sketches the primitive democracy of
  the early Slavs as it existed before the “inevitable military chiefs”
  had fastened their hold on the people and established the beginnings
  of autocratic government. He then proceeds with the ugly story of
  Moscovite and Romanoff rule. There is irony in his title. He says,
  “This is not a history of Russia, but the history of its autocracy as
  an episode. ... To a democratic people there can be no more congenial
  study than this exposure of the crime and failure of an autocracy. To
  any who find romance in such behaviour as kings and nobles were
  permitted to flaunt in the eyes of their people in earlier ages the
  story of the Romanoffs must be exceptionally attractive.” The story is
  carried down to the abdication of Nicholas II in 1917.

  “He takes visible delight in exposing the vices and crimes of Russia’s
  rulers and he revels in exploding time-hallowed historical
  reputations, for instance, that of Peter the Great. Although this
  denunciatory and iconoclastic tendency has its drawbacks, particularly
  in a historical study, it should be welcomed as a wholesome reaction
  against the complacencies and shams of official Russian
  historiography.” Abraham Yarmolinsky

     + — =Bookm= 46:484 D ‘17 200w

  “Mr McCabe’s book would be more useful, and the story of the Romanoffs
  could be followed more easily and intelligently, if he had appended a
  family tree of this not too familiar line of monarchs, or if he had
  even given a chronological list of the Romanoff czars.”

     + — =Dial= 64:114 Ja 31 ‘18 270w


=MCCALEB, WALTER FLAVIUS.= Happy: the life of a bee. il *75c (2c) Harper
595 17-12824

  The autobiography of a bee. The author’s purpose is to set forth the
  life of the hive, the perils, joys and adventures of honey gathering,
  in attractive story form. The book has attractive illustrations and
  decorations by Clement B. Davis.

  “A true story, its incidents being as scientifically exact as they are
  interesting.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 280w

       + =Ind= 91:229 Ag 11 ‘17 30w

       + =N Y Times= 22:314 Ag 26 ‘17 70w

  “For young readers this nature story does something like that which
  Maeterlinck’s famous book on the bee did for older people.”

       + =Outlook= 116:116 My 16 ‘17 20w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 20 ‘17 60w


=MCCANN, ALFRED WATTERSON.= Thirty cent bread; how to escape a higher
cost of living. *50c (3c) Doran 641 17-14406

  The author says, “With regulation, now, we can have all the food we
  need for home use and export to our allies, 200,000,000,000 pounds.
  Without regulation, we shall have bread cards and soup kitchens within
  a year.” He discusses the situation with regard to various foodstuffs
  and offers suggestions for their conservation.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:81 D ‘17

         =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 40w

         =New Repub= 12:280 O 6 ‘17 260w

  “His book goes into a number of interesting details on several phases
  of the ‘food problem,’ such as the classification of and speculation
  in eggs, the conservation of grain, and the preservation of
  vegetables.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:395 O 14 ‘17 150w

         =Pratt= p26 O ‘17 20w

  “A simple, convenient argument.”

       + =St Louis= 15:357 O ‘17 20w


=MCCARTER, MARGARET (HILL) (MRS WILLIAM ARTHUR MCCARTER).= Vanguards of
the plains. il *$1.40 (1½c) Harper 17-29178

  A story of Kansas and the Santa Fé trail and of the part played by
  peaceful commerce in the upbuilding of the prairie empire. On one of
  his early trips over the trail between Kansas City and Santa Fé,
  Esmond Clarenden, a pioneer merchant and trader, takes the three
  children who are his wards with him, feeling that they are safer with
  him than they would be if left alone. This is early in the ‘forties,
  when the journey is fraught with grave perils. The youngest of the
  three children, Gail Clarenden, tells the story and in following its
  development from his childhood to manhood, gives a panoramic picture
  of the growth of the West. The story has elements of historic
  interest, adventure and romance.

  “A good story of adventure, intrigue and mystery to which the
  historical background lends an added interest.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:169 F ‘18

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:496 D ‘17 70w

  “No American can read [this book] without a keener realization of what
  that security, which has been ours from our birth, means.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 5 ‘18 560w

  “The story as a whole is thrilling enough to hold any reader’s
  attention. But the value of the book lies in its pictures of early
  life on the plains and its pages from the book of the Middle West’s
  development.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:447 N 4 ‘17 650w


=MCCLELLAN, GEORGE BRINTON.= Mexican war diary. il *$1 (5c) Princeton
univ. press 973.6 17-11694

  This war diary begins with McClellan’s departure from West Point in
  1846 and is continued thru the battle of Cerro Gordo in 1847. The
  editor, Professor Myers of Princeton, is at work on a life of General
  McClellan, and this diary forms a part of the collection of manuscript
  material in the Library of Congress which he is using as a basis.

  “This diary was decidedly worthy of publication. The true character of
  our ‘citizen soldiery’ is presented with a tinge of prejudice but
  essentially in colors true to the original. And much interesting
  information is given in reference to certain episodes of the Mexican
  war—particularly the march from Matamoros to Victoria and Tampico (pp.
  21-50), the siege of Vera Cruz (pp. 53-73), and the battle of Cerro
  Gordo (pp. 79-90). In his account of this battle McClellan makes a
  distinctly important contribution to the history of Pillow’s
  operations.” J. H. Smith

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:220 O ‘17 370w

  “Well worth publishing, for it gives a perfect picture of the young
  army officer who was to become in the Civil war the idol of the Army
  of the Potomac.”

       + =Cath World= 105:407 Je ‘17 280w

  “Besides containing a remarkable revelation of General McClellan’s
  much debated personality, and graphic pictures of the march on Mexico
  City from Vera Cruz, fully explains, at that early date, the unwisdom
  of employing raw volunteer forces in active military operations.”

       + =Ind= 91:34 Jl 7 ‘17 70w

         =Lit D= 55:33 S 1 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:531 Je ‘17 60w

  “Gives vivid glimpses of the campaign of 1846 and makes clearer than
  ever the failure and futility of the ‘volunteer system’ as a national
  reliance in time of war.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:666 Je ‘17 60w

  “From it we gain an intimate view of the Mexican war not to be found
  in ordinary books of history.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 11 ‘17 300w


=MCCLENDON, JESSE FRANCIS.= Physical chemistry of vital phenomena. il
*$2 Princeton univ. press 541 17-13355

  A work for students and investigators in the biological and medical
  sciences. The author is assistant professor of physiology in the
  University of Minnesota and the work is based on lectures and
  laboratory work given to graduate and advanced medical students in
  that institution. “The purpose of the book is not to go far into
  physical chemistry but to develop a tool for physiological research.
  Lengthy discussions of debated questions are avoided by tentatively
  accepting the hypothesis which fits the most facts, until a better one
  appears. For further discussion of any subject the reader is referred
  to the literature list and index.” (Preface) The literature list is
  extensive, occupying thirty-six pages, with a subject index (to the
  list) of seven pages following. There is no index to the text.

  “If the reader of this book, as is certainly advisable, has had a
  course in physical chemistry, he will find occasion to use marginal
  question marks, or to make corrections, in a number of places. Defects
  of the sort pointed out are, however, only slight and somewhat
  excusable misadventures in the first edition of a volume which has so
  much to commend it, and which is a noteworthy and valuable
  contribution to scientific literature.”

     + — =Nation= 105:275 S 6 ‘17 550w

  “As a whole the book exhibits the defects as well as the merits of its
  extreme brevity and condensation. The author evidently wishes to be as
  concise as possible, and largely for this reason his discussion and
  statements of fact frequently appear dogmatic and lacking in much
  needed qualifications. Certain explanations are incomplete or
  otherwise open to criticism.” R. S. Lillie

     + — =Science= n s 46:565 D 7 ‘17 1250w


=MCCLINTOCK, ALEXANDER.= Best o’ luck. *$1 (4c) Doran 941.5 17-28776

  Tells how a fighting Kentuckian won the thanks of Britain’s king and a
  D.M.C. He was a sergeant in the “Canadian overseas” and rendered
  conspicuous service during a raid on the enemy’s trenches and, later,
  in rescuing wounded men at great risk. Contents: Training for the war;
  The bombing raid; “Over the top and give ‘em hell”; Shifted to the
  Somme; Wounded in action; A visit from the king.

  “Told in the picturesque style of the better class of sporting
  writers, abounding in humorous, pathetic and thrilling incidents, the
  story is sure to gain large favor with those who wish to understand
  war as it is.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p11 N 28 ‘17 280w

  “A random set of reminiscences, a trifle wordy, but sincere.”

     + — =Dial= 64:120 Ja 31 ‘18 170w

  “Though less comprehensive than Empey’s ‘Over the top,’ it deserves a
  place beside that genial chronicle, because of its absolute honesty,
  its utter realism, and its unabashed humor. There are several chapters
  devoted to his training as a bomb thrower. These pages are of
  particular interest and value because of the fact that the American
  troops in France are being specially trained for bombing.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:532 D 2 ‘17 550w

  “Narrated in simple style by one who ‘don’t lay claim to being much of
  a writer,’ but who has a story to tell.”

       + =Outlook= 117:387 N 7 ‘17 60w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 620w


=MCCLUNG, MRS NELLIE LETITIA (MOONEY).= Next of kin; those who wait and
wonder. *$1.25 (2½c) Houghton 940.91 17-30691

  Mrs McClung is an Alberta woman who, from the public platform thruout
  our states, is telling the story of Canada in suffrage and war. “Times
  like these” had its leader of the herd, Mike, who planted his feet
  firmly in the watering trough and kept the other cattle from drinking.
  Here was a clearly drawn prototype of the political leader who blocked
  women in their struggle for the ballot. “Next of kin” has a little
  no-breed hen, a philosopher with personality, in spite of frozen feet
  and lack of pedigree. “She went down to her death with a smile,
  hustling and cheerful to the last.” It is so with the throng of
  obscure war-mothers whose hearts are wrung as they see their young
  sons cheated out of boyhood to assume men’s burdens on distant
  battlefields, yet who heroically make the sacrifice. Pervading every
  page is the mother spirit, triumphant in giving “bread and blood as
  the sacrament of empire.”

  “Gives a splendid idea of the effort which Canada has made, especially
  the women’s part.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:170 F ‘18

  “Several times this reaction of a woman to wartime conditions in
  Canada gives promise of some understanding of this conflict and the
  causes that underlie it, and of wars in general and their motivating
  forces. But no sooner are our hopes raised by such a suggestive flash
  than she plunges us down into the depths of sentimental maunderings.”
  C. W.

     + — =N Y Call= p19 D 20 ‘17 150w

  “The book is a curious mixture of sound sense and nonsense, of wit and
  banality, of sympathetic understanding and sentimental sophistry.
  Withal it is marked by that sincerity which one finds in so many
  pseudo-public documents, such as the letters written by the farm women
  of the United States in response to a governmental inquiry. The sense
  of cheer which makes the interspersed verse reminiscent of that of
  Ella Wheeler Wilcox, should give it a large vogue; while the
  smoothness of the style and the simplicity of the stories can only
  serve to contribute further to its popularity.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:490 N 25 ‘17 370w


=MCCLURE, SAMUEL SIDNEY.= Obstacles to peace. *$2 (1½c) Houghton 940.91
17-8588

  The obstacles to peace are of two kinds, says the author. First there
  are the questions of territory, access to the sea, etc.; second, the
  states of mind of the peoples at war. Of the second he says, “I have
  tried to describe the extraordinary hatreds, contempts, and horrors
  that divide the warring nations; so I have given much space to the
  records of alleged atrocities. The most important single fact in
  Europe today is the feeling caused by belief in these records. This
  feeling constitutes the greatest single obstacle to peace.” The most
  important “obstacle” of the first group is Turkey. “The fate of Turkey
  is the issue of this war.” The author presents many original documents
  and writes from personal experience in the warring countries.

  “Mr McClure also presents a summary which covers the crises of the
  decade that followed 1904 and appends a discussion of Anglo-German
  relations after 1912. From the historian’s point of view this is the
  most important portion of his work. The book is primarily designed for
  the general public, but every teacher of recent European history will
  be glad to have it on his shelves.” C: Seymour

       + =Am Hist R= 23:214 O ‘17 430w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:395 Je ‘17

  “On the editorial side of this book, its most important quality is Mr
  McClure’s keen understanding of the fact that war is first of all a
  state of mind ... engendered, made possible and carried on by states
  of mind. ... A truer, more deeply fundamental thing was never said.
  And yet Mr McClure’s book is one of the very few books about the war
  in which this truth has been emphasised, and in which it is made the
  cornerstone of all argument.” G. I. Colbron

       + =Bookm= 45:321 My ‘17 1250w

  “The Belgian invasion and atrocities have left Mr McClure under no
  illusion as to German procedure, and his most interesting comment
  bears upon the hypnotic national illustration of that people. This is
  perhaps the striking contribution which Mr McClure gives us in all his
  500 pages.” B. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 24 ‘17 450w

         =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 60w

  “Mr McClure has many faults. He is an incurable gossip. He writes with
  astonishing carelessness. He continually obtrudes his own personality
  into events where it has no place. But, again and again, he has some
  useful document to transcribe, some valuable fact to record; and for
  these alone his book would be worth reading. As an attempt at
  analyzing the real aims of the belligerents the book is a failure.” H.
  J. Laski

     + — =Dial= 62:472 My 31 ‘17 430w

  “A war book which, in certain aspects, is one of the most deeply
  impressive works we have had on this greatest human drama.”

       + =Ind= 90:470 Je 9 ‘17 230w

       + =Lit D= 55:40 O 13 ‘17 290w

  “In respect of its contents this book is probably the book of the year
  in the field of the literature of the war.”

     + + =Nation= 105:38 Jl 12 ‘17 1950w

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ap 15 ‘17 420w

  “Perhaps the most conspicuous feature of the book is the emphasis
  which Mr McClure gives to the matter of Turkey. He found, and in this
  book he makes public for the first time, the details of the
  Anglo-Franco-German agreement of 1914 with regard to Asia Minor.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:121 Ap 1 ‘17 350w

  “A book of great historic value; a book for editors and
  librarians. ... The contrast between Georg Brandes’s ‘The world at
  war’ and S. S. McClure’s ‘Obstacles to peace’ is interesting and
  suggestive. Georg Brandes, the pacifist, gives us his conclusions
  without facts to support them; S. S. McClure gives us facts and leaves
  the reader to draw his own conclusion.”

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 130w

  “The book strives to be and is eminently fair, but the result is a
  stirring arraignment of Prussian militarism. This is trenchant in
  itself, and is also interesting because Mr McClure has been accused of
  pro-Germanism by certain sympathizers with the Allies.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 330w

  Reviewed by Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 38:554 S 22 ‘17 600w

  “Its value is enhanced because it deals not only with these matters
  from the point of view of the Allies, but from time to time gives us
  some indication of the German point of view. Perhaps the most
  attractive chapters are those towards the end, dealing with France,
  and one entitled ‘Heroic voices.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p574 N 29 ‘17 1000w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:185 Je ‘17 70w


=MCCLURE, WALLACE MITCHELL.= State constitution-making. $3 Marshall & B.
342.7 16-17760

  “Though designed especially as a contribution to the problem of
  revising the state constitution in Tennessee, [this work] will
  nevertheless have a wider field of usefulness. Parts 1 and 3 give a
  history of constitutional development in Tennessee and a discussion of
  peculiar Tennessee problems, but part 2, entitled ‘Current thought and
  action upon constitutional problems,’ will be found serviceable by all
  students of state government. The author brings together in convenient
  form the state constitutional provisions on such subjects as
  elections, organization of state governments, the short ballot, the
  budget, municipal and county government, organization and procedure of
  the legislature, direct legislation by the electorate, etc.”—Pol Sci Q

         =Cleveland= p131 N ‘16 70w

  “Mr McClure’s effort is worthy of high praise. He presented to his
  fellow-citizens a history of constitution making in this country and
  an analysis of our federal and state constitutions which should have
  convinced them that the constitution of their own state was in sore
  need of revision.”

       + =Nation= 104:606 My 17 ‘17 370w

  “He has succeeded admirably in concealing any partisan bias, if he has
  one, and has presented opposing views with a clarity and fairness that
  are greatly to be commended.”

       + =Pol Sci Q= 31:661 D ‘16 160w

  “There is probably no other volume in print that contains so much of
  this material systematically digested and arranged.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:216 F ‘17 120w


=MCCOMB, SAMUEL.=[2] God’s meaning in life. *75c (3½c) Harper 231
17-25739

  Man’s need of God is the central thought in this book of short essays.
  Especially, the author holds, is this need making itself felt at the
  present time. The chapter titles are: “Do we need God?” God and our
  ideals: God the great companion; God and regeneration; God—person or
  principle? Christ’s idea of God; Conversation with God; Can a “finite
  God” satisfy? The discovery of God.

  “The book is small, a companion to the volume on Prayer and faith by
  the same author but its viewpoint is large and the benefits of its
  reading should be great. Dr McComb is well-known in Boston because of
  his work on psychotherapy while at Emmanuel church, and this book
  bears evidence of that training. Not that it expounds or even
  advocates the movement, but through the emphasis which is constantly
  laid on the definition of God as a Power.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 12 ‘18 350w


=MCCOMB, SAMUEL.= New life; the secret of happiness and power. *50c
(3½c) Harper 248 17-5701

  A series of essays on the spiritual life. The author finds the secret
  of modern unrest in the lack of spiritual satisfaction in individual
  lives. Social and civic activities, however worthy, do not fill the
  soul. A new attitude toward God that will bring man into harmony with
  His law is what is needed. Contents: The need of a new life; Should a
  man worry about his sins? The real meaning of sin; The need of
  conversion; Is conversion possible? Sudden versus gradual conversion;
  The regeneration of character; The power of the new life; The Christ
  ideal; The sociological value of the new life; The new life atoning
  and optimistic.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:330 My ‘17

         =Pratt= p8 O ‘17 20w

  “The book is written in simple language, and is intended for the
  average reader. It will prove of great value to every pastor and
  social worker. Dr McComb writes in a happy, hopeful vein, and his
  discussion of these old questions is fresh and modern. The book has a
  positive message, but is undogmatic in its tone.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 4 ‘17 110w


=MCCONNELL, JAMES R.= Flying for France with the American escadrille at
Verdun. il *$1 (4½c) Doubleday 940.91 17-6754

  The author of this little book went to France in 1915 to drive an
  ambulance. After some months in this service he resigned to join the
  flying corps. The book is made up of four chapters: Verdun; From
  Verdun to the Somme; Personal letters from Sergeant McConnell; How
  France trains pilot aviators.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:346 My ‘17

  “It is this note of a spiritual awakening which lifts Mr McConnell’s
  book out of the class of the adventure narrative.”

       + =Ind= 90:296 My 12 ‘17 110w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:57 Ap ‘17

  “It is a short book, of little more than 150 pages—and with large
  print and wide margins at that—but it has a deal of interesting matter
  in it. It is both exciting and informative. And its record is
  something of which, as Americans, we can all be proud.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:98 Mr 18 ‘17 250w

  “Vivid and interesting account of the daily work of the American
  escadrille of the French flying corps, particularly over Verdun and on
  the Somme front.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:458 My ‘17 30w (Reprinted from Aviation and
         Aeronautical Engineering p141 Mr 1 ‘17)

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:529 Je ‘17 60w

         =Pratt= p41 O ‘17 20w

  “Not the least interesting portions of the little volume are the
  touching tributes which Sergeant McConnell pays to his comrades who
  fell before him.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:549 My ‘17 300w

  “Written in simple, but gripping style.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 13 ‘17 130w

  “Slight but very readable account.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:124 Ap ‘17 40w


=MCCORMICK, FREDERICK.= Menace of Japan. *$2 (2c) Little 327 17-9690

  “When the determination of the immediate question of the future of
  Europe comes to conference, the fate of America’s interests and the
  future of the United States in the Pacific will be determined by Japan
  and the winners of the world war. ... The only hope for American
  honor, international justice, protection of commerce and trade, and
  other American interests in East Asia in future will be either the
  triumph of an European-American treaty coalition over
  Japanese-European Prussianism, or a triumph of the military forces of
  the United States over those of Japan, and a mastery in Washington in
  the management of foreign affairs.” These are some of the conclusions
  voiced in the final chapter, “Back to the guns.” “The sword, which
  Providence and Wisdom commend to China, they also commend to America,”
  is its last word. The author has been a journalist and war
  correspondent in the Far East since the Boxer uprising.

  “A book which no thoughtful reader could for a moment take seriously.”

       — =Am Hist R= 22:905 Jl ‘17 430w

     – + =A L A Bkl= 13:428 Jl ‘17

  “Distinguishing between fact and fiction in books upon the politics of
  the Far East is no easy task, even when the author cites his sources
  of information; in this book it becomes impossible, except to the
  expert student; for Mr McCormick informs us in his preface that ‘many
  things contained herein ... cannot be publicly ascribed to their
  sources ... many are simply extracts from my own journals and private
  records.’ The author’s rabid anti-Japanese bias casts suspicion, if
  not upon his facts, at least upon the soundness of his judgment. As
  the reader passes from one chapter to another he becomes convinced
  that he is in the presence of a propagandist, not a sober historical
  writer.”

     – + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:593 Ag ‘17 530w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 4 ‘17 730w

  “Mr McCormick, although at times unjustifiably violent in his
  rhetoric, has without any doubt made out a clear case against Japanese
  diplomacy and our own inaction.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:249 My ‘17 1050w

  “Many of his assertions are too sweeping, and his conclusions are
  sometimes palpably unsound. With due allowance for journalistic dash
  and patriotic fervor, his book can be read profitably. It contains a
  good deal of interesting information on the ins and outs of world
  diplomacy since the Russo-Japanese war. It is, however, almost wholly
  lacking in documentary citations, and the careful student will often
  be uncertain what to accept at face value and what to discount.” F: A.
  Ogg

     – + =Dial= 62:432 My 17 ‘17 450w

         =Outlook= 115:760 Ap 25 ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p10 O ‘17 20w

  “The author was for years an Associated press correspondent in China,
  and in recent years he has been secretary of the Asiatic Institute.
  His personal acquaintance with the events he describes dates from the
  Boxer rebellion. His style is decidedly journalistic, but in places is
  commendably vivid. The book is essentially a study in imperialism.
  Whether the conclusions are sound is a question that admits of
  debate.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p19 Mr 25 ‘17 400w

  “A thoroughly mischievous work. Mr McCormick’s judgment and language
  are not marked by diplomatic restraint, nor does he sift evidence with
  care or display profound knowledge of the complicated matters with
  which he deals.” H: R. Mussey

       — =Survey= 39:48 O 13 ‘17 1750w


=MCCORMICK, HAROLD FOWLER.= Via pacis; how terms of peace can be
automatically prepared while the war is still going on. 60c (9c) McClurg
940.91 17-5546

  This suggestion for a means of determining peace terms was written in
  December, 1915, issued privately in July, 1916, and is now put forward
  for consideration by the public. The author asks that the belligerents
  “enunciate the objects for which they are fighting and place their
  peace terms in precise and concrete form in the hands of selected
  neutral countries—whose role would be, not that of mediators but of
  custodians and ‘transfer agents.’ The terms thus deposited could be
  changed periodically in accordance with the varying fortunes of the
  war, the resulting benefit being that each side could know at a given
  moment precisely what the other was demanding and could examine his
  own assets, chances and hopes accordingly.” (Foreword)

         =Int J Ethics= 27:540 Jl ‘17 180w

         =R of Rs= 55:445 Ap ‘17 60w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 28 ‘17 420w


=MCCRACKEN, ELIZABETH=, ed. To mother; with an introd. by Kate Douglas
Wiggin. il *$1 Houghton 821.08 17-13752

  This “anthology of mother verse” is arranged under the headings: The
  young mother; Mothers of men; Christmas mother poems; Lullabies; The
  joy of motherhood; Old-fashioned mother poems; Sonnets on motherhood;
  Tributes to mothers. It includes poems by Wordsworth, Tennyson,
  Coventry Patmore, Eugene Field, Jane and Ann Taylor, Thomas Bailey
  Aldrich and other English and American poets. Masefield’s “C. L. M.”
  and Henley’s “Matri dilectissimæ” are not included. There is an
  imaginative introduction by the editor, about a child and a garden;
  and indexes of first lines, of titles and of authors.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:50 N ‘17

  “The collection shows both discrimination and wide reading.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 160w

         =Cleveland= p90 Jl ‘17 40w

  “A collection of verse that contains neither the sentimental nor the
  banal, nor does it ever descend to doggerel however well intentioned.
  A book that one need not apologize for sending to anybody’s mother.”

       + =Ind= 91:135 Jl 28 ‘17 50w


=MCCULLOUGH, ERNEST.=[2] Practical structural design. il $2.50 U. P. C.
bk. co. 624 17-29163

  “A text and reference work for engineers, architects, builders,
  draftsmen and technical schools; especially adapted to the needs of
  self-tutored men.” (Sub-title) The book is an outgrowth of a series of
  articles that appeared in the numbers of Building Age from 1914 to
  1916, with the title “Design of beams, girders and trusses.” Before
  writing the articles the author had used the subject matter in evening
  classes where it was presented to the type of “self-tutored” men for
  whom in particular the book is planned. Contents: External forces;
  Internal forces; Problems in design of beams; Girders and trusses;
  Joints and connections; Graphic statics; Columns and structures. The
  author is a member of the American society of civil engineers and is a
  licensed structural engineer and licensed architect of the State of
  Illinois.

  “If in our college days one of us had dared to tell our professor of
  mechanics or structures that a really comprehensive text could have
  been written without the use of calculus or algebra, he would
  certainly have been classed with the heretics. The writer has always
  felt, however, that such a thing could be done and now his belief is
  realized in Mr McCullough’s admirable work. Although containing only
  293 pages, it is difficult to find a phase of structural engineering
  such as is likely to be encountered in the city practice of a
  designing engineer which is not covered in a satisfactory manner.” W.
  S. Edge

     + + =Engin News-Rec= 80:128 Ja 17 ‘18 500w


=MCCUTCHEON, GEORGE BARR.= Green fancy. il *$1.50 (1½c) Dodd 17-23981

  Green fancy is a strange hidden house on the American border of
  Canada. In and around it royal personages, third-rate actors, a New
  York man of the world, a beautiful woman, an Irishman of fortune, an
  international crook, all play their parts in an exciting drama of
  European intrigue.

  “The narrative gallops along at a rapid rate, with plenty of dramatic
  incidents and exciting situations, while the author garnishes
  characters, incidents, and narratives with touches of humor.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:349 S 16 ‘17 290w

  “It is a light romance, but the element of mystery is well sustained
  after the manner of such writers.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 240w


=MACDONALD, ALLAN JOHN MACDONALD.= Trade politics and Christianity in
Africa and the East; with an introd. by Harry Johnston. *$2 Longmans 266
16-22960

  “This able book won the Maitland prize at Cambridge for an essay on
  the thesis, ‘Problems raised by the contact of the West with Africa
  and the East, and the part that Christianity can play in their
  solution’—one of the fundamental questions, that is, which confront
  the Empire and cannot be evaded. The chapters on the liquor traffic in
  West Africa and in Ceylon are very painful reading. ... Mr Macdonald
  discusses the difficult question of mixed marriages, and concludes
  that ‘the Eurasian, so long as he exists ... must be treated, if not
  as a social equal by the members of either dominant race, at least as
  a man and a brother in the great Christian community.’”—Spec

         =A L A Bkl= 13:245 Mr ‘17

         =Ath= p475 O ‘16 120w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:94 Je ‘17

  “Sir Harry Johnston, who is rated an authority on English colonial
  matters, contributes an interesting introduction.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:242 Je 24 ‘17 70w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:430 My ‘17 100w

  “From first to last Mr Macdonald seeks after truth in such a temperate
  manner that his book will be read with pleasure even by those who will
  differ from some of his views.”

       + =Sat R= 122:sup8 N 4 ‘16 1550w

  “Sir Harry Johnston’s introduction is a remarkable tribute to the
  Christian missionary.”

         =Spec= 117:556 N 4 ‘16 160w

  “An extensive, detailed, and able review of labour and liquor problems
  in Africa, India and China.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p455 S 21 ‘16 140w

  “While one may not be convinced by Mr Macdonald’s argument, and there
  are slips in his ethnological statements ... his book is valuable for
  its full and impartial account of the difficulties between Europeans
  and natives as they exist at the present moment.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p520 N 2 ‘16 1100w


=MACDONALD, GEORGE.= Evolution of coinage. (Cambridge manuals of science
and literature) il *45c (1c) Putnam 332 17-8356

  The introductory chapter gives in brief the early history of coinage.
  Subsequent chapters take up: Coinage and the state; The material of
  coinage; Form, and methods of production; Types; Legends; Dates, and
  marks of value; Key to the plates. Select bibliography and Index
  follow. Eight plates illustrate the volume.

  “An account, admirably written and illustrated, of the development of
  coinage in its technical and general aspects. The economic history of
  the subject is not included in the author’s plan.” C. D.

       + =Am Econ R= 7:413 Je ‘17 50w

  “It would be difficult to imagine a better introduction to
  numismatics.” H.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:316 Ap ‘17 90w

  “His illustrations are excellent.”

       + =Spec= 118:593 My 26 ‘17 100w


=MACDONALD, J. RAMSAY.= National defence. *2s 6d Allen & Unwin, London
172.4

  “In this small book Mr MacDonald concentrates his attention not on the
  peace problem of the moment or on post-war international policies, but
  on a criticism of ‘militarism’ as a principle and as a means of
  national defence. He does not, that is to say, here attack the war
  spirit and compulsory military service on humanitarian or sentimental
  grounds, but on grounds of national defence as the most likely means
  to promote what it is supposed to prevent; ‘created to give a sense of
  security and to defend, whereas its very existence keeps fear alive
  and adds to danger.’”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

         =Ath= p106 F ‘17 130w

  “A chapter on ‘A democratic Germany and peace’ is a significant
  warning to those who expect the Germans to translate military defeat
  into a pacific democracy. The Germans may rid themselves of their
  reigning house, as the French rid themselves of Napoleon III in 1871,
  without wishing to forget the war.” M. J.

         =Int J Ethics= 27:529 Jl ‘17 430w

         =Pratt= p10 O ‘17 50w

         =Spec= 119:189 Ag 25 ‘17 200w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p59 F 1 ‘17 100w


=MACDONALD, JAMES ALEXANDER.= North American idea. (Cole lectures for
1917) $1.25 Revell 18-273

  “A course of lectures delivered in the early part of the present year
  under the auspices of the Vanderbilt university of Nashville, Tenn.,
  by the editor of the Toronto Globe. ... The North American idea which
  the author sets forth, is a recognition of the law of the world’s good
  will as an infinite and immutable law of the ordered life of human
  society and as the law of the world’s good will. This law of good will
  never is broken. No more than the law of gravitation can ever be
  broken. The world’s good will is law for all nations. Its
  transgression makes inevitable Germany’s undoing. ... ‘Already the
  leaders of world-opinion, at all the battle fronts of the world’s mind
  have learned the truth of the Christ dictum in the realm of world
  politics, that no nation can live to itself or can die to itself
  alone.’ An internationalized world is to be the outcome of the present
  world conflict of ideas. North America must play her part in the great
  conflict of ideas. Her preparedness must be that of the American mind,
  consciousness and will. ‘Service is the measure of our civilization.
  Service for others is the keynote of our democracy.’”—Boston
  Transcript

  “Dr Macdonald has gained an international reputation, which the
  present volume will surely enhance.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 26 ‘17 360w

         =Cleveland= p135 D ‘17 30w

         =Ind= 92:256 N 3 ‘17 80w

  “Of prominent importance is Dr Macdonald’s enlightening review of
  United States history, and that of the Dominion. Of the latter he
  exposes great ignorance among us. Startling is his exposure of General
  Bernhardi’s secret mission hither in 1913 to prepare Germans for
  mischief among us in the coming war.”

         =Outlook= 117:184 O 3 ‘17 180w

  “The reader is, perhaps, led to share the speaker’s zeal for democracy
  and internationalism. But as an exposition of North America’s attitude
  toward these greatest of causes the book is altogether inadequate.
  Comparatively little of the political achievement of either Canada or
  the United States is presented by the speaker.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 21 ‘17 200w


=MCDOUGALL, GRACE.= Nurse at the war. il *$1.25 (3½c) McBride 940.91
17-20977

  This is the story of the “F.A.N.Y. corps” in Flanders and France, told
  by the Scottish nurse who started the work in September, 1914. The
  corps has now over 50 members working in the zone of the armies, and a
  few more in a convalescent camp in the center of France. They are
  doing motor ambulance, first aid, base hospital, and convalescent
  canteen work.

  “Here is one of the most modest books to have grown out of the war.
  The author’s name does not even appear upon the title page. ... Among
  the most inspiring parts of the narrative are those which tell of
  struggles against early official refusal to accept women’s service,
  when male prejudice and mistaken kindness prevented and delayed the
  entrance of woman to one of her truest and noblest fields of
  activity.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 300w

  “‘Graphic’ the publishers term it, and the word is none too strong.
  Besides being graphic, it has an air of hurry that suits well the
  incidents that it relates. She does not parade horrors, but her
  buoyancy is so irrepressible that neither does she shrink from letting
  them appear in all their ghastliness.”

       + =Nation= 105:610 N 29 ‘17 190w

       + =N Y Times= 23:344 S 16 ‘17 90w


=MCDOWELL, WILLIAM FRASER.= Good ministers of Jesus Christ. (Lyman
Beecher lectures on preaching) *$1.25 Abingdon press 251 17-15666

  “Dr McDowell is a bishop in the Methodist church. ... [In this book]
  he divides the work of the Christian ministry into eight divisions,
  using the work of Christ as a basis and guide for these aspects. He
  terms them revelation, redemption, incarnation, reconciliation,
  rescue, conservation, co-operation and inspiration.”—Springf’d
  Republican

  “The lectures have large-mindedness as to practical problems of
  religion and wisdom in dealing with men. Every page has suggestions
  for the preacher.” A. S. Hoyt

       + =Am J Theol= 21:633 O ‘17 340w

  “Bishop McDowell is, in our judgment, strongest in his chapters on
  redemption and rescue. The terseness and beauty of the style is an
  outstanding feature of the lectures.”

       + =Bib World= 50:315 N ‘17 70w

  “Assuming that his hearers intended to enter the ministry of the
  Christian church, he has tried to show them in these eight lectures
  how they may become good ministers of Jesus Christ. He speaks as one
  who has had thorough training for and long experience in the Christian
  ministry.” F. W. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 3 ‘17 830w

  “The style is clear and incisive, the substance rich with accumulated
  wisdom and instinct with passionate earnestness.”

       + =Ind= 91:354 S 1 ‘17 60w

  “In the long series of these annual lectures this last is inferior to
  none. It is characteristically inspirational and vitalizing.”

       + =Outlook= 117:143 S 26 ‘17 140w

  “The book is an interpretation of the ideals of Wesley’s followers in
  the light of modern needs and modern thought. ... It is interesting to
  note the many divergencies of thought from the very excellent series
  of lectures delivered on the same foundation [Lyman Beecher
  foundation, Yale university] in 1915, by President Hyde of Bowdoin
  college, entitled ‘The gospel of good will.’ The two series, read
  together, give one an admirably-balanced view of the religious needs
  of men and women to-day.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 8 ‘17 400w


=MACE, ARTHUR C., and WINLOCK, HERBERT EUSTIS.= Tomb of Senebtisi at
Lisht. il *$10; pa *$8 Metropolitan museum of art 913.32 17-2044

  “The first publication of the Egyptian expedition of the Metropolitan
  museum is this handsome quarto volume by the assistant curators of the
  museum’s department of Egyptian art. The work of the expedition was
  begun in the winter of 1906-07 on the site of the pyramid-field of
  Lisht, which includes the pyramids of Amenemhat I and Senusert I, of
  the twelfth dynasty, with ‘royal’ cemeteries surrounding them. ...
  Text and drawings, photogravures and colored plates present and
  describe the site and the tomb, the clearing of the tomb, the coffins
  and canopic box, the jewelry, ceremonial staves, and pottery.
  Appendixes contain notes on the mummy, by Dr G. Elliott Smith, and an
  index of names of objects from the painted coffins. Mr Albert Morton
  Lythgoe, curator of the department of Egyptian art, is general editor
  of the publications of the expedition.”—Dial

  “A careful index makes reference easy. And the book, a royal quarto,
  printed in clear large type, is a credit to the institution that made
  it possible and to the authors whose wealth of learning makes one gasp
  with astonishment.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 7 ‘17 850w

       + =Dial= 63:69 Jl 19 ‘17 170w

  “It will be seen that the volume under discussion is part of a large
  and comprehensive plan of archæological work, which neglects neither
  science nor the public, but has considered the needs of all with real
  scientific statesmanship. ... The jewelry, which is very fully
  presented in color plates, photographs, and drawings, makes the volume
  of importance to all students of the goldsmith’s art.”

       + =Nation= 105:95 Jl 26 ‘17 1500w

  “Highly specialized as it is, the record contains a good deal of
  general interest, and may be read with enjoyment by a wider public
  than that concerned merely with the results of the archaeological
  expedition’s work. ... It need scarcely be pointed out that the plates
  which illustrate the great volume—there are thirty-five of them, as
  well as eighty-five ordinary figure illustrations—are of the finest.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:117 Ap 1 ‘17 500w


=MCFADDEN, GERTRUDE VIOLET.= Honest lawyer. *$1.25 (1c) Lane 17-6331

  A provincial neighborhood in Dorset a hundred years ago is the scene
  of this story. The hero is a young attorney who has just succeeded to
  his uncle’s practice. The heroine enters the tale in a most startling
  way, by sending a proposal of marriage to the lawyer-hero, who has
  never seen her. Just why beautiful, haughty and much sought after
  Quenride Chideock should have done this remains a mystery for some
  time. The answer involves a forged will, the foiling of a particularly
  black villain, a trial for felony, and a pardon obtained under unusual
  and romantic circumstances.

  “Rather sensational tale.”

         =Boston Transcript= p8 F 7 ‘17 250w

  “The events of the story are improbable, not to say impossible; it is
  romance pure and simple, wholly removed from realism. ... An adherent
  of Mr Howells is not likely to care for the strange incidents and
  unheard of situations of ‘The honest lawyer’; but to those who wish to
  be taken out of themselves into a wholly different world from any they
  have known, Miss McFadden’s ingenious and well-told story may be
  heartily commended.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:152 F 11 ‘17 200w


=MACFARLANE, ALEXANDER.= Lectures on ten British mathematicians of the
nineteenth century. (Mathematical monographs, no. 17) il *$1.25 Wiley
925 16-14318

  “This posthumous publication contains most interesting biographies of
  ten of the leading mathematicians of the nineteenth century in Great
  Britain, namely, of George Peacock, Augustus De Morgan, Sir William
  Rowan Hamilton, George Boole, Arthur Cayley, William Kingdon Clifford,
  Henry John Stephen Smith, James Joseph Sylvester, Thomas Penyngton
  Kirkman, Isaac Todhunter. These sketches are a part of the lectures
  given by Dr Macfarlane at Lehigh university during the years
  1901-04.”—Science

  “Should appeal to all students of human nature. It is, however, of
  more special interest, because not only are the personalities drawn,
  but the work and achievements of these men are presented and discussed
  in considerable detail.”

       + =Engin N= 77:112 Ja 18 ‘17 500w

  “The list is truly representative.” G. B. M.

       + =Nature= 99:221 My 17 ‘17 1700w

  “The author’s personal acquaintance with some of these men, and with
  intimate friends of them, enabled him to add personal touches which
  will be relished by the reader. Particularly gratifying are the
  details about Boole and Kirkman, concerning whom little had previously
  appeared in print. The future historian of mathematics during the
  nineteenth century will find the booklet full of interesting
  material. ... Carelessness in the proof-reading is noticeable.”
  Florian Cajori

       + =Science= n s 45:88 Ja 26 ‘17 680w


=MACFARLANE, CHARLES.= Reminiscences of a literary life; with an introd.
by J: F. Tattersall. *$3.50 Scribner (Eng ed 17-19702)

  “A man who met Shelley at Naples and introduced him to Pompeii, who
  saw Keats in Italy, who talked with Hartley Coleridge at Grasmere, and
  who knew all the London wits of George IV’s day is a very welcome
  acquaintance. Charles MacFarlane, whose reminiscences have been
  discovered in manuscript in a country bookshop, was a prolific author
  now forgotten save, perhaps, for his historical novel, ‘The camp of
  refuge,’ which may have inspired Kingsley’s ‘Hereward the Wake.’ In
  later life he had to seek refuge in the Charterhouse as a Poor
  brother, and there, before his death in 1858, he finished dictating
  the two stout quartos which he meant for his son as an heirloom—and
  probably for the public as well. The son, an Indian officer, died in
  1872, and the memoirs have been preserved by some happy chance, to be
  published at last by the descendant of MacFarlane’s old friend, the
  John Murray of Byron’s time.”—Spec

  “He is an extremely lucid chronicler of events and a caustic analyst
  of character. ... Among the many picturesque personalities brought by
  MacFarlane into his book is Thomas De Quincey, whom he handles without
  gloves. ... It seems altogether likely that these reminiscences were
  never completed, or that if they were the final volumes are lost or
  still undiscovered.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 19 ‘17 1850w

  “MacFarlane was a man of cultivated mind, was a fit associate of the
  varied personalities with whom he had contact. The chief value of his
  book lies in his reaction to those personalities. And along with his
  easy-going chatter about them goes an instinct for discerning the
  things which are characteristic, revealing.” Garland Greever

       + =Dial= 63:518 N 22 ‘17 1300w

  “One of the most entertaining books of the sort published in many a
  day.”

       + =Nation= 105:611 N 29 ‘17 270w

  “Full of engaging details of the literati and dilettanti of the first
  half of the nineteenth century, as well as some well-known Italians
  and Anglo-Indians. ... Writing casually, MacFarlane was not always
  accurate.”

     + — =Sat R= 123:390 Ap 28 ‘17 1150w

  “He hated Radicals, loathed Miss Martineau and De Quincey, and bore a
  seemingly justifiable grudge against Charles Knight, for whom he wrote
  ‘The pictorial history of England’ and other popular books; but there
  was no real malice in his nature. ... His meeting with Shelley fills
  the first, and best, chapter in the book. ... MacFarlane’s serious
  books are forgotten, but his reminiscences will be read and quoted for
  a long time to come.”

       + =Spec= 118:643 Je 9 ‘17 2300w

  “He is as honest as a very determined and rather prejudiced old
  gentleman may be. Down go his likes and dislikes, all pat; and since
  he took care to know a good many of the interesting people in the
  first half of his century, writes about them honestly, and engagingly
  ‘gives himself away’ in so doing, his book is lively from start to
  finish.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p163 Ap 5 ‘17 1750w


=MCFEE, MRS INEZ NELLA (CANFIELD).= Boys and girls of many lands. il
*$1.25 (3c) Crowell 17-25294

  It is the author’s purpose to tell for American children something of
  the every day lives of boys and girls of other countries. A little
  African boy, Carl of Australia, Our playmates in Austria, Jaurez, a
  lad of the Amazon, A little maid of old Quebec, Boys and girls in
  China, are the titles of a few of the twenty and more chapters. There
  are sixteen illustrations from photographs. Mrs McFee is author of
  “Outlines, devices and recreations in United States geography,”
  “Studies in American and British literature,” and other books for
  school use.


=MACGILL, PATRICK.= Soldier songs. *$1 Dutton 821 17-20683

  “In his third book of the war, Mr MacGill turns from prose to verse.
  As his ‘Songs of the dead end’ were written out of the life of his
  youth in Ireland, so these ‘Soldier songs’ are the lyrical expression
  of the sights and sounds he encountered a few years later in the midst
  of ‘war’s orgies of carnage.’ To him war has a charm, but it is merely
  the charm of adventure that adds to the joy of living and that gives
  him a theme for writing. ... In a dedicatory letter addressed to ‘My
  dear H. J.’—which initials undoubtedly represent his London publisher,
  Mr Herbert Jenkins—Mr MacGill responds to a request for information
  about the favorite songs of the soldier on active service.”—Springf’d
  Republican

         =A L A Bkl= 14:15 O ‘17

  “In all these poems there is never absent that strong sense of the
  part played by nature in man’s life which is always conspicuous in Mr
  MacGill’s prose as well as in his verse. He responds eagerly and
  vigorously to the scenes amid which he is suddenly placed.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 26 ‘17 1600w

  “The easy dialect of the trenches predominates, but in spite of this,
  literary quality is not lacking in many of the poems. ‘Marching’ and
  ‘Before the charge’ are fine bits of verse.”

       + =Cath World= 106:408 D ‘17 120w

         =Cleveland= p121 N ‘17 90w

         =Ind= 91:76 Jl 14 ‘17 60w

  “Noteworthy for its hearty rhythm, its sturdy originality of phrasing,
  and for the courageous spirit which permeates it. By a strange
  paradox, this poet has found in battle the sanity of outlook not
  noticeable in the work he wrote in times of peace.”

       + =Lit D= 55:41 Jl 7 ‘17 350w

  “We recommend to all who look upon war as something worth all its
  ghastly horrors in the ‘purifying’ results it bestows on mankind the
  poems entitled ‘After the war,’ ‘Out yonder,’ ‘Red wine,’ ‘The
  return,’ ‘A vision,’ ‘The everyday of war,’ and particularly
  ‘Letters.’ Be it remembered that these poems are the testimony of a
  man who finds a justification for this war.” D: P. Berenberg

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Ag 5 ‘17 240w

  “Like everything of MacGill’s, they are ‘different’ from anything
  else. They are, besides, a genuine contribution to the few specimens
  of real poetry produced by the war.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:264 Jl 15 ‘17 620w

       + =R of Rs= 56:105 Jl ‘17 100w

  “Make somewhat grim reading, but they are not as harsh as his prose,
  and now and again a note of unexpected and delicate tenderness is
  heard. ... It is indeed a signal proof of versatility that the trench
  poems written in the crudest slang and the reverent and dignified
  lines on the crucifix in Givenchy church should have come from the
  same pen.”

       + =Spec= 118:76 Ja 20 ‘17 70w

  “Criticism of the songs as works of art, beyond allowing their
  metrical passability, would show them to fall between two stools,
  since they are not poetry on the one hand, not spontaneous expression
  of crude emotion, on the other.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 17 ‘17 420w

  “These songs seem perhaps more than any verse of so strictly
  ‘soldierly’ a type that has come from the trenches to bring home to us
  something that is really alive—to ‘get there,’ if the expression may
  be allowed—more truly and easily, and without a touch of jingling
  bravado.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p503 O 19 ‘16 400w


=MACGRATH, HAROLD.= Luck of the Irish; a romance. il *$1.40 (1½c) Harper
17-25084

  William Grogan, born in New York, thrown upon the streets at nine, a
  journeyman plumber at twenty-four, is the kind of hero who, like “the
  Hindu Yogi, could set his body grinding corn, take his soul out and go
  visiting with it.” For three years from his cellar shop window he had
  seen the same two shapely feet, sensibly shod, trip lightly by.
  Saturdays minus and the gap of July and August led him to the
  conclusion that she was a school teacher. He had never seen her face.
  “There were lots of homely women with pretty feet. He hadn’t many
  illusions left, this young philosopher of the soldering-iron, and he
  wanted to keep this one.” The wheel of fortune turns. A part of the
  pot of gold at the end of the rainbow is dumped into his lap. He puts
  himself aboard a ship for a trip around the world. The pair of feet is
  on the same boat. Mystery with plenty of treachery spices the story
  which must be left to the reader.

         =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 60w

  “A lively tale, the interest of which depends almost entirely upon its
  plot, and, though in the climax at Singapore it does seem as if the
  author might have managed to concoct a more plausible excuse for the
  delay which enabled William to arrive in the very nick of time, the
  story as a whole is amusing.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:394 O 14 ‘17 430w


=MACHARG, WILLIAM, and BALMER, EDWIN.= Indian drum. il *$1.40 (1½c)
Little 17-25511

  It was an Indian superstition—that the drum, hidden somewhere in the
  woods at the northern end of Lake Michigan, tolled the passing of
  every soul lost on the lakes. Twenty years before, when the freighter
  “Miwaka” had gone down with all on board, the drum had beaten short.
  Twenty-five was the number of the lost, but the drum made the count
  twenty-four. And there were those who had waited many years for the
  return of a rescued man. The story opens with the disappearance of
  Benjamin Corvet of Chicago, veteran ship owner and best known man on
  the lakes. Coincident with this is the arrival in Chicago of young
  Alan Conrad of Kansas, who had been summoned by Corvet. Henry
  Spearman, youngest member of the firm Corvet, Sherrill and Spearman,
  insists that the senior partner is dead, but Constance Sherrill
  refuses to be convinced and encourages Alan in his search for the
  missing man. The mystery shrouding Alan and his relationship to
  Corvet, together with the explanation of the connection between Corvet
  and Spearman and the lost “Miwaka” is cleared away with the wreck of
  Carferry 25, when the count of the Indian drum is again one beat
  short.

  “An unusually good mystery story.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:97 D ‘17

  “The tale is clearly and pleasantly told, the characters acceptably
  real, and the solution eminently satisfactory.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:401 O 14 ‘17 230w

  “The plot is painstakingly worked out and the book is better written
  than most plot stories. The power and tragedy of the Great Lakes in
  time of storm form an impressive background.”

       + =Outlook= 117:219 O 10 ‘17 70w

  “The big scene on the lake steamer when the cars get loose recalls the
  place in ‘Ninety-three’ where the gun breaks loose between decks and
  begins to batter the ship to pieces. The incident is as thrilling as
  anything short of Flanders.” E. P. Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 92:1372 O 20 ‘17 370w

  “The story, despite the obviousness of its dramatic struggle, is
  skilfully constructed, its air of mystery being well sustained.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 280w


=MACHEN, ARTHUR.= Terror. *$1.25 (3½c) McBride 17-25086

  An ingenious mystery story, impossible, fantastic, yet with a moral
  that sets thoughtful people musing. Rural England which is the scene
  has a succession of strange deaths. Workers in munition factories,
  miners, farmers, tourists and laborers are stricken down, some
  apparently asphyxiated, others victims of inexplainable violence. The
  theory is suggested that the Germans, before the war, undermined the
  earth, and, from hidden vantage points, are making use of some deadly
  ray to destroy the people. In the end it is revealed that the terror
  had been due to a mute uprising of the brute creation against their
  human masters who, in descending to the plane of beasts to conduct
  warfare, had released their spiritual hold over the animal creation.
  The subjects revolted because their king abdicated his throne. Hatred
  is contagious. The animals under its spell turned on man to destroy
  him.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:170 F ‘18

  “‘The terror’ is a pure tour de force in diabolism. With its haunting
  unreality, its many passages of real beauty, its passages of
  description of Welsh scenery, no little pleasure may be derived from
  its chapters.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 31 ‘17 130w

         =Ind= 92:192 O 27 ‘17 60w

  “Artfully does the story-teller establish his fiction upon an
  indubitable fact, fresh in every reader’s mind. The British were
  inactive; we all wondered why at the time, and here, says our
  deponent, with his crisp reporter’s air, is the answer.”

       + =Nation= 105:457 O 25 ‘17 550w

  “The horrors that mark the animals’ sudden war upon mankind seem
  isolated from their cause, and do not convince one of any real terror
  at the root of them. In spite of the disappointment, and the defect of
  a good idea not vigorously carried out, ‘The terror’ is a
  distinguished book, and bears the mark of a strangely original mind.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:158 D 8 ‘17 150w

  “The fancy is an excellent one, and on the whole well worked out,
  though, naturally, there are many things left unexplained, and some
  that do not hang very well together. But as ‘A tale of terror’ it
  certainly qualifies, and we should conjecture that the book has not
  been published in England, though it, no doubt, will be after the
  war.” J. W.

     + — =N Y Call= p14 O 14 ‘17 530w

         =N Y Times= 22:400 O 14 ‘17 320w

  “Daring, ingenious tale.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:808 D ‘17 50w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p70 F 8 ‘17 80w


=MACIVER, ROBERT MORRISON.= Community: a sociological study. *$3.75 (3c)
Macmillan 301 17-17545

  “A small portion of this work has already appeared in the Sociological
  Review and other quarters. The greater portion is concerned with what
  are believed by the author to be the fundamental laws of social
  development. Prof. Maciver declares that social science, in order to
  advance, must cease to be subject to the methods and formulæ of
  physical and biological science. It has a method of its own; and
  social relations cannot adequately be stated quantitatively, nor
  understood as expressions of quantitative laws. Of militarism the
  author remarks that it has been the enemy of modern social
  development, and that, if it cannot be overcome, ‘in all we do to
  build a greater civilization we are preparing greater offerings to the
  powers of destruction.’”—Ath

  “This is easily the most notable book of the year in sociology. ... It
  is impossible to outline in a satisfactory manner the argument of a
  book so fertile in ideas. The only fair thing that the reviewer can do
  is to urge all interested in social science to read the book. It is
  far easier, however, to criticise the work, and in certain respects it
  deserves criticism. It is doubtful, for example, if the author has
  rendered sociology a service by adding another terminology to the many
  already in existence. ... Finally, Professor Maciver’s attempt to make
  psychology purely a subjective science, the science of ‘the knower’
  (p. 60), and thereby divorce the social sciences quite entirely from
  it, will scarcely meet with approval on the part either of
  psychologists or of a large number of sociologists. These are,
  however, on the whole, minor defects in a work whose substantial value
  nearly all students of the social sciences will heartily recognize.”
  C: A. Ellwood

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:598 S ‘17 950w

  “It strikes one as a serious omission that almost no reference is made
  to the contributions of earlier writers to the same theme. ... On the
  other hand, the author shows no particular familiarity with the
  sociological tradition. For that reason the terms used in this book
  are more or less improvised, consequently lacking in precision, and
  the whole volume is vague, thin, plausible, and innocuous.” R. E. Park

       — =Am J Soc= 23:542 Ja ‘18 550w

  Reviewed by L. L. Bernard

         =Am Pol Sci R= 11:772 N ‘17 770w

  “What makes Dr Maciver’s volume so helpful is the fact that it was
  written before the outbreak of war and is published unaltered. It is a
  masterly book, characterized by a firm grasp of principles, and it is
  about principles that we want clear thinking at the present time. ...
  The volume is refreshing in that it is neither doctrinaire nor
  dogmatic. The lack of pretension about the book does not, however,
  hide the fact that it is written with a thorough knowledge of the best
  work in modern psychology and philosophy.”

       + =Ath= p235 My ‘17 1650w

         =Ath= p248 My ‘17 150w

         =Cleveland= p123 N ‘17 60w

  “It suffers from a certain abstractness. Again and again one needs the
  apt illustration which will serve to drive home the point that has
  been made. It is a well-arranged book; and a student who is acquainted
  with the literature of which it is a part can read it with interest
  and profit. It is, indeed, here that its main value lies. It is
  nothing so much as an encyclopædia of the problems involved in the
  fact of human organization. ... It is permissible to suggest that
  future work of this kind will be the more useful and suggestive in so
  far as it is written from the standpoint of historical experience.” H.
  J. Laski

 *   + – =Dial= 62:517 Je 14 ‘17 1850w

  “Dr Maciver has done valuable service not only in providing us with a
  summary analysis of acquired results, but also reminding the
  specialist of the immense value of a wide outlook. The author disarms
  criticism by acknowledging that the subject is too vast for any
  adequate survey to be made in the present state of our knowledge. On
  the whole Dr Maciver’s book is completely successful.” C. D. Burns

       + =Hibbert J= 16:175 O ‘17 680w

  “Remarkable book—remarkable for the vigour, originality and precision
  of the views presented. ... Of the two appendices, A is a very
  masterly criticism of neo-Hegelian identification of the state with
  society. It is, perhaps, in this illuminating criticism of authorities
  such as Professor Bosanquet in this appendix and of M. Durkheim (p.
  87), Mr William McDougall (p. 79) that Dr Maciver is at his best.” M.
  J.

       + =Int J Ethics= 28:292 Ja ‘18 340w

         =Nation= 105:698 D 20 ‘17 340w

  “We may express our gratitude for so able and suggestive a plea for
  the value and importance of individual human personality in the life
  of community, a plea more deeply significant against the background of
  present-day happenings.” W. L. S.

       + =Nature= 100:124 O 18 ‘17 1000w

  “While there is no question that what he has written is of high
  ability, Mr Maciver has yet certain defects of outlook and method
  which detract from the value of his thought. His thesis is
  over-elaborated. ... What is more serious is the unreal atmosphere of
  the book. Again and again it becomes difficult to grasp the vital fact
  that of this community we are ourselves part. There is missing the apt
  historical illustration which would lend point to the argument. ...
  Not the least serious defect in Mr Maciver is his seeming ignorance of
  vital tracts of human experience which are essential to his theme. ...
  If this is for the most part a criticism that is adverse, it is
  because Mr Maciver has written what is an indispensable book.” H. J.
  L.

     + — =New Repub= 11:283 Jl 7 ‘17 2200w

         =Pratt= p8 O ‘17 40w

  “A very able and penetrating analysis of communal development in the
  broadest sense.”

       + =Spec= 119:331 S 29 ‘17 120w

  “We needed this book badly. Of the thousands who lightly talk about
  ‘national reconstruction,’ how many question the issues involved? This
  book provides a real preparation for the task.” A. H. Burnett

     + — =Survey= 39:201 N 24 ‘17 540w

  “This book, the work of a Canadian professor, is one of unmistakable
  originality. ... In precision of language, in accuracy of definition,
  in the expulsion of indefinite phraseology, Mr Maciver’s volume
  contrasts, to his advantage, with the bulk of sociological literature.
  Certain pages are in the best style of philosophical exposition. But
  Mr Maciver does not wholly escape the besetting sin of
  sociologists—diffuseness.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p194 Ap 26 ‘17 1500w


=MACKAY, CONSTANCE D’ARCY.= Little theatre in the United States. il *$2
(3c) Holt 792 17-29335

  Aims to give a complete survey of one of the “newest, freest, most
  potent and democratic forces in the art of the American stage.” The
  author shows that the idea of little theatres came from Europe. In
  Paris in 1887 the first experiment was launched by André Antoine. In
  America the movement is new, dating from 1911-12. The “arch-foe of
  commercialism,” this great promoter of common interest has grown
  rapidly in America. The chapters describe the contributions and
  achievements of the more important little theatres of the United
  States and tell of the work going on in the laboratory theatres of the
  universities. There is also a word on the cost of little theatres, on
  repertory theatres, and on little theatres that have failed.

       + =Cleveland= p135 D ‘17 50w

  “A crisply written informational volume.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:107 Ja ‘18 480w

  “The author has done little more than bring together trivial notes and
  opinions. ... And the information is frequently inaccurate.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 330w

  “Meets a real need to satisfy requests for the history of the
  little-theater movement.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:30 Ja ‘18 80w


=MACKAY, HELEN GANSEVOORT (EDWARDS) (MRS ARCHIBALD K. MACKAY).= Journal
of small things. *$1.35 (2c) Duffield 940.91 17-8206

  The author writes of France in the early days of the war. The preface,
  by W. L. Courtney, says: “Those who have read Mrs Mackay’s book which
  she entitled ‘Accidentals,’ will know exactly what to expect from her
  new book ‘Journal of small things.’ Like the early one it consists of
  a series of little sketches more or less in the form of a diary,
  vignettes taken from a very individual angle of vision. ... The
  precise quality of them is that they are extremely individual and
  intimately concerned with the little things—episodes half observed,
  half forgotten, which cluster round a big tragedy.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:396 Je ‘17

       + =Ath= p106 F ‘17 60w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 4 ‘17 570w

  “The writer’s intense sympathy with the sufferings she records is
  unmarred by emotionalism, and permits her to produce an account
  objective enough to be valuable; and, although Mrs Mackay is
  apparently not a Catholic, the ‘Journal’ is full of a beautiful
  reverence for the religion of the French people.”

       + =Cath World= 105:838 S ‘17 250w

  “This is the record of a spiritual development, and it is by far the
  most impressive, the most poignant which this reviewer has yet found
  in the mass of war literature. It is a volume to be read and reread,
  and always to be kept near at hand.”

     + + =Dial= 63:29 Je 28 ‘17 230w

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 40w

  “It stays with one, with its heartache and its beauty; not for
  themselves and their lost homes, but over and over again—‘Sauvez la
  France.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:182 My 6 ‘17 600w

       + =Outlook= 116:33 My 2 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:682 O ‘17 80w

       + =Sat R= 123:sup6 My 19 ‘17 190w

  “The book is sad, it cannot be otherwise, but it is truthfully sad and
  is informed with a delicate sentiment which is never sentimental and
  which gives to her sketches contrasts of light, shade, and
  atmosphere.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p32 Ja 18 ‘17 400w


=MACKAY, MRS ISABEL ECCLESTONE (MACPHERSON).= Up the hill and over.
*$1.35 (1½c) Doran 17-10164

  A little village in Canada, very amusingly described, is the scene of
  this story. Dr Henry Callandar, of Montreal, seeking mental rest and
  change of scene, finds both in Coombe, where he buys out the practice
  of old Dr Simmonds. Well-wishers inform him that old Dr Simmonds
  really has no practice to sell and that Coombe is an unprofitably
  healthy town, but all this fits in perfectly with Dr Callandar’s
  plans. He comes into town on foot, like a tramp, and his first
  encounter is with Esther Coombe, the young school mistress. What
  promises at first to be a very pretty love story is interrupted by the
  meeting between Callandar and Esther’s stepmother. Callandar and Mary
  Coombe had known one another in the long past and there is that
  between them that throws the shadow of tragedy over the awakening of a
  new love. But the shadow lifts, making for the story a sunny ending.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:405 Je ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 2 ‘17 350w

  “The rather melodramatic plot is redeemed by skillful character
  drawing.”

     + — =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 50w

       + =Lit D= 54:1857 Je 16 ‘17 180w

  “A book with which we are glad to have made friends.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:126 Ap 8 ‘17 350w

  “An unusual novel of Canadian life by a Vancouver writer. It is
  admirably written and very interesting. There is truth, humor, and
  charm in the pictures both of the place and the people, while the
  construction is exceptionally good and the plot well and logically
  developed.”

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:119 My ‘17 150w


=MACKAY, LUCY GERTRUDE.=[2] Housekeeper’s apple book. *75c Little 641.5
17-29531

  The author classes the apple among the most essential foods and gives
  over 200 recipes for its use. Apple sauce and apple salads, baked
  apples and fried apples, apple puddings, pies, cakes and dumplings are
  all here, with many variations. The book is indexed.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:117 Ja ‘18

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 70w


=MACKAYE, PERCY WALLACE.= Canterbury pilgrims. *$1 Macmillan 812 17-403

  Percy MacKaye’s play “The Canterbury pilgrims” was published in 1903.
  This operatic version was prepared in the summer of 1914. With music
  by Reginald De Koven it was given its first performance at the
  Metropolitan opera house in New York during the season of 1916-17.
  Geoffrey Chaucer himself is one of the characters, together with the
  best known of the pilgrims, the Knight, the Squire, the Friar, the
  Miller, and so on, not forgetting the Wife of Bath.

  “That Mr MacKaye’s comedy has been out of print for some time gives a
  fresh interest and appeal to this operatic version. ... Long regarded
  as one of the finest of Mr MacKaye’s poetic dramas, it has now
  achieved the highest recognition in this country.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Ja 10 ‘17 400w

  “Rare among librettos in English, it is readable. ... Where Chaucer
  has failed him is in the matter of plot, and the effort to supply the
  deficiency is not so fortunate. ... In the play, as it was published
  in 1903, there was more opportunity to seek safety in an entirely
  appropriate discursiveness. The condensation necessary in an opera
  makes the incongruity of the plot only the more apparent.”

     + — =Nation= 104:411 Ap 5 ‘17 250w

  “With the possible exception of the Prioress, the characters are
  convincing portrayals. The whole affords relaxation for the student of
  Chaucer and satisfaction for the lover of good stories.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 22 ‘17 350w


=MACKAYE, PERCY WALLACE.= Community drama; its motive and method of
neighborliness; an interpretation. *50c (10½c) Houghton 792.6 17-17646

  The substance of this book was “delivered as a lecture before the
  American civic association in 1916. ... Mr MacKaye considers community
  drama the ‘ritual of democratic religion.’ Also by offering a dramatic
  channel for social consciousness he would convert the mentality of
  competition into the mentality of coöperation, and foster the growth
  of the international mind, thus making end to war.” (R of Rs) The
  appendix gives newspaper comments on the production of “Caliban” in
  New York in 1916.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:49 N ‘17

  “As Mr MacKaye admits, there are other excellent ways of attaining the
  ‘international spirit,’ there are other ‘substitutes for war,’ but no
  one who reads this little book can deny that he proves his own scheme
  to be at least worth the trying. ... Little attention is given to the
  rather important subject of the effect of this new amateur ‘community
  drama’ on expert and professional acting and authorship.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 11 ‘17 250w

         =Cleveland= p135 D ‘17 110w

  “It is too slight to be of much value to the student of sociology or
  of the drama, nor specific enough to be of service to those interested
  in the practical aspects of the pageant or community play, and too
  emotional—too sentimental—to carry conviction to the intellectually
  aware.”

       — =Dial= 63:277 S 27 ‘17 280w

       — =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 60w

         =R of Rs= 56:443 O ‘17 130w


=MACKAYE, PERCY WALLACE.= Sinbad the sailor. *$1.25 Houghton 812
17-10549

  The tales of “Sinbad the sailor” and “Beauty and the beast” have been
  fused to make this “lyric phantasy” in a prelude and three acts. A
  note says that music for the play has been composed by Frederick S.
  Converse.

  “An extravagant but entertaining phantasy. ... Full descriptions make
  the play effective for reading aloud.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:440 Jl ‘17

  “The dialogue consists of sprightly nonsense on the Gilbertian order,
  and there are some good lyrics. The settings and transformations, the
  work of Joseph Urban, seem, as described, to be the last word in
  modern lighting and stagecraft.”

         =Cleveland= p75 Je ‘17 100w

  “Percy MacKaye proves himself more the poet than the dramatist for
  ‘Sinbad’ ends with all its ‘first line frenzy’ of inspiration, fancy,
  visualization, lyricism, naïvete, whimsicality in dramatic structure
  gone, lost in dull verbiage, vanished in its middle act.”

     + — =Ind= 91:135 Jl 28 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:75 My ‘17

  “If Mr MacKaye were an unknown, struggling author, one could offer him
  at least the gift of silence. But for a man of his standing in the
  world of literature and the drama to put forth such a ‘lyric phantasy’
  as ‘Sinbad’ is calculated to make the judicious grieve.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:313 Ag 26 ‘17 200w

       + =Pratt= p36 O ‘17 20w


=MCKELLAR, K. B.= Machine gun practice and tactics for officers, N. C.
O.’s and men. *90c Macmillan 358 17-18610

  A concise manual on methods of organization and machine gun units and
  sequence of training which has grown out of three years of experience
  at the front and in instructing men for active service in the present
  war.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:113 Ja ‘18

       + =Ind= 92:343 N 17 ‘17 20w

         =R of Rs= 56:550 N ‘17 30w


=MACKENNA, ROBERT WILLIAM.= Adventure of death. *$1.50 (5c) Putnam 218
17-15977

  Chapters on The great adventure; The fear of death; The painlessness
  of death; Euthanasia; What life gains from death; Does death end all?
  by a British physician who “has enjoyed exceptional opportunities of
  studying the state of mind and demeanour of those who are at the point
  of death, and of gathering and collating the experiences of soldiers
  who have faced the perils of war.” Dr MacKenna believes that a normal
  man in perfect health has “in some degree a salutary fear of death,”
  but that “when his hour comes, in almost every case the fear is lost,
  that a physician has no right to end the life of an apparently
  hopeless sufferer; that death in itself is painless, and that there is
  nothing inherently impossible in the survival of personality.”

  “No one is likely to find the slightest difficulty in following the
  argument of ‘The adventure of death,’ for it is very clearly written.
  Its chief blemishes are the over-abundance of quotations from the
  poets and philosophers—some of which seem to have more sound than
  relevance—and an extraordinary gaudiness of style.” J. F. S.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 530w

         =Cleveland= p106 S ‘17 20w

  “A beautifully and simply written little book whose perusal ought to
  do away entirely with the fear and horror of death that lurk in the
  minds of most normal people who have never been brought into much
  close connection with it.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:281 Jl 29 ‘17 710w

  “His little essay is eminently sane and comforting, and that without
  being a tract.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 19 ‘17 700w


=MCKENNA, STEPHEN.= Sonia; between two worlds. *$1.50 (1c) Doran
17-20668

  “Mr McKenna elects to call his novel ‘Sonia’; but Sonia Dainton,
  charming if turbulent, plays in reality but a small part in it. The
  story is mainly concerned with the doings and development of George
  Oakleigh, who acts as narrator, and his two friends, Lord Loring and
  David O’Rane, from their schooldays at Melton—the famous English
  public school that stands ‘like a group of temples on a modern
  Acropolis’—down to the first years of the great war.”—Spec

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:132 Ja ‘18

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:205 O ‘17 650w

  “Should the social historian of the future wish to find a convincing
  picture of one stratum of pre-war Britain he can do no better than
  read Stephen McKenna’s novel, ‘Sonia.’” F. I.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 26 ‘17 1000w

  “A substantial as well as absorbingly interesting novel, worth the
  time it takes to read.”

       + =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 100w

  “An excellent example of those novels of school and college life which
  only the English know how to write, perhaps because the English are
  the only ones who know how to live that life. But it is more than
  charming narration and delineation; it has a sense of the traits in
  British character which make it survive.”

       + =Dial= 63:280 S 27 ‘17 190w

  “Of course, Mr McKenna has chosen to write ‘Sonia’ in the bald
  narrative vein for purely artistic purposes. By making the everyday
  life of an aristocratic order that is passing so homely and friendly,
  by avoiding any quick, hot anger at the impeccable and stupid
  extravagance of silly routine, Mr McKenna can vivify O’Rane’s
  contrasting point of view more enduringly than by dramatic rant.” H.
  S.

       + =New Repub= 13:103 N 24 ‘17 820w

  “The novel is well written, done conscientiously, and with infinite
  care. A great deal of it is interesting, but unfortunately a great
  deal of it is excessively tiresome. It is a great pity that this
  should be so, for the book is in many ways excellent, an intelligently
  thought-out and carefully produced criticism of certain phases of
  English life as it was before the war.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:332 S 9 ‘17 500w

  “By a member of the recent British commission to Washington. The best
  part of this book, both for quantity and quality, consists of a review
  of the actions and thoughts of people in the years just preceding the
  war, beginning with the hero’s schooldays in 1898, and some account of
  the modifications which the war has brought about. We congratulate the
  author on much shrewd discernment and considerable wit, as well as on
  his attitude towards social problems. We wish we could as heartily
  commend his characterization, but here, especially in the case of the
  girl whose name figures in the title, his failure by comparison is
  very marked.”

     + — =Ontario Library Review= 1:119 My ‘17 100w

       + =R of Rs= 56:557 N ‘17 100w

       + =Spec= 118:416 Ap 7 ‘17 970w

  “The description of life in Mr Oakleigh’s London in the year of fate
  is really brilliant, an odd frenzied London, where an eager
  humanitarianism, showing itself in the sincere pursuit of social
  reform and international understanding, could mix with senseless
  personal indulgence. ... It is Mr Oakleigh’s vivid impressionism as a
  whole, rather than its details, that gives to this book its great
  interest.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p116 Mr 8 ‘17 800w


=MACKENZIE, CAMERON.= Man who tried to be it. il *$1 (5c) Doran 17-7928

  From Wellesville, where he had been general manager of a small
  business concern, John Hadden was called to Chicago to become
  president of the Consolidated shoe corporation. John Hadden was
  accounted a successful business man. He had power and driving force
  and he looked on the Consolidated as just another and wider field for
  the exercise of his abilities. But he failed at it, failed because he
  tried to do too much and because he treated his subordinates as
  subordinates and tried to make of them mere machines subject to his
  will. He failed because he tried to use in the big business methods
  that had been successful in the small business.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:405 Je ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 28 ‘17 350w

  “Tersely and interestingly told, and its ‘moral’ deserves a wide
  reading.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:99 Mr 18 ‘17 280w

  “The author displays considerable insight into the organization and
  conduct of a big corporation, and the story is an illuminating
  reminder of how far co-operation in the management of present-day
  corporations has supplanted the ‘one man’ control of a not distant
  day.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 280w

  “Capital character study of business men. ... No romance and rather
  unpleasant.”

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:159 My ‘17 70w


=MACKENZIE, DONALD A.= Stories of Russian folk-life. *2s 6d Blackie,
London

  “This volume of the ‘Story and legend library’ contains seven short
  stories of Russian life, both ancient and modern, and an introduction
  in which the author gives us an interesting sketch of a few of the
  most prominent facts of the geography and history of the country. Some
  of the stories are traditional, and in one we have an exciting and
  tragic encounter with wolves, while in the last, and in some ways the
  best, there is an account of the actual moment of transition for the
  peasants from serfdom to liberty.”—Spec

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:75 My ‘17 30w

       + =Sat R= 123:68 Ja 20 ‘17 150w

       + =Spec= 117:sup609 N 18 ‘16 100w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p526 N 2 ‘16 50w

  “‘Stories of Russian folk-life’ is a cheerful volume, and the pictures
  are good. But the title does not indicate the contents very clearly.
  The book is apparently not translated, and it is not the retelling of
  old tales. Mr Donald Mackenzie’s effort appears rather to have been to
  tell certain stories in the folk-lore spirit.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p607 D 14 ‘16 170w


=MACKENZIE, JEAN KENYON.= African trail. il 50c Central committee on the
united study of foreign missions. West Medford, Mass. 266 17-10203

  “A textbook on the approach of the Gospel to primitive peoples was
  ordered of this experienced missionary, after her striking letters
  under the title ‘Black sheep’ had appeared in the Atlantic Monthly in
  1915. The present work is the result, and is a unique and valuable
  contribution to the literature of missions.” (Boston Transcript) “For
  here is far more than simply an account of religious work among the
  Bulus. It is a poetic, impassioned setting forth of the great romantic
  endeavor of the messengers of the ‘tribe of God’; a description in few
  words of the effect on the white man of life among strange peoples; a
  remarkable analysis of the first results of the ‘technique of
  Christian living,’ the ‘ten tyings,’ on the heathen mind.” (Ind) A
  brief reading list is appended.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 9 ‘17 220w

         =Cleveland= p123 N ‘17 50w

  “The book is full of original and enlightening expressions, of keen
  psychology, of human sympathy. It stands beside Keable’s beautiful
  ‘City of the dawn,’ tho broader in scope and deeper in thought. It may
  be a good textbook. It certainly is literature.”

       + =Ind= 90:34 Ap 2 ‘17 170w

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 50w

  “There is not in existence any other missionary text-book that
  presents with such power the underlying psychology of certain African
  tribes.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:330 S ‘17 220w


=MACKINTOSH, HUGH ROSS.= Immortality and the future. *$1.50 (2c) Doran
218 A17-1602

  Dr Mackintosh, professor of theology in New college, Edinburgh,
  restates the Christian doctrine of life after death “on a new
  foundation, after careful examination of many arguments and much
  evidence for and against it.” (Springf’d Republican) “In the first
  part of the volume he takes up the historical development of ideas
  concerning death and a future life among primitive races and the
  earlier civilizations. Then, in four chapters, he studies the doctrine
  of death and life set forth in the Old Testament and Judaism, in the
  teachings of Jesus, in the apostolic age, and during the long history
  of the church. The second part, which fills more than half the book,
  is devoted to ‘a reconstructive statement’ of the hopes of the
  Christian world, the reasons therefor, and the conclusions of modern
  belief, deduced from historical and theological research, as to
  immortality.” (N Y Times) “Some part of the best literature for those
  who wish to pursue the study of this field is mentioned in the text or
  footnotes.” (Preface) The first edition of this book was published in
  England in 1915.

       + =N Y Times= 22:290 Ag 5 ‘17 400w

  “One of the best of recent books on the subject of life after death,
  written from the religious point of view.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 30 ‘17 370w


=MCKNIGHT, GEORGE HARLEY.=[2] St Nicholas: his legend and his rôle in
the Christmas celebration and other popular customs. il *$2 (5½c) Putnam
922

  How a dignified bishop of the medieval church came to take on the
  character of our popular Santa Claus is one of the matters touched on
  in this book. The author has brought together a store of scattered
  material relating to the real life of this saint and the legends that
  have grown up about him. He says, “In St Nicholas the reader will come
  in contact with a personality of unique amiability, whose influence
  has permeated popular customs for many centuries and has contributed
  much of sweetness to human life.” The illustrations show how the saint
  has been pictured in popular German prints, early Italian painting and
  other works of art. One interesting chapter is devoted to St Nicholas
  plays.

  “It is indeed to be regretted that we have known so little of the good
  Saint Nicholas himself. That want is readably and pleasantly filled in
  this new book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:566 D 16 ‘17 350w


=MCLAGLEN, LEOPOLD.= Bayonet fighting. il *75c National military pub.
co. 355 A18-120

  The system of bayonet fighting described in this little manual was
  invented by Captain McLaglen about the year 1910. In it there is a
  certain amount of jiu-jitsu. Twenty thousand men of the 1st and 2d
  Expeditionary force of Australia were instructed by Captain McLaglen
  in the new method and it is in wide use with the British troops. The
  fifty-five illustrations have captions printed in French as well as
  English.

         =N Y Times= 22:379 O 7 ‘17 120w


=MCLAREN, A. D.= Germanism from within. *$3 Dutton 914.3 17-26319

  “‘Germanism from within’ by A. D. McLaren is, as the title implies, a
  series of studies about the German people, but they have not all been
  called forth by the war, as many of them were written before it. Their
  central theme is an analysis of Germanism. The author has lived for
  seven years in Germany. He was in Berlin at the time of the
  declaration of war, was later arrested and spent eight months in a
  concentration camp. Mr McLaren treats all phases of German life,
  political, religious and military. ... An interesting chapter is
  devoted to the study of the Kaiser.”—Springf’d Republican

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:350 My ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 14 ‘17 720w

  “Thus the book is no mere by-product of the war. It is the careful
  work of a patient observer who has for thirty years been studying the
  politics, industry, education, character, and ideals of the German
  people.”

       + =Dial= 63:401 O 25 ‘17 270w

  “Far indeed from any shade of pro-Germanism, he yet believes some
  elements in the German nature are misconstrued. For example, even the
  severe Prussian is not a pure materialist. Of this the universal
  German devotion to the Christmas festival is evidence.”

         =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 70w

  “A journalist by profession—he was a reporter in Germany for the
  Sydney (Australia) Daily Telegraph from 1908 to 1915—Mr McLaren has
  observed German life and character from many points of view. ... There
  is often a certain hardness in Mr McLaren’s treatment and in his
  conclusion, but the reader is always aware of the great force of his
  logic. Mr McLaren’s chief weakness is his limited knowledge of German
  history.”

     + — =Nation= 104:687 Je 7 ‘17 220w

  “His frame of mind is notably judicial and his constant aim seems to
  be utterly fair to the German people.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:306 Ag 19 ‘17 330w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:675 O ‘17 20w

         =R of Rs= 55:551 My ‘17 100w

  “The book is painstaking and often interesting, but the author, in his
  conscientious efforts to be strictly fair (which he is), becomes at
  times a trifle labored and confused in his style.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p8 Mr 23 ‘17 350w


=MACLEAN, STUART.= Alexis; a study of love and music. *$1.50 (2c)
Appleton 17-22300

  “Cosmopolis, a bustling provincial city somewhere in the United
  States, possessed a first-class musical critic. Van Alstyne
  Bradshaw ... was a talented composer as well as a lover of all good
  music, and did his sincere best to improve the taste of Cosmopolis’s
  very self-satisfied inhabitants. But he had had a great sorrow in his
  life; he was an embittered man, inclined to be pessimistic, and very
  lonely, until he met the boy Alexis. The son of a washerwoman and a
  day laborer, both Hungarians, Alexis Vaczy was a born violinist. It
  did not take Bradshaw long to discover this fact, and what he did to
  Alexis and what Alexis did to him the book tells. ... Two love-stories
  help to complicate the plot.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:61 N ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 50w

  “It is not often that a reviewer finds himself in a glow over an
  American novel, but such is the present writer’s experience with
  ‘Alexis.’ ... It does not suffice to say that this story has
  attractive subject-matter, ... nor is it enough to say the story is
  exceptionally well written, or that the characters are deftly drawn,
  or that there is a lot of splendid talk about music and musicians. ...
  There is between the lines an indefinable quality of ardor, of the
  eagerness and intensity of youth and youthful ambitions. One knows
  from the start that the story will be a happy one.”

       + =Dial= 63:281 S 27 ‘17 200w

  “While it is evidently intended to be a study of the musical
  temperament, and as such is not badly done, the most interesting thing
  in the novel is the picture of the musical and would-be musical
  society of Cosmopolis.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:349 S 16 ‘17 340w

  “The work is distinctly above the average novel in intelligence.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 F 10 ‘18 440w


=MCMAHON, JOHN ROBERT.= Success in the suburbs. il *$2 (3c) Putnam 630
17-14063

  A book that offers to tell “how to locate, buy, and build; garden and
  grow fruit; keep fowls and animals.” This promise is repeated in the
  chapter headings: The hike to the suburbs; Scouting for a suburban
  home; Financing the suburban home; Legal fixings and fences; The
  suburbanite his own architect; The fireproof house; Remodeling old
  houses; The garden; Fruit trees and small fruits; Animals on the
  suburban place, etc. There are over forty excellent illustrations.
  Useful tables are given in an appendix.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:81 D ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 30 ‘17 430w

  “An interestingly written and practically suggestive book.”

       + =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 30w

  “His optimism is merry, not patronizing, and the more convincing that
  he sets up a moderate standard, planting it in good practical advice.
  Of course, covering much ground, the book is suggestive, not a
  complete building and garden guide.”

       + =Ind= 90:516 Je 16 ‘17 50w

  “It is a very interesting and instructive book, and combines
  practical, scientific, and legal instruction. With this book and
  personal enthusiasm it would seem possible to make a success of any
  suburb.”

       + =Lit D= 56:38 Ja 26 ‘18 200w

       + =Nation= 105:127 Ag 2 ‘17 430w

  “To all suburbanites and would-be suburbanites I introduce this book
  as the most complete work on the ‘suburban game’ yet published.” G: H.
  Hamilton

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 12 ‘17 400w

  “A practical book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:165 Ap 29 ‘17 50w

  “A rather slangy account of life in the suburbs, but at the same time
  a valuable account, for it contains many practical hints to the
  suburban dweller as to house and garden, orchard and poultry yard.”

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 36w

  “Many personal experiences are related which are of practical service
  to the novice in country life.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:220 Ag ‘17 120w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 400w


=MACMILLAN, MARY LOUISE.= More short plays. *$1.50 Stewart & Kidd 812
17-21729

  This is the author’s second book of plays suitable for amateur
  production. “Short plays” was published in 1915. Among the seven plays
  in the new book are two that are rather more ambitious than the title
  would suggest, “Honey,” with scenes laid in a southern mill town, and
  “The pioneers,” an historical play of the Middle West. The remaining
  plays, His second girl, At the church door, The dress rehearsal of
  Hamlet, In Mendelesia, parts 1 and 2, and The dryad, are shorter
  pieces.

  “All the plays are pleasing, however, viewed from different angles.
  ‘His second girl’ is a delightful bit of comedy. ... ‘The dryad’ is a
  poetic fantasy in verse that will appeal to the heart of every
  tree-lover.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:109 Ja ‘18 160w


=MACMURCHY, MARJORY.= Woman—bless her; not as amiable a book as it
sounds. *$1 Doran 396 (Eng ed 16-21046)

  “An appeal to women for proper recognition of their work in war and
  reconstruction. It is addressed primarily to the women of Canada, but
  can be read with benefit by women in the other dominions and in
  Britain. ‘The most useful economic and social war and reconstruction
  work that each woman can do,’ says Miss MacMurchy, ‘will be found more
  readily if she can define the economic and social duty of the class to
  which she belongs.’ To this end she divides women into categories. ...
  The writer proceeds to study the particular work in each category, to
  estimate its value to the nation, and to show where it can be
  developed and extended.”—Spec

  “Useful for the facts and statistics presented.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:149 Ja ‘17

  “Librarians should purchase this book and make special efforts to
  circulate it.”

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:30 S ‘16 250w

         =Spec= 117:837 D 30 ‘16 140w


=MCNALLY, GEORGIA MAUD.= Babyhood of wild beasts; with foreword by W. T.
Hornaday. il *$2 Doran 17-29790

  “Miss McNally was born and lived for a part of her early life on the
  frontier where she came to know something of the wild animals, to care
  for them and to feel that she understood them. The wild babies of whom
  she tells were some of them her own personal home friends, like
  Pompey, the baby lion, and others she became acquainted with in the
  big Bronx zoological and other gardens. All the wild babies she has
  known in one way or another, and the many interesting pictures are of
  the animals themselves.”—N Y Times

  “A fascinating account.”

       + =Lit D= 55:59 D 8 ‘17 80w

  “Through it all you get accurate scientific facts, with now and then a
  good scientific word smuggled in where its meaning is quite evident
  from the context. There is no sugar-coating of facts with silly
  stories. This is a book to be most heartily recommended to boys and
  girls of all ages.” R. F. Zametkin

       + =N Y Call= p18 D 15 ‘17 140w

         =N Y Times= 22:499 N 25 ‘17 160w


=MACNUTT, JOSEPH SCOTT.= Modern milk problem in sanitation, economics,
and agriculture. il *$2 (5½c) Macmillan 614.3 17-17296

  The author is lecturer on public health service in the Massachusetts
  institute of technology. His book stresses “the practical and economic
  as well as the sanitary factors involved,” and should interest not
  only health officials, milk inspectors, dairymen, city dealers,
  legislators and physicians, but also inquiring consumers.

  “The book covers practically the same ground as is covered by ‘The
  city milk supply’ by H. N. Parker. The chapters on the analysis of the
  sanitary aspects of the milk problem are well done. The chapter on the
  economic factors is superficial and does not even cover the secondary
  material available to the author. There is some valuable material in
  the appendix on milk statistics, grading systems, the North system,
  costs and prices, and milk products.” C. L. K.

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 74:300 N ‘17 80w

         =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 30w

       + =Ind= 92:109 O 13 ‘17 150w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p8 Jl ‘17 70w

  “Probably the only work combining in concise form the economic,
  agricultural and sanitary features.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:818 D ‘17 50w

       + =R of Rs= 56:554 N ‘17 120w

  “A distinct acquisition to the literature on the subject. Its most
  distinctive feature is its illuminating treatment of the economic
  factors which enter into the present-day milk problem.” L. F. Rettger

       + =Science= n s 46:292 S 21 ‘17 600w

  “Shows in a clear and intelligent manner why there is a milk problem.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 29 ‘18 360w

  “This book can be recommended as a reliable, up-to-date and readable
  exposition of the milk situation. Enough material in the way of facts
  and figures is inserted to support the argument fully.” Franz
  Schneider, jr.

       + =Survey= 39:72 O 20 ‘17 410w

  “A timely book, explaining why there is a milk problem, but more
  useful for the student than for the housewife or the baby’s nurse.
  Rosenau’s ‘Milk problem’ (1912) is more complete though now a little
  out of date. The bibliography (6p.) and the appendix material are
  excellent.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:29 Ja ‘18 40w


=MACQUARRIE, HECTOR.= How to live at the front. il *$1.25 (3c)
Lippincott 355 17-24528

  This is a book of “tips for American soldiers” by a second lieutenant
  of the British royal field artillery, who has been in the United
  States addressing young officers and men preparing for active service.
  Lieutenant MacQuarrie has tried to tell the American boys going to the
  front about the little things in warfare, not found in the official
  military textbooks or presented by staff reporters. He has much to say
  on discipline, on the details of life behind the firing-line and in
  the trenches, on the English and French people with whom the soldiers
  will come in contact and the British Tommy in particular, on the folks
  at home, the censoring of letters, the effect of war on character, and
  the desirability of studying the life of Jesus “to prevent war from
  killing your soul.” In the rather unusual chapter entitled “A curse of
  war,” he warns the young soldier against the fearful number of women
  now going about “quite unmoral and very kindhearted,” and begs him to
  remember that he is the father of future Americans and to give his
  children a fair chance.

  “Told with engaging straightforwardness and humor.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:54 N ‘17

  “From every aspect, light, serious, deeply human and sincerely
  religious, every American soldier will be helped by reading Lieutenant
  MacQuarrie’s book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 26 ‘17 210w

  “The author writes sensibly and clearly and enlivens his advice with
  anecdote, making the book enjoyable as well as informative.”

       + =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 100w

  “Written without pretension, it is reminiscent of the matter-of-fact
  advice of an elder brother who has seen the world to a younger brother
  who has not. It is not a book that goes to the roots of things, or
  tries to.”

       + =Dial= 63:589 D 6 ‘17 200w

       + =Ind= 92:342 N 17 ‘17 80w

  “The author is the more to be commended for the interesting, lively,
  readable humanness of this volume in the light of the fact that, where
  he finds it needed, he does not hesitate to run the risk of seeming to
  ‘preach’—though never was any approach to ‘preaching’ less sentimental
  and less dry. The chapter on ‘A curse of war’ is frank, sane, fine.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:2 Ja 6 ‘18 870w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:835 D ‘17 60w

  Reviewed by Ruth Stanley-Brown

       + =Pub W= 92:814 S 15 ‘17 550w

  “The advice is informally expressed and given in excellent spirit.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:215 F ‘18 100w

       + =St Louis= 15:417 D ‘17 30w

  “It is very much to the point; thoroughly practical, shrewd,
  vivacious, and clear.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p33 Ja 10 ‘18 30w


=MCSPADDEN, JOSEPH WALKER.= Book of holidays. il *$1.25 (4c) Crowell 394
17-31084

  Believing that our holidays are degenerating into mere play days, the
  author has taken upon himself the task of reminding us of their
  meaning. The book is adapted for young people. All our special days,
  are included: New Year’s day; Lincoln’s birthday, St Valentine’s day,
  Washington’s birthday, St Patrick’s day, Good Friday and Easter, May
  day, Arbor day, Bird day, Mothers’ day, Memorial day, Flag day,
  Independence day, Labor day, Columbus day, Hallowe’en, All Saints’
  day, Election day, Thanksgiving day, and Christmas.

         =Outlook= 117:615 D 12 ‘17 30w

  “The book will prove profitable reading for older persons as well as
  the young.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 D 21 ‘17 40w


=MADDOX, HARRY A.= Paper; its history, sources, and manufacture.
(Pitman’s common commodities of commerce) il 85c Pitman 676 17-15681

  “‘A book written with a view to acquainting the general reader with a
  full understanding of how raw material is converted into paper. ...
  Gives an excellent history of the introduction of the early forms of
  crude paper from the East, together with matter relating to the making
  of paper in England and the Continent in early times.’ Inland
  Printer”—Pittsburgh

  “Covers much the same ground as Dawe but gives more space to the
  history of paper making, is more detailed as to manufacture, does not
  contain so many descriptions of the different kinds of paper, and is
  sixty-five cents cheaper.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:46 N ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 10w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17

  “Valuable for the school library—especially the historical sections.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p19 Ap ‘17 50w

  “Mr Maddox is an authority on this subject. Descriptions of the
  various machines and details as to their operation, full explanations
  of the methods employed in making handmade papers, and other
  interesting facts, make the book a most valuable one for the printer,
  the stationer, the advertising man, the engraver, the artist, the
  lithographer, and others, not to mention the people directly concerned
  with the manufacture and sale of papers.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:341 Ap ‘17 70w (Reprinted from Printing Art p65
         Mr ‘17)

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:458 My ‘17 50w (Reprinted from Inland Printer
         p103 Ap ‘17)

  “Primarily for those concerned in making, handling or using paper, yet
  written in language intelligible to the general reader.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:660 O ‘17 40w

  “Brief semi-technical treatise which would be instructive to the
  general reader interested in knowing how paper is made.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 18w


=MADSEN, ARTHUR WILHELM.= State as manufacturer and trader; an
examination based on the commercial, industrial and fiscal results
obtained from government tobacco monopolies. *7s 6d T. Fisher Unwin,
London 336.19 (Eng ed 16-23037)

  “The purpose of this monograph is apparently to show the defects of
  government-managed industries, and so far as tobacco manufacture is
  concerned, the effort is entirely successful. The author presents
  brief sketches of the state tobacco monopoly in France, Italy,
  Austria, Japan, Spain and Sweden. He shows the financial results, the
  popular verdict on the quality of goods produced, and the
  unbusinesslike management of the public authorities. Outside of France
  his sources of information seem to have been meager, but there is
  undoubtedly an unanimous verdict against government control in all the
  countries treated.”—Ann Am Acad

  “An appendix of over sixty pages to which the author continually
  refers in the text contains many valuable statistical tables. These
  tables derived from official reports, indicate by countries the
  financial results of tobacco monopolies, the wages paid to factory
  operatives, etc. ... Whether one agrees or disagrees with the attitude
  of the author towards state socialism, one is unfavorably impressed by
  the absence in his work of an impartial analysis of the testimonials
  presented, by the lack of a judicious weighing of arguments pro and
  con.” Simon Litman

     – + =Am Econ R= 7:434 Je ‘17 480w

  “It is unnecessary to emphasize the point that the author’s
  conclusions, founded on a single industry, are not to be applied
  without reserve to all government undertakings.” J. T. Y.

         =Ann Am Acad= 70:328 Mr ‘17 100w

         =Ath= p475 O ‘16 40w

         =Nation= 104:557 My 3 ‘17 140w

  “A competent résumé of the world’s experience with the principal
  commercial industry carried on by the government in any considerable
  number of countries.”

       + =New Repub= 10:173 Mr 10 ‘17 400w

         =Spec= 117:sup534 N 4 ‘16 80w


=MAETERLINCK, MAURICE.= Light beyond; tr. by Alexander Teixeira de
Mattos. *$2 (4c) Dodd 236

  The mystery of death has always held the imagination of Maurice
  Maeterlinck, and of late years he has tended to give it more and more
  of his thought, a tendency intensified by the war. In this volume the
  translator has collected “a selection of essays illustrating the later
  stages of Maeterlinck’s quest.” They are chosen from the three volumes
  entitled, “Our eternity,” “The unknown guest,” and “The wrack of the
  storm.”

  “Too frank and sincere a philosopher to assume that he can answer with
  finality a question which has defied the ages, he contents himself
  with reviewing the evidence pro and con as he sees it, leaving
  deductions to those who read.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:498 N 25 ‘17 980w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p531 N 1 ‘17 40w


=MAETERLINCK, MAURICE.=[2] News of spring, and other nature studies; tr.
by Alexander Teixeira de Mattos. il *$3 (9c) Dodd 580.4

  A collection of nature studies. Only one of them, Our city gardens,
  reprinted from the Daily Mail [London], is new to American readers.
  The other papers have been selected from “The measure of the hours”
  and “The double garden.” The translator says, “I have taken the
  opportunity not only of revising my translation with some
  thoroughness, but also of introducing all the additions and
  corrections which the author has made in the French edition of these
  two books.” Contents: Our city gardens; The intelligence of the
  flowers; Perfumes; News of spring; Field flowers; Chrysanthemums;
  Old-fashioned flowers; The wrath of the bee. There are twenty
  illustrations in color by Edward J. Detmold.

  “An exquisite book indeed. We may point out to those who have not read
  ‘The double garden’ and ‘The measure of the hours’ that the lover of
  beauty, as of nature, can ill-afford to miss such essays as these.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:558 D 16 ‘17 670w


=MAGNUS, LEONARD ARTHUR.= Pros and cons in the great war, a record of
foreign opinion, with a register of fact. *$2 Dutton 940.91 17-2674

  “An alphabetized compilation of opinions, the material for which has
  been drawn mainly from German and other foreign sources, with
  occasional reference to official documents.” (Ath) “There are many of
  the things which a student would look for: as atrocities, balance of
  power, Belgium, commercial rivalry, the Entente, envelopment of
  Germany, false news, the Hague conventions, hatred, Italy, Kaiser,
  kultur, Middle Europe, militarism, navalism, Pan-Germanism, Poland,
  prisoners, right of search, the United States, and the causes of the
  war. The book very largely contains hostile opinions, with some
  arguments in opposition, and some comments by the editor himself.”
  (Nation)

  “Very useful for reference.”

       + =Ath= p106 F ‘17 60w

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

     + — =Bookm= 46:390 N ‘17 30w

  “An excellent bibliography contains a long list of contemporary
  writings upon the war, which the ordinary reader would never know of.
  It must be said that the numerous pieces out of which the book is made
  have not always been well put together.”

     + — =Nation= 105:567 N 22 ‘17 370w


=MAGNUSSON, CARL EDWARD.= Alternating currents. il *$4 McGraw 621.31
16-24124

  A work by the professor of electrical engineering in the University of
  Washington. “The treatment is of theory, not heavily loaded with field
  and shop practicalities, and aims to help students to gain an idea of
  internal reactions and to handle certain physical facts in
  mathematical shorthand. Transformers are taken up after voltage
  generation and circuit properties. This is followed by motors,
  generators, converters, insulation, polyphase power, long-distance
  transmission.” (Engin N)

  “A good text for college classes, suitable for more advanced reference
  work. ... Contains problems, a few footnote references, and many
  diagrams, some of which are not very satisfactory.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:383 Je ‘17

  “Another addition has been made to the already long list of electrical
  teaching texts that are primarily lecture notes arranged to satisfy
  the specific needs of specific institutions. By stating that the book,
  even though having 500 odd pages, covers only fundamentals, the scope
  is indicated. ... The chief feature of originality lies in pushing the
  study of transmission lines farther than common with undergraduates.”

       + =Engin N= 77:110 Ja 18 ‘17 120w


=MAHER, RICHARD AUMERLE.= Gold must be tried by fire. il *$1.50 (1½c)
Macmillan 17-10983

  As in two earlier novels, Father Maher has told a story of industrial
  conditions in northern New York. The scene is a mill town, dependent
  wholly on the paper manufacturing industry for its existence. Daidie
  Grattan, who three years before had thrown a wrench into her machine
  and walked out of a cotton factory, comes to Barton to work in the
  mill. In the years following her act of rebellion the girl had gone
  thru a bitter experience, but she had found healing at the hands of a
  Catholic sisterhood and with new courage had come out into the world
  with the hope of helping other girls. Not until she is employed in his
  mill does she discover that Hugh Barton is the man who had once saved
  her life in a crisis. The situation between these two is worked out
  against a background of industrial unrest, labor warring with capital,
  the independent manufacturer fighting for his life against the trust.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:27 O ‘17

  “Mr Richard Aumerle Maher marries his attractive working girl to the
  son of the millowner. As the publishers say, this does ‘bring the
  volume to a pleasing close,’ but I have a feeling that things do not
  happen so. The real strength of the novel is the dramatic picture of
  the industrial wars.” J: Macy

     + — =Dial= 63:112 Ag 16 ‘17 190w

  “Like ‘The Shepherd of the North,’ by the same author, this is a tale
  of sentiment without being a tale of folly.”

       + =Nation= 104:737 Je 21 ‘17 280w

  “If you start reading ‘Gold must be tried by fire’ you are compelled
  to finish it, although you are apt to wonder why you ever began it.”

         =N Y Times= 22:195 My 20 ‘17 370w

  “There are tenseness and power in situation and treatment.”

       + =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 30w


=MAHER, RICHARD AUMERLE.= While shepherds watched. il *$1.25 (4½c)
Macmillan 244 17-28077

  Father Maher has retold the story of the birth of Christ. Beginning in
  the early chapters with the annunciation and the visit to Elizabeth,
  he continues the story thru the journey to Bethlehem, the birth of the
  child and the visit of the wise men and shepherds, and closes with an
  interpretation of the meaning of this child’s birth to the world.

  “A vivid interpretation of the Christ story suitable for the older and
  more thoughtful children and for adults.”

       + =Ind= 92:446 D 1 ‘17 30w

  “Written with feeling and simplicity.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:564 D 16 ‘17 110w


=MAHIN, JOHN LEE.= Advertising; selling the consumer. 2d ed il *$2 (3c)
Pub. by Doubleday for the Associated advertising clubs of the world 659
16-22121

  “The author reviews the economic and social factors related to
  selling. He emphasizes the mediums and English of advertising rather
  than purely psychological principles. The power of personal
  salesmanship and the need of individual initiative are shown in
  relation to middleman and consumer. The present business organization
  from producer to distributor is seen to be that of profit yielding
  according as the group spirit is understood by the advertiser in
  telling his message.” (Ann Am Acad) “The work is based on lectures
  delivered before the School of commerce of Northwestern university,
  and for this new edition has been revised, with some new chapters
  substituted for old.” (N Y Times) The book was first published in
  1914.

  “This book is one of the few dynamic advertising books in the field at
  the present time.” H. W. H.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 73:231 S ‘17 90w

  “An interesting feature of the book is the descriptive list of books
  for supplementary reading which follows each chapter.”

         =N Y Times= 22:173 Ap 29 ‘17 200w


=MAHONEY, HENRY CHARLES.= Sixteen months in four German prisons: Wesel,
Sennelager, Klingelputz, Ruhleben; chronicled by F: A. A. Talbot. il
*$1.50 McBride 940.91 (Eng ed 17-7955)

  “Mr Mahoney is, by profession, an expert in photography. At the
  outbreak of the war he was in Germany, with his camera, on his way to
  take up an interesting appointment in Warsaw. Unable to get into
  Russia, he tried to get back into Holland, but was denounced as a spy,
  arrested, taken to Wesel, and subjected to the formidable ordeal of a
  midnight secret trial. ... Mr Mahoney was able to establish his
  innocence. He was not formally acquitted, but the charge was not
  pressed, and he was interned in Sennelager. After a time he was
  released, but only to be re-arrested and sent to Ruhleben, whence he
  was eventually returned to England as an invalid, unfit for military
  service. And now he tells, with Mr Talbot’s collaboration, his long
  and exciting story.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “Altogether, the picture of ‘Prussian militarism’ exhibited by Mr
  Mahoney is a hideously repellent one, and his recital gives no
  evidence of exaggeration, either.” Joshua Wanhope

       + =N Y Call= p14 O 28 ‘17 1100w

  “The book is more than a recital of a prisoner’s sufferings in
  Germany; it is a splendidly thrilling tale of heroism and adventure.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:478 N 18 ‘17 500w

         =St Louis= 15:166 Je ‘17

  “If anything more were needed to pillory Germany in the world’s
  opinion, this book would supply the deficiency. Mr Mahoney tells of
  the attempts of the American ambassador to mitigate the hardships of
  the English prisoners, and of the deceit practiced on him by the
  authorities. This chapter harmonizes with Mr Gerard’s own narrative.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 5 ‘18 450w

  “The chief interest, if not the chief merit, of Mr Mahoney’s book lies
  in the fact that he has told the truth about Sennelager, where things
  were done which have dug a formidable gulf between the British and
  German peoples, and about Major Bach, the infamous commandant of that
  camp. ... The evil fame of the unspeakable major has penetrated into
  every prison camp in Germany.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p51 F 1 ‘17 1100w


=MAHONEY, JOHN JOSEPH.= Standards in English. (School efficiency
monographs) *90c World bk. 808 17-20535

  A course of study in oral and written composition for elementary
  schools. The course was worked out in practice while the author, now
  principal of the State normal school at Lowell, Mass., was assistant
  superintendent of schools in Cambridge. Part 1 of the book consists of
  a discussion of the course; part 2 of an outline of work by grades.

  “The movement for economy of time has nowhere been as well carried out
  in actual school practice as in Mr Mahoney’s ‘Standards in English.’
  The style of the book is direct and non-technical and it should be put
  in the hands of elementary school teachers for the distinct
  improvement of oral and written work in English.”

       + =El School J= 18:231 N ‘17 470w


=MAINS, GEORGE PRESTON.= James Monroe Buckley. $1.50 Meth. bk. 17-22865

  “By common consent, Dr J. M. Buckley, for more than thirty years
  editor of the New York Christian Advocate, has been and still is the
  accepted spokesman and leader of American Methodism. This fact alone
  might entitle him to the somewhat unusual honor of a biography
  published during his lifetime. ... The author treats his subject in
  separate chapters as editor, debater and parliamentarian, traveler,
  and author. Not the least interesting part of the record is the story
  of Dr Buckley’s triumph over physical handicaps that would have
  discouraged an ordinary man.”—R of Rs

  “We consider the book of great value. Dr Buckley is a very remarkable
  man. ... This book was written for a purpose, but its purpose was not
  simply to interest and please. It will do both, but primarily it was
  meant to help. ... It not only reveals the greatness of this man, but
  the possible greatness of every normal man.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 1250w

       + =Outlook= 117:26 S 5 ‘17 80w

  “Dr Buckley’s personality is so compelling, his versatility in thought
  and expression so remarkable, and his proved ability in diverse fields
  of activity so well known, that thousands within and without the great
  Methodist fold will welcome the book that his colleague, Dr Mains, has
  felt impelled to write. The work is naturally eulogistic, but the
  author does not permit himself to abandon the judicial attitude.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:439 O ‘17 150w


=MAJOR, CLARE TREE.= How to develop your personality; with a foreword by
Sir Herbert Tree. il *$1 (4c) Crowell 174 16-18755

  The author is a graduate of the Academy of dramatic art of London,
  founded by Sir Herbert Tree, and many of the principles of that school
  are embodied in her book. The book is divided into four parts:
  Physical personality; Vocal personality; Self-expression; and Mental
  power.

  “Very practical little text book. It is primarily intended for the
  actor, but there is very little in it which does not apply and cannot
  be used with profit by any man or woman.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 11 ‘17 250w

       + =N Y Times= 22:297 Ag 12 ‘17 80w

  “The author presents her teachings in a straightforward, sensible
  manner.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:106 Jl ‘17 110w


=MALORY, SIR THOMAS.=[2] Romance of King Arthur and his knights of the
Round table; abridged by Alfred W: Pollard. il *$2.50 (1½c) Macmillan
398.2 17-28655

  This abridgment of Malory’s “Morte d’Arthur” has been made by Mr
  Pollard of the British museum, who had previously edited a complete
  edition of the work. With a scholar’s respect for a master work, the
  editor has refrained from revision, confining himself to the
  elimination of repetition. He says, “I have tried to clear away some
  of the underwoods that the great trees may be better seen, and though
  I know that I have cleared away some small timber that is fine stuff
  in itself, if the great trees stand out the better, the experiment may
  be forgiven.” A glossary is provided. Sixteen pictures in color and
  others in black and white are Arthur Rackham’s contribution to the
  book.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:142 Ja ‘18

  “The abridged edition, excellently illustrated by Arthur Rackham, is
  of distinctive literary worth and the book itself is most attractively
  bound.”

       + =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 40w

  “As the omitted matter is largely of a redundant character, the
  present edition will answer fully the requirements of readers in
  general.”

       + =Int Studio= 63:127 Ja ‘18 110w

  “Young readers should welcome this judicious abridgment of Malory by a
  scholar who has feeling for the original, and who has weighed
  carefully what is best suited to boys and girls. The edition is
  beautifully printed, with illustrations in color—some of the best done
  by Rackham.”

       + =Lit D= 55:56 D 8 ‘17 100w

  “Sir Thomas Malory himself would be hard to please were he
  dissatisfied with the fashion in which Arthur Rackham has chosen to
  limn his lords and ladies. The illustrator’s occasionally troublesome
  wealth of detail is here artistically consistent with the text.”

       + =Sat R= 124:sup6 D 8 ‘17 230w

  “Mr Pollard has done his work well, and the old stories of Lancelot
  and Galahad, of Gawain and Tristram, and their fellow-knights will in
  this simpler form gain many new readers.”

       + =Spec= 119:sup473 N 3 ‘17 130w

  “The artist has given much thought and study to the costuming of the
  remote period, but in physiognomy Mr Rackham is not to be absolved
  from the charge of a tendency toward caricature. This defect in Mr
  Rackham’s art is rather serious. The book, however, makes an
  ornamental and valuable addition to one’s library. The scholar’s
  contribution gives it more than the usual importance of works of this
  type.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 630w

  “Mr Pollard in abridging Malory has only done for young readers what
  most older readers have learned to do for themselves. And Mr Rackham
  seems to have been fortified by the greatness of the matter. His
  design has never before been so bold, his colour so rich and clear.
  His touches of comedy are adroit, his tragic sense more powerful than
  in any of his previous works.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p613 D 13 ‘17 220w


=MANGOLD, GEORGE BENJAMIN.= Challenge of Saint Louis. il 60c Missionary
education movement 309.1 17-25094

  “Starting out with a religious survey, Dr Mangold finds there are some
  400 Christian churches, valued at some $15,000,000. He then wants to
  know what these churches do in connection with the 21,000 illiterates
  of the city; with that half of the children who do not finish the
  eighth grade; with the 10,000 children at work. ... Dr Mangold wants
  to know what the churches are doing to help remedy these and many
  other evils. He insists all through the book that the church has a
  duty to perform and that it cannot remain satisfied with mere lip
  service.” (Survey) Dr Mangold is director of the Saint Louis school of
  social economy and the book is intended for mission study classes.

  “Mr Mangold, whose word in social economy is authoritative, discusses
  [these problems] with rare dispassionateness.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 27 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:690 O ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:320 S ‘17 10w

  “Those who study it will not only learn that ‘something must be done,’
  but why it must be done and what can and should be done. Dr Mangold
  has performed a good service, both as a sociologist and as a
  Christian.” Oscar Leonard

       + =Survey= 39:148 N 10 ‘17 430w


=MANIATES, BELLE KANARIS.= Amarilly in love. il *$1.25 (2½c) Little
17-26657

  This book is a sequel to “Amarilly of Clothes-Line alley.” “In Miss
  Maniates’s former story Amarilly helped to clean in a theatre, and was
  regularly engaged to keep in order the studio of Derry Phillips,
  artist, who took an interest in her and decided that she ought to be
  helped into better surroundings. But it was her energy and foresight
  and resource that ‘syndicated’ the family, so that every one earned
  something, and when they had pooled their earnings they were presently
  able to buy a little farm not too far from a town, and live in health
  and comfort and country plenty. There the reader finds them at the
  opening of this story. Amarilly, by the bounty of Derry Phillips, has
  been four years in college and is soon due to return home. A somewhat
  mysterious man has just bought the adjoining property, and the reader
  is for a time kept in doubt as to whether Amarilly is to be ‘in love’
  with this man or with her benefactor, who is at work at his art in
  Paris.” (N Y Times)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:27 O ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:340 N ‘17 100w

  “Those who enjoyed reading of the adventures of ‘Amarilly of
  Clothes-Line alley’ will doubtless find pleasure in this ‘joyous
  record’ of her later experiences.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 220w

  “The story is a slight little thing, but it is gay and breezy.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:318 Ag 26 ‘17 450w


=MANIATES, BELLE KANARIS.= Our next-door neighbors. il *$1.35 (3½c)
Little 17-7455

  A family of amazingly ill-behaved children are the center of interest
  in this story. A childless couple who know very little of the habits
  of the children of the species, watch with apprehension the arrival of
  the Polydores. Their apprehensions are more than justified. Father and
  mother Polydore, one literary, the other scientific, have little time
  to devote to their offspring, and when the two go off suddenly on an
  expedition to Chile, the five boys are left in the care of the Wades,
  who very reluctantly find themselves won over by the naughty but
  engaging youngsters.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:355 My ‘17

  “An engaging little tale, having many of those qualities which made
  its predecessor, ‘Amarilly of Clothesline alley,’ so popular. It
  lacks, however, the former’s spontaneity.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 16 ‘17 260w

  “A ghost story, a love story, and the story of an eccentric and
  moneyed uncle are all worked into the texture of the lightly woven
  material, which forms altogether an amusing fabrication.”

       + =Dial= 62:247 Mr 22 ‘17 110w

       + =Ind= 90:87 Ap 7 ‘17 40w

  “The tale would be amusing if it had some tinge of possibility, but it
  is exaggerated out of all relation to real life. ... The vivacious
  style of the book makes it pleasant reading, however, if one does not
  try to fancy its young barbarians in the world of actuality.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:90 Mr 11 ‘17 150w

  “The children are not particularly attractive and the character
  portraiture generally is rather dim.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 170w


=MANTZ, HAROLD ELMER.= French criticism of American literature before
1850. (Columbia univ. studies in romance philology and literature)
*$1.50 Columbia univ. press 810.4 17-12600

  “In the following study an attempt is made to discover French opinion
  on the subject of American literature, from about the beginning of the
  nineteenth century to about the year 1850.” (Preface) In such early
  French criticism as exists the author finds a reflection of
  disappointment. The French had looked to the literature of the new
  republic for an expression of the ideals of liberty, and they found in
  it only an imitation of the traditions of English literature. French
  criticism thereafter ceased to notice American writers until
  Tocqueville wrote his “Démocratie en Amérique.” The quotations in the
  volume are in French, without translation.

  “A graver defect in Mr Mantz’s study is that his ‘selection’ does not
  select some of the most important periodicals of the epoch. He has not
  included the famous Globe, that herald of cosmopolitan criticism, nor
  any authoritative newspaper of the class of the Journal des Débats.
  Some salient articles such as that of Balzac on Cooper (Revue
  Parisienne, 1840) receive no mention whatever.”

     + — =Nation= 105:608 N 29 ‘17 590w

  “One or two first-rate minds hardly redeem the mediocrity and
  pretentiousness of much of the criticism which Mr Mantz reproduces
  here.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 30 ‘17 450w


=MARBURG, THEODORE.= League of nations. *50c (3c) Macmillan 341.1
17-29206

  “This little book is a history of the movement in the United States to
  secure action by the United States and other nations, after this great
  world war, looking to the establishment of a League to enforce peace.”
  (Foreword) Mr Marburg was one of the originators of the movement and
  his purpose here is to describe the developments with which he has
  been connected. He calls his book “A chapter in the history of the
  movement,” and hopes to follow it later with a second volume. William
  H. Taft has written a foreword.

  “A concise exposition of a movement toward the establishment of a
  durable world-at-peace. Its chief merit is its freedom from wordy
  explanations and extravagant forecasts, so common in many works on the
  subject.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 29 ‘17 160w

         =Cleveland= p8 Ja ‘18 30w

  “Little need be said about this work, as it is practically nothing
  more than a restatement of the familiar aims of the league and its
  progress since war was declared. It may be taken as authoritative by
  those who consider the matter as one of particular importance.” Joshua
  Wanhope

     – + =N Y Call= p14 D 29 ‘17 340w


=MARCOSSON, ISAAC FREDERICK.= Leonard Wood, prophet of preparedness. il
*75c (8c) Lane 17-10224

  The foreword says, “The most effective way of presenting any cause is
  in human terms, and, if possible, through the medium of a personality
  that exemplifies the larger principles involved. There was no need of
  extended search for a subject. General Wood literally incarnated both
  the letter and the spirit of preparedness. ... The story of his life,
  therefore, is offered as a human document in evidence of the great
  cause to which he has dedicated his courage and his character.” The
  material of the book appeared in a magazine article in Everybody’s,
  March, 1917.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:400 Je ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 16 ‘17 270w

  “Can easily be read in an hour and is worth several.”

     + + =Ind= 90:215 Ap 28 ‘17 140w

  “Although his book is written from the viewpoint of ardent admiration,
  Mr Marcosson has sufficiently restrained his enthusiasm to make his
  rapid survey of General Wood’s career a just and true appreciation of
  his service to the nation.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:121 Ap 1 ‘17 300w

       + =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 200w

         =Pratt= p49 O ‘17 10w


=MARCOSSON, ISAAC FREDERICK.= Rebirth of Russia. il *$1.25 (3½c) Lane
947 17-21674

  The accomplished American journalist left London for Russia upon the
  news of the abdication of the Czar. He was greeted upon arrival as a
  representative of the new republic’s newest ally in the fight for
  freedom. The United States had gone to war with Germany between March
  16 and April 7, while he travelled. In his first chapter, The long
  night, he tells of the pro-German forces in the Russian government
  which precipitated the revolution. The succeeding five chapters
  describe in vivid detail the scenes which were enacted while he was in
  England. These include the abdication of the Czar. Later he writes of
  what he himself saw and heard from such men as Kerensky, Prince Lvoff,
  etc., and tells of the labor unrest which followed the proclamation of
  the republic. The chapter on The revolution makers and the
  illustrations from photographs will be found of interest.

  “Those who have followed these absorbing events in the press from day
  to day will be especially grateful for a more rationalized and
  consecutive account in book form than the daily press could possibly
  afford.” J. E. Conner

       + =Am Hist R= 23:435 Ja ‘18 460w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:54 N ‘17

       + =Ath= p419 Ag ‘17 80w

  Reviewed by Abraham Yarmolinsky

     + — =Bookm= 46:483 D ‘17 100w

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 18 ‘17 550w

  “‘The revolution in Petrograd’ might have been a more descriptive
  title, for Mr Marcosson gives the impression that the most of the
  action went on in the capital, whereas we know that it had an
  empire-wide effect. As it stands ‘The rebirth of Russia’ neither
  measures up to the demands of that momentous event nor completely
  records it.”

     – + =Cath World= 106:394 D ‘17 380w

  “There will be more complete and adequate accounts of the revolution
  when time has permitted the sifting of facts and documents, but this
  pioneer work is like the Russian revolution itself, vivid, tumultuous,
  rapid, impressionistic.”

       + =Ind= 93:72 Ja 12 ‘18 280w

  “But it is a pity that Mr Marcosson deals so slightly, and
  slightingly, with two outstanding items of universal interest: the
  Council of workmen’s and soldiers’ delegates gets rather shabby
  treatment from him; one can only gather that he does not approve of
  it. And Rasputin—that strange, mysterious man is passed over with a
  few adjectives. Of tremendous interest are the sketches of Lvoff,
  Milyukoff, and of Guchkoff, and the other members of the provisional
  government.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:56 N 10 ‘17 200w

  “A first class piece of descriptive writing. The reader is taken
  through all the successive phases of the great overturn, down almost
  to the present time, and the narrative is, we think, one of the best
  pieces of work that Mr Marcosson has ever done.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 S 23 ‘17 380w

  “His book is disappointing, for it shows little of the touch of the
  first hand observer. ... But it has the virtue of giving a succinct,
  comprehensive account of the great event, with its preludes and its
  consequences for a short time afterward.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:289 Ag 5 ‘17 1250w

  “An account somewhat summary in treatment, somewhat rhetorical in
  style, but informing and filled with significant or striking
  incidents.”

     + — =No Am= 206:798 N ‘17 590w

       + =Outlook= 117:65 S 12 ‘17 40w

  “He does not dawdle over the sentimental aspects of the era, but loses
  none of its dramatic values.” E. P. Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 92:812 S 15 ‘17 370w

         =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 70w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 6 ‘17 210w

  “Until it is replaced by a more weighty and judicious history of the
  revolution—and that cannot be for many years—this little volume is a
  decidedly useful source of information on contemporary Russia.” B. L.

       + =Survey= 38:549 S 22 ‘17 170w

  “Perhaps the most useful of Mr Marcosson’s chapters is that in which
  he gives us a sort of ‘Who’s who’ of the revolution. The names of many
  of the leaders are puzzlingly long, and the records of the greater
  number are familiar to few but their own countrymen.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p350 Jl 26 ‘17 600w


=MARCOSSON, ISAAC FREDERICK.= War after the war. il *$1.25 (1½c) Lane
382 17-6755

  Trade rivalry after the war is the theme of this book. “Peace will be
  as great a shock as war,” writes the author. “Hence the need of
  preparedness to meet the inevitable conflict for universal trade.
  We—as a nation—are as unready for this emergency as we are to meet the
  clash of actual physical combat. Commercial preparedness is as vital
  to the national well being as the training for arms.” Contents: The
  coming war; England awake; American business in France; The new
  France; Saving for victory; The price of glory; The man Lloyd George;
  From pedlar to premier.

  “He has gained his facts at first hand in Europe, and gives two keen
  character sketches, one of William Morris Hughes, prime minister of
  Australia and his contribution to England’s awakening, and one of
  Lloyd-George in action.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:377 Je ‘17

  “Mr Marcosson wrote before the United States entered the war, and on
  the assumption that she would not be drawn in. But his major thesis is
  not notably affected by the change of circumstances. His argument is,
  on the whole, plausible. The danger of commercial isolation and
  decadence of the United States seems, however, exaggerated.”

     + — =Dial= 63:213 S 13 ‘17 450w

         =Ind= 90:380 My 26 ‘17 180w

  “It is a fair enough warning for America to organize and nationalize
  her export trade. Mr Marcosson does good service in dramatizing that
  warning. But he does a better service in his popular Sunday newspaper
  supplement style of exposition of the intricate financial machinery
  underlying the war.”

         =New Repub= 10:302 Ap 7 ‘17 400w

  “Those who may dissent from Mr Marcosson’s views in this particular
  will assent to praise of the piquancy with which he puts his position
  before the reader.”

         =N Y Times= 22:217 Je 3 ‘17 1000w

       + =R of Rs= 55:551 My ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:137 My ‘17 20w

  “Marcosson sounds a timely warning to the United States as to the
  commercial self-reliance.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 110w

  “Mr Marcosson is most interesting when he deals with matters of
  finance, and it is significant that he renounces the theory of
  economic exhaustion which he previously held and is now convinced that
  ‘the extents to which financial credit can be expended in the
  countries at war seems to be almost without limit.’ that ‘man
  power—beef, not gold—will win.’” Nannie Young

         =Survey= 38:360 Jl 21 ‘17 200w

  “The most notable portion of the book is his frank criticism of
  American business organization and methods.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p179 Ap 12 ‘17 500w


=MARGOLIS, MAX LEOPOLD.= Story of Bible translations. il 75c Jewish pub.
221 17-16188

  “The author confines his work to the translations of the Hebrew
  scriptures. ... Additional chapters reveal the inherent difficulties
  of Bible translation and enumerate the various agencies for the
  circulation of the Scriptures.”—R of Rs

  “Professor Margolis tells his story interestingly, in an easy, flowing
  style; he writes in a judicial and moderate spirit, with an evident
  desire of fairness, and if he lays more stress than is usual upon the
  work of Jewish scholars, it is because his little book is intended
  chiefly for Jews and aims to give the Jewish point of view. ... He
  appears to be unacquainted with the claim, made by Cardinal Gasquet,
  of a Catholic origin for the first translation of the Bible into
  English; nor does he know, apparently, the influence of the Douay
  version upon the authorized King James. His whole chapter on the age
  of the reformation is too much influenced by the traditional
  Protestant view.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:117 O ‘17 200w

  “Special emphasis is laid upon the work that has been done by Jewish
  scholars from the days of Saadya, Rashi and David Kimhi down to the
  present time.”

         =Ind= 92:67 O 6 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:698 O ‘17 10w

         =R of Rs= 56:330 S ‘17 110w


Marion, by the author of “Me.” il *$1.35 Watt

  “Marion, one of the eleven children of an English artist settled in
  Hochelaga, the French quarter of Montreal, tells her own story.
  Endowed with beauty and brains, and not endowed with a single shred of
  discretion, nor with the apparently almost extinct quality that used
  to be known as womanly reserve, she fares forth into the world of
  Bohemia, to earn her bread as actress, artist’s assistant, model—any
  unconventional and hazardous thing that comes to hand. ... Marion
  passes through many compromising situations, thrilling adventures,
  hairbreadth escapes from both want and infamy.”—N Y Times

  “That it is written with vivacity and skill needs not to be said to
  those who have enjoyed its predecessor. The dominant feeling, however,
  with which one closes the book is ‘the pity of it.’ ... The interest
  of the story is greatly enhanced by its profuse and unusually
  beautiful illustrations, every one of which has the rare merit of
  really illustrating the text.”

         =N Y Times= 22:115 Ap 1 ‘17 350w

  “The most interesting portions of her revelations tell of her
  sensations as a model and of her rather lurid experiences in
  studios. ... There is no pretense at style in the book and little
  humor, as the author has been chiefly occupied in presenting a human
  document.” F. M. Holly

         =Pub W= 90:2071 D 9 ‘16 430w


=MARKS, JEANNETTE AUGUSTUS.= Three Welsh plays. *$1 Little 812 17-7561

  The first of these plays, “The merry, merry cuckoo,” gives a tender
  and touching little picture of the sympathetic devotion between a
  married pair who have lived long years together. The remaining two,
  “The deacon’s hat” and “Welsh honeymoon,” are comedies. The first was
  published in the Dramatist, and in the Metropolitan, and the third in
  Smart Set. All have been played in various places thruout the country,
  in little theatres, by drama societies, etc. The author was awarded
  one of the first prizes of the Welsh national theatre in 1911.
  Application for permission to produce the plays should be made to the
  author, in care of the publishers.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:342 My ‘17

  “She will do surer work than this, but her dialogue has emotional
  shading and her effects are subtle.” Algernon Tassin

       + =Bookm= 46:349 N ‘17 90w

  “They have been acted a number of times and proved their validity on
  the stage.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p13 Ap 7 ‘17 180w

  “Such folk plays as these of Jeannette Marks give the touch of life
  the play world needs.” Frank Macdonald

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ap 8 ‘17 200w

  “Only a very blind critic could fail to see the excellent human
  quality of the plays contained in this volume, and only a very cold
  one could withhold admiration. Charm these plays have in abundance. It
  is a simple charm compounded of genuine feeling, childlike thinking,
  and quaint unaffected expression. The localism of the plays is novel
  and taking; the dialect is used with discretion, and is manifestly the
  speech of the heart. ... They are delightful to read and perhaps
  dramatic enough to hold an audience.”

       + =No Am= 205:630 Ap ‘17 750w

  “For sheer loveliness, humor, and the revealing of eternal wisdom
  through human nature, these plays easily surpass most of the one-act
  plays offered to the public.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:441 Ap ‘17 80w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 11 ‘17 400w


=MARRIOTT, JOHN ARTHUR RANSOME.= Eastern question; an historical study
in European diplomacy. *$5.50 (3c) Oxford 949.6 17-15969

  The author, who is a fellow of Worcester college, Oxford, states that
  he knows of no other book “identical in scope and purpose” with his
  own. He aims to give a “systematic and continuous account of the
  origin and development of the Eastern question.” “There is an
  introductory outline, then after a chapter on the geography of the
  Balkans and its influence on the politics of the Near East, the
  history of the Ottoman empire is narrated, giving much space to
  Napoleon and Greek independence, until the Crimean war. A very full
  chapter is devoted to this war. ... The last six chapters deal with
  contemporary history.” (Boston Transcript) The last chapter covers the
  years 1914-16. There are three appendices and nine maps, one of these
  being an ethnological map of the Balkan peninsula. A list of
  authorities is appended to each chapter. Some of the material has been
  utilized for articles recently contributed to various English
  magazines.

  “The few blemishes detract little from the great positive value of the
  book, which like much of the work of Englishmen succeeds remarkably
  well in preserving the true historical spirit in a time of warlike
  passions.” A. H. Lybyer

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:390 Ja ‘18 700w

  “The author has supplied a real need in English historical literature.
  It comes at a very opportune time. It is the work of a genuine
  scholar, learned and free from conscious bias.” F. W. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 8 ‘17 580w

       + =Cath World= 106:388 D ‘17 450w

  “One of the most illuminating chapters in this invaluable book is that
  entitled ‘Physics and politics,’ and future negotiators may take to
  heart the suggestions made at p. 33 that any settlement of Balkan
  affairs must originate from within.” Ernest Satow

 *     + =Eng Hist R= 32:435 Jl ‘17 1450w

  “A clear, scholarly, and accurate account of Balkan problems.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:345 S 16 ‘17 900w

  “It is an able and scholarly book, such as we should expect from so
  well known a member of the Oxford school of modern history as Mr
  Marriott, and it brings together in an orderly narrative many episodes
  that lose their significance in the ordinary European histories.”

       + =Spec= 118:678 Je 16 ‘17 220w

  “It is a very small book for so large a subject; and, though it
  probably contains as much as the ordinary reader is likely to digest,
  and that in a digestible form, it still leaves room for a work based
  on exhaustive research. Mr Marriott has earned our thanks by giving
  us, at the cost of no slight labour, a study which has long been
  needed and should certainly be widely read.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p267 Je 7 ‘17 2000w


=MARSH, RICHARD.= The beetle. *$1.50 (1c) Putnam 17-3888

  The story is told in the first person by four of the characters, a
  London clerk, a scientist, a young society woman, and a detective,
  each of whom in turn gives his own version. The mystery is well
  sustained thruout the four narratives. There is an element of hypnosis
  in it, and one of oriental magic, in addition to the element of sheer
  physical horror, the horror one instinctively feels of creeping
  things.

  “This is an absorbing narrative of fantastic horrors that should be
  read only by those of unimpaired nervous system and then preferably in
  broad daylight.”

         =Bellman= 22:279 Mr 10 ‘17 170w

  “Is it a purely critical affectation to feel that these books are not
  good because they lack reality, because they do not try to convey the
  impression of life, but are content to give an idea or to tell a
  story?... Is it a dry-as-dust pedantry that says the idea is good or
  the story is good, but that the book is not good from the critical
  standpoint? I think not,—naturally.” E: E. Hale

       — =Dial= 62:146 F 22 ‘17 700w

  “Mr Marsh does not know how to create character; his young chemist is
  especially unconvincing. The attempts at humor are clumsy indeed; Mr
  Marsh ought not to bother his head about providing comic relief. He
  has a powerful imagination and he knows how to tell a story, and these
  powers have enabled him to write a book guaranteed to give an hour’s
  excitement to every one healthy enough occasionally to enjoy horror.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:52 F 11 ‘17 200w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 25 ‘17 350w


=MARSHALL, ARCHIBALD.= Abington abbey. *$1.50 (1½c) Dodd 17-25863

  “‘Abington abbey’ details in 388 leisurely pages, how the family of
  George Grafton, banker, moves from his London home and settles in the
  newly purchased Abington abbey, a delightful old country place. ... Mr
  Grafton is a rich widower, with three beautiful daughters, and a son
  at school. These, with the ‘Dragon,’ the girls’ governess, constitute
  the family.” (N Y Times) “The story as a whole cannot be
  satisfactorily summarized, for, although its sequence is uninterrupted
  and its events hang together closely, its effects are almost wholly
  atmospheric.” (Boston Transcript)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:132 Ja ‘18

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:490 D ‘17 470w

  “It is an intimate revelation of the English temperament, the English
  tricks of thought, and the English way of living. ... Interwoven into
  the story is the personality of one of those clerical characters
  without whom no story of English life seems complete. ... And it is
  solely through the novelist’s account of this clergyman’s persistent
  interest in the affairs of his parishioners, of his determined
  intrusion into their home life, and of the quiet rebuffs that he met
  from the Graftons and others, that a humorous aspect is given to the
  novel.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 20 ‘17 1200w

         =Nation= 106:94 Ja 24 ‘18 600w

  “It is almost startling to come across a book, published in 1917,
  which, for all reflection it gives of the time in which it was
  written, might have come from the pen of Jane Austen or Anthony
  Trollope.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:412 O 21 ‘17 750w


=MARSHALL, ARCHIBALD.= Upsidonia. *$1.50 (3c) Dodd 17-26182

  Upsidonia is not pictured as a utopia; it is merely a country where
  everything usual to us is turned upside down. The poor are more highly
  respected than the rich, servants give orders to masters, prisons are
  places of comfort and luxurious ease. The story is told by a young
  Englishman who inadvertently wanders into this strange country. His
  first act is to toss sixpence to a beggar, who turns out to be a
  person of power and influence. Amazing complications follow.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:267 Mr ‘17

  “The ingenuity of all this is unquestionable, its satiric import is at
  times easily discernible, but it is very obviously not the sort of
  fiction with which Mr Marshall is most thoroughly at home.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 31 ‘17 1200w

  “No one who read that superb story ‘Watermeads,’ would suspect Mr
  Marshall of so commonplace a mind as is revealed in this thoroughly
  uninteresting story of a fictitious country. ... It is a barren tale
  of unpleasant people, without humor or originality or reason.”

       — =Dial= 62:106 F 8 ‘17 150w

  “A breezy, amusing story, cleverly told, although not always quite up
  to the possibilities of its theme.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:33 F 4 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Marshall’s latest book would make a delightful short story; or it
  might well serve as the foundation for a more complicated fantasy. But
  in forcing it to the fashion of a six-shilling novel Mr Marshall has
  doomed it to failure. ... There are, here and there in the book,
  touches of humour of a far finer kind especially in the solemn
  footnotes regarding the politics, customs, and literature of
  Upsidonia.”

     – + =Spec= 116:24 Ja 1 ‘16 220w


=MARSHALL, HENRIETTA ELIZABETH.=[2] This country of ours. il *$2.50 (1c)
Doran 973 17-31892

  This is an English writer’s story of the United States, told for young
  people. It follows “Our island story,” “A history of France” and other
  similar works by the author. The contents are arranged as follows:
  Stories of explorers and pioneers; Stories of Virginia; Stories of New
  England; Stories of the middle and southern colonies; Stories of the
  French in America; Stories of the struggle for liberty; Stories of the
  United States under the Constitution. This final section brings the
  story down to the present time. There are ten illustrations in color
  by A. C. Michael.

  “The book appears to be in the main historically accurate. It is
  noticeable that while the days of discovery and colonization receive
  very thorough treatment, the period following the Civil war is put
  into about forty pages—a condensation which gives the reader the
  impression of being out of proportion in a work of 612 pages.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 350w


=MARTIN, EDWARD SANDFORD.= Diary of a nation; the war and how we got
into it. *$1.50 (1½c) Doubleday 940.91 17-28643

  A brief record of the formation of American opinion for the student of
  the war who wishes to go back to the beginning of it and
  chronologically run thru the comment, from this side of the water,
  from August, 1914, to the time when the United States entered the
  conflict. The observations are selected from articles that appeared in
  Life and “are concerned with the war in Europe and with American
  politics as affected by it. By what processes of sympathy and
  indignation, thru what vicissitudes of diplomacy, delay and almost
  despair, we came after two years and a half to the breaking point with
  Germany, may be traced in a measure in the chapters.”

  “Full of shrewd common sense.” C. H. P. Thurston

       + =Bookm= 46:289 N ‘17 40w

       + =Cleveland= p2 Ja ‘18 40w

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 1 ‘17 230w

  “In calling attention to this inspiriting and aptly named volume we
  may recall what we said of the previous reprint of articles from New
  York Life. They stand for a type of editorial comment for which there
  is no parallel in British journalism—unconventional, colloquial, but
  trenchant and often intensely serious though appearing in what is
  nominally a comic paper.”

       + =Spec= 119:648 D 1 ‘17 1700w


=MARTIN, HELEN REIMENSNYDER (MRS FREDERIC C. MARTIN).= Those
Fitzenbergers. il *$1.35 (1½c) Doubleday 17-7923

  Little Liddy Fitzenberger had led a strangely isolated life. For some
  reason, unknown to her, no one in Virginsburg would associate with
  “those Fitzenbergers.” Her father, glum and morose, never speaks to
  her, and between her stepmother and herself there is open dislike. Her
  only friend is Elmer Wagenhorst, and Elmer insists that their meetings
  must be kept secret. The coming of the new minister and his wife to
  Virginsburg makes a big difference in the life of Liddy, and the time
  comes when she and Elmer find their positions reversed.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:356 My ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 2 ‘17 420w

  “We hardly blame the Pennsylvania Dutch for their dislike of Mrs
  Martin, for she pictures them as stupid, mean, unforgiving and
  immoral. ... The humor of the story is irresistible.”

         =Cath World= 105:267 My ‘17 120w

  “All these are very real people. There is, however, a trace of
  bitterness in the author’s characterization that the book would be
  better without. There must be more than a little humor in such a
  settlement as Virginsburg There always is. Mrs Martin too rarely shows
  her ability to catch its gleam.”

     + — =Dial= 62:314 Ap 5 ‘17 280w

  “The dialect is true to type, and the story holds the reader’s
  interest to the end.”

       + =Ind= 90:86 Ap 7 ‘17 100w

  “Each new novel by Mrs Martin shows distinct progress in fictional
  art, and this one excels most of her other books in the vitality of
  its plot, the variety of its characterization, and the briskness and
  humor with which its action moves. Mrs Martin is developing especially
  in her handling of conversation.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:93 Mr 18 ‘17 400w

  “The quaint talk is capitally rendered and the characterization is
  good; but the author in the latter part of the story yields to the
  temptation to make her now educated girl and boy talk too elegantly,
  while the plot becomes ridiculous.”

     + — =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 50w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:159 My ‘17 70w


=MARVIN, FRANCIS SYDNEY=, ed. Progress and history. *$3.75 Oxford 901
17-19164

  “‘Progress and history’ is a series of essays arranged and edited by
  F. S. Marvin and published in 1916 and is a sequel to ‘The unity of
  western civilization,’ published the year before. It was originally a
  set of lectures given in Birmingham. Where the former collection aimed
  at a statical view of the permanent unifying factors that have held
  western civilization together, the present one exhibits a dynamical
  view of these forces in growth. The idea of progress covers the
  conception of increase of knowledge, increase of power, and ‘increase
  in our appreciation of the humanity of others. The first two thoughts,
  harmonized and directed by the third, may be taken to cover the whole
  field, and this volume to be merely a commentary upon them.’” (Nation)
  “The contributors are Mr L. P. Jacks. Mr Clutton Brock, Mr R. R.
  Marett, F. Melian Stawell, the Rev. H. J. Carlyle, Baron F. von Hügel,
  Mr A. E. Zimmern, Professor J. A. Smith, and the editor.” (The Times
  [London] Lit Sup)

  “It must attract the attention of the educated public not only by the
  present actuality of its appeal, but by the good and often brilliant
  style of the writers, and generally by their known competence to deal
  with the several subjects that fall to the share of each.
  Unfortunately, as in most works written in indefinite combination, the
  unity of purpose becomes less clear in some parts of the book
  (generally speaking, perhaps, in this case after the fifth essay), and
  the result is a certain nebulosity, which is not inconsistent with
  suggestiveness.” Alice Gardner

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:302 Ap ‘17 950w

  “In ‘Moral progress,’ Dr L. P. Jacks abandons the historical mode of
  treatment. He gives a keen analysis of the notion of progress and of
  the flattering assumption that we are progressing morally. His essay
  is pure gold throughout, and no analysis can do it justice. But anyone
  who believes the things he sees daily in his newspapers should read it
  about once a week for his sanity’s sake.” F. C. S. Schiller

       + =Hibbert J= 15:511 Ap ‘17 2300w

       + =Int J Ethics= 28:138 O ‘17 310w

       + =Nation= 104:559 My 3 ‘17 220w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p638 D 28 ‘16 90w

  “Throughout the book there is a kindred aim, with excusable
  differences as to detail in certain problems. And this aim is
  idealistic, spiritual, with all possible stress laid upon the factor
  of betterment.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p3 Ja 4 ‘17 2300w


=MASEFIELD, JOHN.= Locked chest; and The sweeps of ninety-eight. *$1.25
Macmillan 822 16-21746

  Two of John Masefield’s early plays, written in 1905 and 1906. They
  were brought out in a limited edition in 1916 and are now issued as
  one of the volumes of the regular edition of Mr Masefield’s works.
  “The locked chest” is based on one of the Norse tales in the
  Laxdaelasaga. “The sweeps of ninety-eight” is a play of the Irish
  rebellion of 1798.

  “Written with a considerable amount of humor, and though little likely
  to add to Mr Masefield’s fame, the plays are thoroughly readable and
  capable of presentation.”

       + =Dial= 62:445 My 17 ‘17 180w

  “Both are one-act plays, vivid, dramatic, and with sharply drawn
  characters. ... ‘The sweeps of ninety-eight’ is of another Irish
  insurrection, and has Irish humor in its grim comedy. But ‘The locked
  chest’ is tense with emotion and tragedy, its simple action revealing
  long years of life, and supprest, unrecognized passions. Such a play
  stands forth like a Rodin figure, stripped of all unessentials.”

       + =Ind= 90:34 Ap 2 ‘17 100w

  “Mr Masefield’s reputation as dramatist will not be enhanced by these
  two one-act plays.”

       — =Nation= 105:296 S 13 ‘17 400w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:185 D ‘16

  “If ‘The sweeps of ninety-eight’ was signed Douglas Hyde it would be
  thought that this distinguished poet and Gaelic scholar had gained a
  new intensity of feeling and sense of dramatic construction. Surely Dr
  Hyde never wrote anything more Irish than this play of Mr
  Masefield’s.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:142 Ap 15 ‘17 520w

         =Pratt= p36 O ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 14:438 D ‘16

  “The little plays are pleasant reading. Incidentally they should
  appeal to amateurs in search of short, lively, actable pieces.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 16 ‘17 190w


=MASEFIELD, JOHN.= Lollingdon Downs, and other poems. *$1.25 Macmillan
821 17-10980

  “Mr Masefield’s new volume contains more than fifty sonnets, forming a
  long cycle, but broken by a few interludes, descriptive, allegorical,
  dramatic, narrative, or lyrical.” (Spec) “The volume also contains a
  long narrative poem, ‘The blacksmith,’ a strange piece of fantastic
  imagining, a brief little war play, ‘The frontier,’ and several other
  immaterial verses not without pictorial appeal.” (N Y Times)

         =Cleveland= p121 N ‘17 80w

  “This volume has a singular and intriguing unity, a unity broken up
  by interludes and by a succession of changes in the angle of
  approach, and in time and place. ... It is panoramic, rich in
  perspective—passing all the way from lyric and reflective sonnets to
  terse poetic dialogues and narrative lyric almost ugly in its
  bareness. It would be idle to pretend that Mr Masefield is a
  philosopher. He is not intellectual except in the sense that he is
  tortured by an intellectual issue; he is neither subtle nor
  profound. But he feels this issue intensely, and even more than
  usual he strikes music and beauty from it.” Conrad Aiken

     * + =Dial= 63:55 Jl 19 ‘17 1100w

  “In ‘Lollingdon downs’ we ask for food, and he shares with us—his
  hunger. A powerful dramatic sketch of a tremulous and tingling
  imperial ‘Frontier’ is the best performance in this brief and rather
  baffling work.” O. W. Firkins

     – + =Nation= 106:90 Ja 24 ‘18 170w

  “By this very reason of the depth of the author’s thinking, there is a
  possibility that the verses in ‘Lollingdon Downs’ may not have the
  wide reach of his other volumes. Mr Masefield’s work now is all
  intellect purged of the more human and earthly appeal; it addresses
  itself primarily to those who appreciate the metaphysical in its
  superabundant and alluring aspects.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:234 Je 17 ‘17 400w

  “His present volume is at once a withdrawal and an advance. ... There
  is no single piece here so good as his lines on his mother printed in
  the ‘Oxford book of English mystical verse.’ But he has largely laid
  aside those scenes of violence couched in defiantly bad language which
  seemed to be his favourite matter a while since.”

       + =Sat R= 123:412 My 5 ‘17 1100w

  “The subject-matter of the sonnets reminds us alternately of Lucretius
  and FitzGerald’s paraphrase of Omar Khayyám—though the treatment lacks
  the composure of the one or the serenity of the other—and we cannot
  resist the conclusion that the difficulties of the task have been
  increased by the form adopted.”

         =Spec= 118:614 Je 2 ‘17 500w


=MASEFIELD, JOHN.= Lost endeavour. *$1.50 (2c) Macmillan A17-398

  An adventure story of the seventeenth century. Charles Harding, a
  school boy walking home from Deptford with one of the masters, a
  Spaniard known as “Little Theo,” is waylaid and kidnapped and put
  aboard a vessel bound for Virginia where he is to be sold into
  slavery. His companion meets a like fate but for a time their ways are
  separate. One goes to a life of hardship in Virginia, one to romantic
  and desperate adventure in the West Indies. When the two meet again
  they unite in an effort to establish a kingdom on one of the islands.
  This is the “lost endeavour” of the title, but it is no less a
  thrilling adventure for all that. The English edition of this book was
  published by Nelson in 1910.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:356 My ‘17

  “The reader who could not warm to ‘Captain Margaret’ or to Masefield’s
  other experiments (too clearly experiments) in prose romance may find
  something more spontaneous and genuine here.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:312 My ‘17 450w

  “John Masefield’s ‘Lost endeavour’ as a swashbuckling yarn is too
  poetic, too literary, for adolescents, and too lacking in all
  consideration that such a fact as woman’s existence might sometime
  conceivably enter into even the minds of pirates, for adults. Also,
  its Indians are too grotesque and its plot too plotless. But certain
  remarkable bits of characterization and certain flashes of pure poetry
  make it all as surely Masefield as any page of Kipling is surely
  Kipling.”

     – + =Ind= 91:189 Ag 4 ‘17 80w

  “Whatever advantage it may seek from costume and atmosphere is a minor
  affair; the narrative is well capable of standing on its own feet. ...
  The tale lacks the sort of ending to satisfy a boy’s heart—the
  Treasure Island ending; but whatever it loses thereby as a boy’s book
  it gains as a man’s book. It is very much that.”

       + =Nation= 104:460 Ap 19 ‘17 350w

  “To have endued, as Mr Masefield has done, the threadbare romance of
  Aztec ruins and Indian magic with true romantic bigness and
  persuasiveness is a considerable triumph of the imagination. The chief
  quality of the thing—apart from its poetic realism as a sea story—is
  its extraordinary blending of the dreamlike with the actual. ... If
  this tale fails wholly to satisfy, its failure will not be due to any
  lack of power or artistry on Mr Masefield’s part, but to the reader’s
  feeling that a fictional power that is perhaps capable of producing
  results like those which Joseph Conrad achieves has been spent upon a
  rather flimsy theme.”

       + =No Am= 205:629 Ap ‘17 630w

  “Masefield’s description of the old ship navigated by the pirates has
  the same vivid lyrical quality as his amazing description of a vessel
  in ‘Captain Margaret.’”

       + =R of Rs= 55:664 Je ‘17 110w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 280w


=MASEFIELD, JOHN.=[2] Old front line. il *$1 (4c) Macmillan 940.91
17-27866

  A description of “the old front line as it was when the battle of the
  Somme began.” It is written for days when the marks of the battlefield
  are gone, when “Centre Way, Peel Trench, Munster Alley, and these
  other paths to glory will be deep under the corn, and gleaners will
  sing at Dead Mule Corner.” The town of Albert is taken as the central
  point of reckoning distances. From Albert four roads lead to the
  battlefield of the Somme—one to Auchonvillers and Hébuterne, one to
  Authuille and Hamel, another to Pozières and a fourth to Fricourt and
  Maricourt. Mr Masefield locates the defenses of both the enemy and the
  Allies, going into details of boundaries, topography, places of
  greatest weakness and strength. To relieve the account of possible
  monotony there are poetic allusions to natural loveliness and dramatic
  references to the terror of the happenings along the Somme.

  “A vivid piece of descriptive writing. It has the charm of a veteran’s
  reminiscence wherein the setting is hallowed by the action.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:161 F ‘18

  “We could wish that Mr Masefield would visit the other scenes of
  momentous conflicts, and furnish the topographical data indispensable
  to a proper understanding of the military events.”

       + =Ath= p51 Ja ‘18 50w

  “Nothing less than the endowment of poetic sensibility and the gift of
  a flexible style would have sufficed to make his narrative other than
  monotonous. But its interest is keen and continuous.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:581 D 30 ‘17 750w

  “More than any other writer, Mr Masefield has given us the feeling of
  the curious blind world of the trench fighter.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:215 F ‘18 170w

  “With its well-chosen photographs and trench map, this admirable
  little book will be of permanent value.”

       + =Spec= 119:770 D 29 ‘17 120w

  “His book, it need hardly be said, is not an ordinary guide. Its
  design is to be useful, and there are, indeed, signs of the task: a
  certain forced quietness and contraction of the style, broken by
  outbreaks and pulsations of language as a duty is passed: business
  first, and then Dalilah. We could not miss these excursions, for
  Dalilah is beautiful though a temptress; but sometimes we remember
  that she was not true.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p3 Ja 3 ‘18 1200w


=MASEFIELD, JOHN.= Poems. *$1.60 Macmillan 821 A17-1381

  The eighteen poems in this collection, which is published with the
  consent of Mr Masefield, were selected by Henry Seidel Canby,
  Frederick Erastus Pierce, and Willard Higley Durham, of the English
  department of the Sheffield scientific school, Yale university. The
  copyrights run from 1911 to 1916. Contents: A consecration; The
  everlasting mercy; Dauber; Biography; Cargoes; Sea fever; Spanish
  waters; An old song re-sung; The west wind; On Malvern hill;
  Fragments; Tewkesbury road; Sonnets; August, 1914.

  “‘Dauber,’ ‘Biography,’ ‘Cargoes,’ ‘Fragments,’ ‘Tewkesbury road,’
  ‘Spanish waters,’ ‘Sea fever,’ ‘The west wind’ and ‘An old song
  re-sung’ appeared in ‘Story of a round house’ (Booklist 9:330 Ap ‘13),
  ‘Consecration’ and ‘On Malvern hill’ appeared in ‘Salt water ballads’
  (Booklist 10:314 Ap ‘14), ‘The everlasting mercy’ was published
  separately in 1912 by Macmillan at $1.25. All but one of the sonnets
  appeared in ‘Good Friday’ (Booklist 12:373 My ‘16).”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:460 Jl ‘17

  “From the wild, lawless, vulgar, often carelessly written narrative
  telling of the fight between Billy Myers and Saul Kane, to the last
  poem in the book, the elegiac stanzas of which, hinting at the changes
  brought about by the great war, are cast in the quiet dignity and
  mellifluous flow of Gray’s ‘Elegy,’ there is an immense advance in
  technique.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 12 ‘18 360w

         =Ind= 92:62 O 6 ‘17 140w

  “The ease of the procreation of books in our shifty era is illustrated
  in the selection from Mr Masefield’s poems. Apart from this useful
  glossary [a glossary of sea-terms], a clever student in an industrious
  afternoon, if he knew Masefield, could virtually have compiled this
  volume which has absorbed the convergent energies of three Ph.D.’s.”
  O. W. Firkins

       — =Nation= 105:597 N 29 ‘17 110w


=MASON, ALFRED EDWARD WOODLEY.= Four corners of the world. *$1.50 (2c)
Scribner 17-25588

  This is a collection of twelve stories and one play, which have been
  copyrighted from 1909 to 1917. The play, “Under Bignor hill,” deals
  with the Roman occupation of England. Two stories, “One of them” and
  “Peiffer,” deal with the European war. Most of the others deal with
  murder, ghosts or suicide. “The crystal trench” tells how Mark
  Frobisher’s body was lost in a crevasse and how his wife saw the
  glacier yield it up after twenty-four years.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:133 Ja ‘18

  “They are very enjoyable, these stories; and if writers like Conrad,
  Thomas Burke, and H. G. Dwight had not projected into the short story
  a quality that gives it vitality and endurance, we should perhaps be
  fully content with the temporary satisfaction to be got from ‘The four
  corners.’ According to the standard created by these writers, Mr
  Mason’s work is flat. According to the standard of the average, it is
  most excellently good.”

     + — =Dial= 64:117 Ja 31 ‘18 190w

  “England has no more ingenious or versatile tale-maker than the author
  of ‘The four corners of the world.’ We do not imply that Mr Mason’s
  work is feebly imitative, but it is derivative and representative and,
  rarely, individual, rather than ever really original. There are no
  dull or ill-written stories in this volume, and they should satisfy
  that very large constituency which responds to the short story as a
  clever contrivance.”

     + — =Nation= 105:694 D 20 ‘17 220w

  “All the stories are interesting and well written, even though no one
  of them is particularly remarkable.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:394 O 14 ‘17 650w

     + — =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 10w

  “Among the grim stories ‘North of the tropic of Capricorn’ is very
  successful; the tragedy is vivid because not too much is said. ...
  Among the longer stories ‘Green paint’ is a successful venture into
  the realms of an undefined South American republic, governed by the
  unscrupulous and plausible strong man.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p476 O 4 ‘17 550w


=MASON, CHARLES FIELD.= Complete handbook for the sanitary troops of the
U.S. army and navy, and national guard and naval militia. 4th ed rev il
*$4 Wood 355 17-5986

  “The fourth edition is stated to have been carefully revised and
  brought up-to-date, with considerable new material relating to nursing
  and pharmacy. Describes the organization of the sanitary troops in
  post and field, briefly outlines human anatomy and physiology, gives
  instruction in first aid and nursing, mess management and cooking,
  materia medica, pharmacy, post and camp sanitation, riding, packing
  and driving, minor surgery, and clerical work. Part 9, dealing with
  the army regulations and the Manual of the medical department, has
  been completely rewritten to agree with the latest editions of these
  documents.” (N Y P L New Tech Bks) The work was first published in
  1906 under the title “A complete handbook for the hospital corps.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p15 Ap ‘17 80w

         =St Louis= 15:328 S ‘17 10w


=MASON, WILLIAM PITT.= Water supply (considered principally from a
sanitary standpoint). 4th ed rewritten il *$3.75 Wiley 628.1 16-24713

  “For the present edition a large amount of the text has been entirely
  rewritten and suitable amount of new material added. The tables have
  been brought up to date and new photographs introduced. ... The
  chapter on Drinking water and disease has been strengthened by the
  addition of many pages devoted to typhoid fever. ... Newly developed
  methods of water purification, particularly processes aiming at
  disinfection, come in for consideration, as do certain newly found
  factors influencing natural purification in streams and stored waters.
  The use of chlorine ozone, ultra-violet light and copper sulphate
  receive attention. There is considerable discussion of various phases
  of the pollution of drinking water supplies and the care of
  watersheds.”—Science

         =A L A Bkl= 13:460 Jl ‘17

         =Engin N= 76:1181 D 21 ‘16 80w

       + =Engin Rec= 75:235 F 10 ‘17 150w

       + =Nation= 105:97 Jl 26 ‘17 800w

  “Although this can not be called an exhaustive treatment of the
  subject it is one of the most interesting and suggestive treatises on
  water supplies published since the old book of the same title by
  Professor William Ripley Nichols, of the Massachusetts Institute of
  technology.” G: C. Whipple

       + =Science= n s 45:240 Mr 9 ‘17 250w


=MASSEY, EDWARD.= Plots and playwrights. *$1 Little 812 17-23583

  This comedy was originally produced at the “47 workshop,” Harvard
  university, under the direction of Prof. George P. Baker. It was
  afterwards produced by the Washington Square players, at the Comedy
  theatre, New York city, in 1917. In the prologue, Caspar Gay, the
  “dollar dramatist,” looking for an inspiration for his new play, meets
  Joseph Hastings, writer of short stories, who undertakes to show him
  drama on every floor of an Eleventh street lodging house. The three
  scenes in part 1 give these three dramatic episodes. In part 2, Gay
  and Hastings meet again. Gay tells Hastings that he has only found
  material for drama, but that it is material which can be turned into
  “a big Broadway success.” Then follows a “burlesque of a crook play,
  in which the characters of the three episodes take the parts.”


=MATHEWS, BASIL JOSEPH.= Paul the dauntless, the course of a great
adventure. il *$2 Revell 220.9 17-58

  “This admirable story of the life of St Paul has for its basis an
  accurate presentation of all it is possible to know about the life of
  the great apostle. ... Taking as the skeleton of his story the scanty
  facts known of Paul’s life and journeyings, Mr Mathews himself
  followed in the footsteps of all his wanderings, studying the scenes,
  the people, the life, not only as they are at present but as history
  describes them to have been in the early years of the Christian
  era.”—N Y Times

  “Written in a spirited style and abounds in picturesque descriptions
  of scenery and thrilling adventure. A large number of illustrations in
  color as well as in black and white from drawings and photographs add
  interest to a very delightful and stimulating book.”

       + =Ind= 89:117 Ja 15 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:188 D ‘16

  “At once historically accurate and absorbingly interesting.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:36 F 4 ‘17 300w

  “Well worth reading. The author has covered much of the ground
  traversed by St Paul in his wonderful journeys, and has profited by
  the researches of Sir W. Ramsay and Principal George Adam Smith and
  other scholars, so that though his narrative is cast in a popular form
  with a good many imaginary conversations, it is solidly based on
  facts.”

       + =Spec= 117:738 D 9 ‘16 60w


=MATHEWS, MRS GERTRUDE (SINGLETON).= Treasure. il *$2 (4c) Holt 918
17-9241

  A story of gold hunting in Dutch Guiana. The author has set it down as
  nearly as possible in the words of the man whose adventures she
  relates. He is a mining engineer who confesses that his first interest
  is not in metals. It is his love for the primitive and the wild life
  of the bush that takes him into out-of-the-way places. In the
  adventures recorded in this book he left Paramaribo to go into the
  interior in search of a mythical lost mine. His pictures of the
  tropical forest and stories of his native companions, together with
  the revelation of the attractive personality of the narrator, make it
  an unusual book.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:398 Je ‘17

  “The life of the ‘bush’ is well portrayed by a nature lover and it is
  a pity that a somewhat unique coinage of words mars the style.”

     + — =Ind= 91:188 Ag 4 ‘17 50w

  “It is exceedingly interesting on several counts. It is an out-and-out
  story of a search for gold. It is full of curious happenings, strange
  places. Its few characters are delightfully alive. And the personality
  of the man himself, his love for beautiful things, and his power to
  make the bush live in his picture of it, are all unusual and vastly
  worth reading about.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:326 S 2 ‘17 600w


=MATHEWS, JOHN MABRY.= Principles of American state administration.
*$2.50 (1½c) Appleton 353.9 17-1515

  A book based in part on college courses in state administration given
  at Princeton university and the University of Illinois and in part on
  researches carried on for the Efficiency and economy commission of
  Illinois. The author says, “No attempt has been made to describe
  exhaustively all of the multifarious activities and functions of the
  American states. ... The aim has been rather to select for description
  those services and functions which appear most to deserve attention,
  either because of their intrinsic importance or because of their
  suitability for illustrating the general principles of state
  administration.” Part 1, the introduction, discusses general
  principles; part 2 is devoted to The organization of the
  administration, with discussions of the duties and powers of the
  governor and other state officers; part 3 takes up The functions of
  the administration, including taxation, public health administration,
  etc. A conclusion considers the reorganization of state
  administration.

         =Am Econ R= 7:419 Je ‘17 40w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:7 O ‘17

  “There is no single volume which brings together so much first-hand
  material concerning the structure and functions of the state executive
  departments. The facts are well-chosen and effectively presented. The
  treatment of the office of governor is especially detailed and
  judicious. The author necessarily treads frequently on controversial
  ground. His discussion of open questions is always suggestive, though
  it is not to be expected that the reader will accept all his
  conclusions.” A. N. Holcombe

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:346 My ‘17 630w

  “This admirable description of the machinery and activity of state
  administration is the first separate treatment of the subject which
  has appeared. It sets a high standard for later works in this
  field. ... The author’s conclusions as to the modern tendencies in
  administration are sound and well reasoned. He offers also a goodly
  number of references for collateral reading and chooses these from
  works representing different standpoints. The reader is in this way
  given a broad view of state problems. There is a good concluding
  chapter on reorganization. ... The book deserves and should find a
  wide field of usefulness among the colleges and universities.” J. T.
  Young

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:238 My ‘17 450w

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 31 ‘17 360w

         =Cleveland= p54 Ap ‘17 130w

  “The book is written in clear, non-technical language and should be of
  use, not only to students of state government, but also to delegates
  who this year and next will be engaged in drawing up new
  constitutions.”

       + =Dial= 63:71 Jl 19 ‘17 250w

  “A noteworthy production.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:151 Ap 19 ‘17 180w

         =Ind= 90:252 My 5 ‘17 140w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:39 Mr ‘17 70w

       + =N Y Times= 22:127 Ap 8 ‘17 240w

         =Pratt= p9 Jl ‘17 30w

  “The entire work will be found helpful to legislative committees and
  other bodies interested in making the executive arms of our states
  more efficient.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:444 Ap ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:109 Ap ‘17 10w

  “One of the commendable features of the work is the simple and
  understandable style which the author uses in setting forth the
  organization of the executive branches.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 16 ‘17 320w


=MATHEWS, SHAILER.= Spiritual interpretation of history. *$1.50 Harvard
univ. press 904 16-25174

  “The William Belden Noble lectures in Harvard university for 1916 were
  delivered by Dean Shailer Mathews of the divinity school of the
  University of Chicago. His subject was ‘The spiritual interpretation
  of history.’ ... In the first lecture he considers views which more or
  less explicitly belittle or deny spiritual forces in history, and
  endeavors to show that they overlook or underestimate data for which a
  spiritual interpretation is demanded as a working hypothesis. In the
  remaining lectures up to the concluding one he attempts to show that a
  study not only of these data but of the historical process itself
  discovers a tendency which compels the recognition of spiritual
  forces, if not a spirit, in social development.”—Springf’d Republican

  “The final lecture on the Spiritual opportunity in a period of
  reconstruction, though practically helpful, is less compelling than
  could be wished, and betrays the benumbing effect of trying to combine
  science and religion in one discussion.”

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:124 O ‘17 500w

  “While the author surveys a large field in a small volume, the
  treatment is far from truncated. On the contrary, the style is lucid
  and attractive throughout; and the conclusions are based on an
  unusually rich and varied mastery of the field of human experience.
  The author shows fine justice and sanity in dealing with conflicting
  theories, each of which is given its due place in the synthesis of the
  whole.” J: E. Boodin

       + =Am J Theol= 21:624 O ‘17 1050w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:308 Ap ‘17

         =Bib World= 49:312 My ‘17 370w

  “Professor Mathews’s rational tendency is a hybrid between Tennyson’s
  purpose which runs through the ages, and Spencer’s impersonal Unknown,
  Bergsons’s ‘élan vital,’ Hegel’s ‘weltgeist,’ and Lotze’s ‘purpose.’
  The layman is merely confused by this metaphysical fog, while the
  theologian finds it too illusive to damn as heresy. But the man who is
  seeking an escape from the mechanistic conception of life and wishes
  to remain loyal to the scientific spirit of the time receives no
  genuine help from this doctrine.” V. T. Thayer

       — =Dial= 63:200 S 13 ‘17 750w

  “The well-balanced tone and insistence on practical efforts towards
  social ideals are commendable and ought to prove stimulating.” A. G.

     + — =Eng Hist R= 32:627 O ‘17 110w

  “A valuable contribution toward the working out of a worthy philosophy
  of American life.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Mr 28 ‘17 700w

  “These interesting and timely lectures strikingly exemplify the
  author’s remarkable facility for brilliant generalization.” G. T.

       + =Survey= 39:327 D 15 ‘17 280w


=MATHEWSON, CHRISTOPHER.= Second base Sloan. il *$1.35 (2c) Dodd
17-13076

  The scene of Mr Mathewson’s latest baseball story is a small town in
  Pennsylvania. Here Wayne Sloan, from Georgia, with his loyal friend,
  Junius Brutus Bartow Tasker, and his dog Sam, finds himself stranded.
  Wayne, who is now forced to make his way in the world, is handicapped
  by lack of training. Back home he had been brought up to be a
  gentleman. But he has pluck, and, much to the horror of his faithful
  colored friend, who has strict ideas as to social propriety, is ready
  to accept anything that offers. Finally June is established as
  bell-boy in a hotel and Wayne finds a position in a freight office.
  From playing ball with the men in the railroad yards, he advances to a
  place on a Y. M. C. A. team, and ultimately is offered an opening in
  professional baseball. The advisability of entering on this career is
  very carefully weighed before the step is taken.

         =Pratt= p51 O ‘17


=MATTHEWS, BRANDER.= These many years. *$3 (2½c) Scribner 17-25853

  In this volume, Brander Matthews, critic, playwright, and professor of
  dramatic literature in Columbia university, who says that he “was born
  contented as well as cheerful,” tells the story of his life of almost
  sixty-five years, setting down “only the pleasanter memories.” The
  first chapter, The point of view, gives us some interesting
  reflections on autobiography. Some other chapters are: New York in the
  early seventies; Parisian memories; Early London memories (two
  chapters); and Criticism and fiction. In the last-mentioned chapter,
  Prof. Matthews expounds the underlying principle of the art of
  book-reviewing. There is no index.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:128 Ja ‘18

  “I fear that the author of ‘These many years’ has succumbed
  occasionally to the fallacy of assuming that the general reader was
  prepared to contribute to the consideration of his pages an exercise
  of visual imagination which is not necessitated by the facts set down.
  But the book, as a whole, is highly satisfactory.” Clayton Hamilton

     + — =Bookm= 46:357 N ‘17 3000w

  “Unending delight is to be found in every line of this delightful
  autobiography.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 O 13 ‘17 1400w

       + =Cleveland= p4 Ja ‘18 80w

  “If the reader is envious of the author’s fortune in knowing so many
  men of distinction, at least he may be glad that the privilege fell to
  a man who could write so charmingly about them.”

       + =Ind= 93:42 Ja 5 ‘18 600w

  “‘These many years’ is every bit worth while reading.”

       + =Lit D= 55:42 D 1 ‘17 680w

  “Mr Matthews has never lost the enthusiasm, the impressionability, the
  precipitancy, or the occasional tenacity of youth. These
  characteristics give the stamp of individuality to his pages.” J. R.
  Towse

       + =Nation= 105:639 D 6 ‘17 1100w

  “Our autobiographer is first of all an American, then a New Yorker,
  then a cosmopolitan, but he is all these, and charmingly and
  convincingly, but least winningly a New Yorker. All the more because I
  say this, I must add that the chapters on New York literature and its
  members are of such unique value as to constitute an incomparable
  contribution to our literary history. It is such as no one could have
  written except one who was part of it and saw it all, and who with his
  greater love of literature still makes us realize that in New York it
  has always been not the superior but subordinate of journalism. That
  is saying it too rankly, and yet not unjustly.” W: D. Howells

       + =N Y Times= 22:405 O 21 ‘17 2450w

  Reviewed by Lyman Abbott

       + =Outlook= 117:640 D 19 ‘17 2200w

       + =R of Rs= 57:100 Ja ‘18 130w

  “But the work is a worthy memorial of a useful literary career. It is
  modest and unpretending, and is redolent of that graciousness which
  the literary world of New York has now seemingly lost.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 1150w

  “Good reading for the young aspirant in authorship, both for content
  and style.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:31 Ja ‘18 100w


=MAUPASSANT, HENRI RENÉ ALBERT GUY DE.= Second odd number; thirteen
tales. *$1.25 (3½c) Harper 17-13186

  Contents: Tony; Decorated; The colonel’s idea; The jewels; Fear; Two
  friends; Relics of the past; A question of diplomacy; Mademoiselle
  Perle; The madman; The home-coming; Passion; Grave-walkers. “The
  opening sketch of this volume, called ‘Tony,’ is quite noisome, and
  can amuse only the lovers of horseplay. ... ‘Two friends’ and ‘The
  colonel’s idea’ vividly record events and feelings of the German war
  of 1870, but they might have been the events and feelings of the
  German war of the present, they fit so well the facts now occurring.”
  (Introd.) Ten of the tales were translated by Charles Henry White and
  three by Virginia Watson. The introduction is by William Dean Howells.

  “The translation is spirited but too much in the United States idiom.”

     + — =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 80w

  “‘The second odd number’ is bound to cause some disappointment. ...
  Three or four of the stories now given—‘The jewels,’ ‘Grave-walkers,’
  ‘Passion,’ perhaps ‘Decorated’—may have been excluded from the earlier
  list because of the greater reluctance to deal frankly with sex
  matters, but most of them were probably omitted for other reasons as
  well. ... Perhaps the tale that in proportion and restraint comes
  nearest to ‘The necklace,’ ‘The coward,’ and ‘A piece of string’ is
  ‘Two friends.’”

     + — =Dial= 63:74 Jl 19 ‘17 330w

  “The present ‘Odd number,’ issued by the same publisher, has been made
  to match the original as to color and size and the design of its back.
  It has even an amiable and slightly perfunctory introduction by Mr
  Howells. But of the thirteen tales only two or three are worthy to be
  placed among that first thirteen. ‘Two friends,’ ‘Relics of the past,’
  and ‘Mademoiselle Perle’ are touched with human sympathy; the rest
  have the acrid flavor, the brutal or fleering tone of the unfortunate
  genius who, not soon enough for his own comfort, found his own way out
  of a despicable world.”

     + — =Nation= 104:632 My 24 ‘17 320w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:109 Jl ‘17 30w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 16 ‘17 130w


=MAVOR, JAMES.= Government telephones. *$1 Moffat 384 16-24693

  “In ‘Government telephones’ Prof. James Mavor of the University of
  Toronto gives a history and critical examination of the experience of
  Manitoba, Canada, with the public ownership and operation of the
  telephone system of the province. The early development of the service
  was promoted by the Bell company, beginning about thirty-five years
  ago. The government purchase was made in 1908 and Prof. Mavor contends
  that his thorough examination of the government’s work shows
  indubitably that the public ownership has been a practical
  failure.”—Ind

  “One cannot but wish that he had outlined something of a constructive
  program. Beyond indicating faith in regulation and private ownership,
  and condemning public ownership, in general terms, he does not point a
  way out. And the Manitoba which he pictures needs help.” H. B.
  Vanderblue

         =Am Econ R= 7:406 Je ‘17 730w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:377 Je ‘17

  “In view of the fact that he cites only the figures most favorable to
  his contention, and neglects to mention the others, it is hard to
  avoid the conclusion that he is more interested in making out his case
  against public ownership than in making known the whole truth. In
  short the book as a whole, regarded as an argument against public
  ownership, is unconvincing; but it is not without value as a record of
  certain mistakes which governmental telephone administrations, like
  private companies, would do well to avoid.” A. N. Holcombe

         =Am Pol Sci R= 11:357 My ‘17 820w

  “The study of this one experiment should prove enlightening to all who
  are personally or academically interested in the problems of state
  ownership.”

         =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 100w

         =Cleveland= p70 My ‘17 20w

  “Although notably one-sided, the general impression created by the
  book is that, measured by business standards, government telephones in
  Manitoba were a failure. Whether there were any compensating
  advantages, such as are alleged by many to result from operating a
  postal service at a loss, the method of the author is not of the sort
  to show.”

         =Engin News-Rec= 78:361 My 17 ‘17 280w

  “Strangely enough, the author holds that these defects cannot be
  eradicated. They are necessary accompaniments of government ownership!
  A surprising induction without confirmation.”

         =Ind= 90:297 My 12 ‘17 130w

  “While written in an admirable style and well arranged, the book fails
  fully to convince the analytical reader.” W. J. Donald

     + — =J Pol Econ= 25:954 N ‘17 490w

  “Much has been written concerning the experiment of Manitoba in the
  public ownership of telephones, but Prof. James Mavor’s Government
  telephones’ is the most searching and complete analysis of the
  results. The confidence of the reader in the findings would be greater
  if it were not evident from several passages that the author on
  general principles is completely opposed to government conduct of
  industries.”

     + — =Nation= 105:268 S 6 ‘17 120w

         =R of Rs= 55:220 F ‘17 80w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 28 ‘17 420w


=MAXWELL, CHARLES ROBERT.=[2] Observation of teaching. (Riverside
educational monographs) *70c (3c) Houghton 371 17-25130

  This manual, an outgrowth of the author’s work as supervisor of the
  training school of the Whitewater (Wis.) normal school, is designed
  “for the use of students in training, for the use of teachers who are
  desirous of analyzing the various elements in the teaching process,
  and for the use of other persons who are interested in the observation
  of teachers at work.” (Preface) Contents: The nature of the problem;
  The purpose of observation; The value of observation; The teacher; The
  pupils; The lesson procedure; The development lesson; The drill
  lesson; The review lesson; The lesson for appreciation; Questioning;
  Class management; The physical features of the schoolroom.

  “This book will be of most service to the prospective teachers in our
  normal schools and schools of education. It will be helpful to the
  supervisor in that it analyzes the qualities of teaching and the
  important aspects of school procedure that ought to be uppermost in
  the mind of the supervisor in his observation work.” H. O. Rugg

       + =El School J= 18:317 D ‘17 220w


=MAXWELL, CONSTANTIA.= Short history of Ireland. *80c (2c) Stokes 941.5

  A short history of Ireland dealing mainly with political events. The
  author’s purpose has been “to present a clear and impartial account of
  the chief features of Irish history,” and she has purposely left
  social and economic questions, and matters of mythology and literature
  out of her scheme. Contents: Early Ireland; The Norman invasion and
  settlement; The decline of English power and advance of the Celts; The
  Tudor conquest and the plantation of Ulster; The rebellion of 1641 and
  the Cromwellian settlement; The war of the revolution; Ireland under
  the old colonial system—the period of Protestant ascendancy; Ireland
  since the Union. The volume is provided with maps and plans. The
  author is lecturer in history in Trinity college, Dublin.

  “A convenient, not very sympathetic, introductory manual.”

     + — =Ind= 91:188 Ag 4 ‘17 60w

  “The author doubtless has marked opinions on the many problems which
  have faced Ireland since it became a homogeneous nation, but she keeps
  them religiously to herself. One of the great merits of this history
  of Ireland is its absolute fairmindedness.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:282 Jl 29 ‘17 500w

  “Miss Maxwell’s book is, however, little more than a syllabus, and in
  such a work it is difficult to indicate the full meaning of every
  event. Again, too, her matter-of-factness becomes slightly arid.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p11 Ja 27 ‘18 90w


=MAXWELL, WILLIAM MOREY.= If I were twenty-one; tips from a business
veteran. il *$1.25 (3½c) Lippincott 658 17-29211

  If you were twenty-one again and had life before you what would you
  do? This question is answered for the youth of the land, out of the
  experience, long and successful, of a man who sees the human and
  humorous side of things as well as the serious and problematic. There
  is moderation in his counsel. He avoids extremes. He advises a young
  man not to become a specialist. He believes that the future will
  demand all-around business men. If he were twenty-one again he would
  do a great deal of reading, would take counsel of men who have made a
  failure of life and would approach a career gradually, not taking a
  salaried position under twenty-five. Contents: If I started again;
  Finding your place in life; Self-esteem and self-confidence; Getting a
  job; Handling men; Employing men; The dishonesty of honest men; The
  amateur ad. writer; Writing a business letter; Do figures lie?

  “Because Mr Maxwell’s volume is amusing, that fact does not prevent it
  from containing many neat little truths.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 D 8 ‘17 420w

  “Almost every page gives amusing and instructive anecdotes from the
  author’s experience, and the style is quite remarkable for a man who
  does not profess an overfondness for the literature the professors say
  we must read if we would write well. One can quite honestly tell any
  young beginner in business to study this book, even if he has to pawn
  his coat to get it.” Frank Fitt

       + =Pub W= 92:1385 O 20 ‘17 400w

  “His book is full of suggestions, not in the shape of formal advice,
  of which a superabundance has already found its way into books
  designed for young and inexperienced business men, but in crisp,
  humorous paragraphs, the nub of which is likely to stick in the mind.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:221 F ‘18 160w


=MAY, MAX BENJAMIN.= Isaac Mayer Wise. il *$2 (2½c) Putnam 17-6906

  The subject of this biography is called the founder of American
  Judaism. When he came to America in 1846 he found the Jews scattered
  and unorganized. Their religious life was “an intolerable imitation of
  that which existed in the old ghettos of Europe.” It seemed to him
  that if Judaism was to survive in America “it would be necessary not
  only to Americanize the Jew, but also his Judaism.” He made this his
  life work. His biography has been written by his grandson, Max B. May,
  judge of the Court of common pleas, Hamilton county, Ohio. The author
  has allowed Dr Wise to speak for himself as much as possible, quoting
  from his writings in The Occident, The Israelite, and other papers.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:312 Ap ‘17

  “What is significant, what really stands out in the whole biography,
  is how definitively the reform movement in Judaism is a social and
  political movement and how little it is a genuinely religious
  movement.”

       + =Dial= 62:251 Mr 22 ‘17 250w

  “For American Hebrews, especially those who belong to the ‘Reformed’
  school, the biography of this distinguished leader by his grandson
  will have intense interest. ... For the Gentile, on the other hand,
  there is less to attract him, so absorbed is the interest in things
  Jewish. Moreover, the din of arms and clash of conflict, the
  reiteration of the word attack, are so incessant that he might rise
  from its perusal with prejudice either created or intensified”

         =Lit D= 54:917 Mr 31 ‘17 130w

  “Judge May has refrained, purposely, from discussing Dr Wise as
  theologian and writer. Yet, there was need for such a work as Judge
  May has written. It portrays chiefly the personal side of Dr Wise, his
  descent and ascent; it depicts the heroic struggle of his career. It
  is not written in a cold, critical tone, but with warmth, con amore;
  and in the case of a man who was above all a great personality, this,
  no doubt, is the best means of approach and appreciation. ... The
  attractive form of the book, with four portraits of Dr Wise, will add
  to the pleasure of reading it.” H. G. Enelow

       + =N Y Times= 21:565 D 24 ‘16 1950w

         =Pratt= p49 O ‘17 40w


=MAYO, KATHERINE.= Justice to all. il *$2.50 (2½ c) Putnam 353.9 17-6231

  The author has written an account of the Pennsylvania State police.
  This force is organized to promote state-wide order, to give sparsely
  settled country districts the same police protection as that provided
  in large cities. The author cites many instances of services of this
  kind, but by far the larger portion of her book is given to the
  activities of the State police in mining communities in time of labor
  disturbances. Her many quotations show that from its beginning the
  organization has had the support of the press and the opposition of
  organized labor. Theodore Roosevelt writes an introduction to the
  book.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:291 Ap ‘17

         =Ath= p465 S ‘17 800w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 27 ‘17 950w

       + =Ind= 90:555 Je 23 ‘17 120w

  “At present Pennsylvania alone has a State police (in her case the
  word constabulary is a misnomer); the story of its work, which has
  carried admiration wherever known, is here told with accuracy, detail,
  and color.”

       + =Nation= 104:187 F 15 ‘17 1350w

  “Not once in the book is the workers’ side of the case brought to
  light. Not once is the legal right of self-defence upheld. Not once is
  the inalienable right to protect one’s home recognized.” F: P. Burdick

         =N Y Call= p1 F 4 ‘17 2500w

  “Her account is so humanly interesting because she has written—and
  written well and eloquently—out of full knowledge.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:30 Ja 28 ‘17 700w

  “A narrative recording the exploits of disciplined efficiency is
  always fascinating. This one is particularly so; some of the chapters
  of the book are hero-stories and some are first-rate detective
  stories. The book is aimed at the general reader: it is interesting
  enough to be read purely for pleasure; and it should exert a
  considerable influence.”

       + =No Am= 205:472 Mr ‘17 400w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:215 Mr ‘17 70w

  “Numerous vivid accounts of engagements between the police and
  criminals are given. ... Other descriptions pertain to the chasing and
  capture of murderers, the breaking up of the vicious black-hand gangs
  which terrorized the mining sections, the ridding of the countryside
  from Sunday ‘keg parties’ that generally wound up in crime, the
  disruption of the anarchistic ‘I. W. W.s’ when that sect attempted to
  put out of existence the United mine workers’ union.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 9 ‘17 600w

         =The Times= [=London=] =Lit Sup= p400 Ag 23 ‘17 1000w


=MEAD, DANIEL WEBSTER.= Contracts, specifications and engineering
relations. il *$3 McGraw 620.03 16-20301

  “A complete outline of professional conduct in engineering relations
  from hunting a ‘job’ to drawing a contract is set forth in this work
  for the benefit of the college student. The book, however, has a much
  wider application than educating the engineering student, since it
  would seem that others besides undergraduates could pursue further the
  study of engineering contract preparation with benefit to themselves
  and their clients. ... The work is a good summary of technical
  literature on this subject to date, and contains an extensive
  bibliography, including many references to articles in current
  engineering journals.”—Engin News-Rec

  “Comprehensive text-book.”

       + =Cleveland= p110 S ‘17 20w

  “So far as the subject of contract writing is concerned, the book is
  to be preferred to any work published in recent years.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:364 My 17 ‘17 330w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:459 My ‘17 30w (Reprinted from Electric Railway
         Journal p674 Ap 7 ‘17)

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:521 Je ‘17 40w


=MEADE, ALWYNE.= Modern gasworks practice; with an introductory note by
Stanley H. Jones. il *$7.50 Van Nostrand 665.7 17-21116

  The author states that since no general work of reference covering
  modern gasworks practice exists, he has attempted to remedy the
  deficiency. He says, “It must be realized at the outset that so far as
  the principles and practice of modern gas-making are concerned no
  single individual can lay claim to omniscience. ... No pains have,
  however, been spared to develop the book essentially on the ideas of
  the practical man, whilst every precaution has been taken to avoid
  inaccuracies. ... Nearly every chapter has been submitted for
  suggestions to an expert in the particular branch with which it
  deals.” Among the subjects covered are: The planning and laying out of
  gasworks; Foundations, gasworks’ buildings, etc.; The horizontal
  retort bench; The control of horizontal retort settings; Vertical
  retorts and chamber ovens; Refractory materials; The mechanical
  handling of materials; Electrical plant in gas works; Gas-making and
  other coals. The author is lecturer in gas engineering and allied
  subjects to the London county council.


=MEANY, EDMOND STEPHEN=, ed. Mount Rainier, a record of exploration. il
*$2.50 (2½c) Macmillan 917.97 16-23519

  A collection of historical and scientific papers bearing on Mount
  Rainier, or, as some of the authors prefer, Mount Tacoma. Edmond S.
  Meany, the editor, is professor of history in the University of
  Washington and president of the Mountaineers. The first paper is a
  reprint of Captain George Vancouver’s account of his discovery of the
  mountain in 1792. Other papers of historical interest are: First
  approach to the mountain, 1833, by William Fraser Tolmie; First
  recorded trip through Naches pass, 1841, by Lieut. Robert E. Johnson;
  Tacoma and the Indian legend of Hamitchou, by Theodore Winthrop; First
  attempted ascent, 1857, by Lieut. A. V. Kautz; First successful
  ascent, 1870, by General Hazard Stevens. Later papers deal with the
  rocks, glaciers, flora, etc.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:22 O ‘17

  “With admirable judgment all these reports and records of exploration
  and scientific study have been arranged chronologically. ... These
  collected papers, though written strictly from a scientific point of
  view, include much of popular interest. Especially attractive are the
  stories of the various successful ascents of the mountains.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 12 ‘17 230w

       + =Dial= 62:447 My 17 ‘17 170w

       + =Lit D= 54:1710 Je 2 ‘17 200w

         =Nation= 105:18 Jl 5 ‘17 300w

  “When it is remembered that Mount Rainier national park is visited
  annually by increasing thousands of tourists, the far-reaching
  interest in such a book as this will be readily appreciated.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:196 My 20 ‘17 400w

  “Especially replete with information concerning the origin of place
  names in the Mount Rainier region.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:108 Jl ‘17 80w

  “A volume of great interest and value to every lover of adventure, or
  student of history. At the end of the book is a complete and very
  valuable list of the flora of Mt Rainier.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 29 ‘17 280w


=MEARS, MADGE.= Candid courtship. *$1.40 (1½c) Lane 17-23340

  “Joan Allison and Colin, her brother, who is a doctor, live in a
  boarding house. Another occupant, Stewart Austen, falls in love with
  Joan, and is refused when he proposes to marry her, on the ground of a
  bit of philandering he has committed in his youth, about which he
  tells her frankly. Colin, meanwhile, has succumbed to the friendliness
  of Val Carruthers, a tawdry, kindly light of love, married to a
  veterinary, who has been one of his patients. They decide to leave
  England together and, just as they are off, Colin leaves a note to
  this effect for his sister. Joan turns to Austen for help, they
  discover the couple’s destination, pursue them in a hired motor car,
  get lost in a fog and, after having been obliged to spend the night
  together in the car, they arrive early in the morning at a hotel—a
  most compromised pair. ... Austen offers to take all the blame for the
  episode, but Joan, whose viewpoint on the question has been reversed,
  refuses to do this and ends by proposing to him and being accepted.”—N
  Y Times

         =Ath= p415 Ag ‘17 80w

  “This is a very amusing little story and Miss Mears handles it for all
  the fun there is to be had. Her conversation is decidedly clever, her
  situations are funny, and her sense of comedy so good that she can
  make the most of her opportunities. Apparently she is well up on the
  thoughts and ideas of modern England—feminine England in
  particular—and the satire is as bright as it is good-natured.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:333 S 9 ‘17 500w

  “The characters of both Colin and Austen, in different ways, lack the
  vigour and the knowledge which would have given balance to this
  careful study of young womanhood; they are figures not in a world of
  men but in a world of women.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p334 Jl 12 ‘17 770w


“Mechanical World” pocket diary and year book for 1917. il 40c Norman,
Remington co. 621.08

  “In this, the thirtieth annual issue, several new features have been
  introduced. In particular, attention is directed to the section on
  Steam and the steam engine, which has been very largely
  re-written. ... New tables have been introduced giving dimensions of
  piston rings, governors, etc. ... A new section on The heat treatment
  of steel has been introduced. ... Many new illustrations have been
  introduced, while the book generally has been subjected to a thorough
  revision.” (Preface)

         =Pittsburgh= 22:342 Ap ‘17 50w

         =Power= 45:333 Mr 6 ‘17 80w


=MEEK, ALEXANDER.= Migrations of fish. il *$4.50 Longmans 597 F17-152

  “Mr Meek has written a scholarly and exhaustive work on the migration
  of fish. As the director of the well-known Dove marine laboratory at
  Cullercoats, he has a first-hand acquaintance with the subject.” (The
  Times [London] Lit Sup) “An introduction treats of tides, tidal and
  ocean currents, geological changes, nomenclature, and the literature
  of the general subject. Then follow thirty-two chapters dealing with
  various groups of fishes, from lampreys and sharks to toad-fish and
  anglers. Finally, we have twenty pages of general considerations and
  conclusions.” (Nation)

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:298 Ap ‘17

  “Handling in masterly fashion a subject of intense scientific interest
  and of vital commercial importance, Alexander Meek has spared no
  effort to elucidate every phase of the matter and to make the most of
  our present knowledge. His arrangement is clear and concise.”

       + =Nation= 104:246 Mr 1 ‘17 410w

  “Notwithstanding what we have criticised as faults of commission or
  omission in this substantial work, it is one which no one interested
  in fishery science or desirous of an up-to-date grasp of some of the
  phenomena underlying practical fishery questions can afford to
  overlook.”

       + =Nature= 99:81 Mr 29 ‘17 900w

  “The director of the Cullercoats marine laboratory has put together in
  this solid and valuable book all that is known as to the migrations
  and distribution of fish, taken class by class.”

       + =Spec= 118:276 Mr 3 ‘17 100w

  “A mine of information and will be of the greatest use to all who are
  engaged in researches into the marine food supply of the nation. It is
  well illustrated, well written, and, whilst doing justice to other
  workers, shows a competent degree of criticism. It also has what all
  good books should have—a thoroughly good index.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p570 N 30 ‘16 540w


=MEEKER, JAMES EDWARD.= Life and poetry of James Thomson (B. V.). il
*$1.75 Yale univ. press 17-7035

  “This little book will bring nothing new to students of Thomson’s
  work, but it may well prove a useful introduction for those not
  fortunate enough to have secured Salt’s biography of the poet. Mr
  Meeker disclaims any ambitious purpose; he has made a compendium,
  largely from the studies of Salt and Dobell, now become rare. He
  adopts a rigid chronological order in the discussion of the poems,
  which he uses as an interpretative commentary of the biography. He
  quotes generously from the poems, and has chosen characteristic
  extracts from the letters and the journal cited by Salt.”—Dial

  “Mr Meeker’s book is clearly and entertainingly written; and he did
  well in his account of such a life as Thomson’s to adopt the method,
  as he tells us, of ‘using his poems and his prose chronologically as a
  key to his inner development.’”

       + =Cath World= 106:253 N ‘17 750w

         =Cleveland= p120 N ‘17 110w

         =Dial= 62:446 My 17 ‘17 250w

  “Has the considerable merit of brevity and is written in a style
  perfectly clear though quite lacking in distinction. It brings out no
  new facts of the poet’s life, and, so far as mere biography goes, will
  not replace the works already published. Nor can it be said that the
  critical parts of Mr Meeker’s commentary rise much above the
  common-place.”

     + — =Nation= 104:373 Mr 29 ‘17 200w

  “Despite the crudities of the book, the central figure stands out
  strongly, a figure strangely kin to our own Poe, and England’s dead
  youth, Chatterton; and as such it is worth while.”

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Ap 29 ‘17 140w

         =Pratt= p49 O ‘17

  “Of value for its appeal to general interest.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Ap 5 ‘17 200w


=MEIGS, WILLIAM MONTGOMERY.= Life of John Caldwell Calhoun. 2v il *$10
(3½c) Neale 17-24427

  John C. Calhoun was born in 1782. He entered public life at an early
  age, coming into prominence in 1807 at the time of the “Leopard” and
  “Chesapeake” affair. He was a member of Congress during the War of
  1812, and a strong advocate of relentless prosecution of the war. He
  became a dominant figure in the storm and stress period that followed,
  standing out staunchly against abolition and for states rights. His
  life all but spans the period between the Revolution and the Civil
  war, and any account of it must be a contribution to national history
  as well as to biography. The author has based his work on original
  sources, having access to many new letters and papers. Volume 2
  contains the index.

  “May be accepted as the long-desired complete and impartial life of
  the great nullifier.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:139 F ‘18 650w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 800w

  “The powerful yet pathetic personality of Calhoun has never been so
  adequately portrayed as in the present biography. It is not only a
  history of the man, but one of his times.”

       + =Outlook= 117:476 N 21 ‘17 60w

  “Mr Meigs is a Pennsylvanian, born since Calhoun’s death and free from
  the prejudices of the long period during which controversies in which
  the South Carolinian was identified divided public opinion in this
  country. His work as a biographer has been scholarly and thorough to a
  degree, and as a record of the public career of the South’s greatest
  statesman, this volume leaves little to be desired.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:100 Ja ‘18 120w


=MEIKLE, WILMA.= Towards a sane feminism. *$1.25 (4c) McBride 396 (Eng
ed 17-21128)

  Miss Meikle’s argument is “that a dependent class must become
  economically influential before it can hope for political power”
  (Dial), therefore women should enter commerce and business on a large
  scale. Feminist leaders, and militant suffragists in particular, come
  in for much criticism, yet the author believes that “without the
  nomadic life of the suffragists a mentally healthy womanhood could
  hardly have been evolved from the mentally anæmic ‘lady’ of the last
  generation.” Political enfranchisement, however, is far less important
  than “the reformation of the domestic relations of women, of their
  relation to their husbands, and their relation to their children and
  their work.” Political freedom will follow upon economic freedom.
  “Economic independence is vitally necessary for women in order that
  the full beauty of home life may be secured.” Other factors that will
  help to secure this are early marriages, less rigid marriage laws, and
  state aid in bringing up children. The fundamental, ultimate problem
  is the problem of sex. It must be solved “by attempting to balance the
  fiercest claims of the body with the mind’s ultimately stronger hunger
  for romance.”

  “Written for England but applicable in many of its ideas to women
  anywhere. Thought provoking and to many, irritation-provoking.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:7 O ‘17

  “There is a frankness throughout the book which leaves no unpleasant
  taste in the mouth even after the chapter in which sex is discussed.”

       + =Ath= p37 Ja ‘17 70w

  “The author does not preach suffrage especially. Her attitude seems to
  be rather that of Lincoln toward abolition. If she can save women
  without getting a single vote she will do it. But she thinks that the
  vote will help her to gain her objects.” I. W. L.

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 18 ‘17 530w

  “Miss Meikle’s sharp and witty criticism is directed neither against
  men nor against the unawakened woman, but against feminist leaders and
  types and trends themselves. ... The family’s sacredness is undermined
  by her idea that ‘motherhood is one of the most casual of all
  relations.’ ... Her book is immensely capable and provocative. It is
  so novel in its scathing wit and its high good humor of irreverence
  that I can imagine it taken with some resentment by the more studious
  American feminists. Fortunately the discussion is of England, and
  there is admiring comment on women’s social and public achievements in
  the United States.” Randolph Bourne

       + =Dial= 63:103 Ag 16 ‘17 450w

  “The criticisms of the Pankhurst psychology, and the snobbish,
  pretentious fraud of the higher education for women at the older
  universities, are admirable and much to the point. The style is clear
  and terse, with a graphic pictorial quality, but Wilma Meikle should
  beware of facile antitheses and off-hand dogmatism. She often
  sacrifices accuracy to effect.” F. W. S. Browne

     + — =Int J Ethics= 27:406 Ap ‘17 150w

  “One wonders much where Miss Meikle obtained all of her remarkable
  assortment of misinformation about affairs in the United States.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:348 S 16 ‘17 180w

         =Pratt= p17 O ‘17 20w

  “Her plea for restricting the size of the family is distinctly
  unpatriotic in such times as these, and her sneers at religion and
  good breeding in a chapter on ‘The Break-up of the lady’ are in the
  worst possible taste.”

       — =Spec= 117:sup686 D 2 ‘16 80w


=MELISH, JOHN HOWARD.= Franklin Spencer Spalding, man and bishop. il
*$2.25 (2c) Macmillan 17-14393

  Franklin Spencer Spalding, Bishop of Utah, died in 1914. This story of
  his life is written by the rector of Holy Trinity church, Brooklyn.
  The biography begins with an account of Frank Spalding’s boyhood. He
  was eight years old when his father was appointed missionary bishop of
  Colorado, and his early years were thus spent in surroundings similar
  to those which were to be the scenes of his manhood labors. Subsequent
  chapters are: Frank Spalding, Princeton ‘87; The choice of a
  profession; Theological student; Jarvis Hall days; The parish house;
  Spiritual growth; His approach to the social problem; Called to be a
  bishop; The church in Utah; Salt Lake City; Mormonism; Begging east
  and west; The church in the mining camp; The church and socialism; Man
  among men; Manoach.

       + =Cleveland= p115 S ‘17 60w

  “In Mr Melish’s well told story of this earnest life we get no
  sectarianism and much discussion of the practical problems now before
  the church and before society, and much shrewd advice to the
  missionary.”

       + =Ind= 91:77 Jl 14 ‘17 70w

  “A helpful book for college men considering the question of a life
  calling, for ministers affected with excessive prudence and laymen who
  do not appreciate the work of a true minister. Socialists will find
  the chapter on the church and socialism almost as illuminating,
  perhaps, as the average churchman.” L: A. Walker

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 12 ‘17 400w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:744 N ‘17 40w

         =R of Rs= 56:439 O ‘17 40w

  “The story of his life and work which Mr Melish has put together will
  help to preserve his memory and will prove inspiring to all who labor
  in hard places. It is also worthy of consideration as an answer to the
  overworked argument that the Episcopal church, cares little for social
  righteousness and those who labor with their hands.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 27 ‘17 950w

  Reviewed by Graham Taylor

       + =Survey= 39:254 D 1 ‘17 380w


=MELVILLE, NORBERT JOHN.= Standard method of testing juvenile mentality
by the Binet-Simon scale; with the original questions, pictures and
drawings; a uniform procedure and analysis. il *$2 Lippincott 371.9
17-13701

  This standard method of testing juvenile mentality by the Binet-Simon
  scale is prepared by the director of the psychological laboratory,
  Philadelphia school of pedagogy, and is based on experiments conducted
  by the author in public schools in Philadelphia, and other cities.
  These investigations, which have involved the training of several
  hundred co-workers, have demonstrated the necessity and practicability
  of standardizing each detail of procedure. Some of the questions that
  are given attention for the first time are: “With what tests should
  the examiner begin? Which of two alternative questions should be first
  employed in a given case? Under what conditions may a test be
  repeated? By what precise standards shall we decide whether responses
  in such tests as the definitions should be credited at age six or age
  nine?” Part 1 is devoted to General procedure in gathering and
  analyzing the data; Part 2 to Uniform method of applying the
  Binet-Simon scale (Final revision by Binet and Simon, 1911). William
  Healy, of the Juvenile psychopathic institute of Chicago, writes an
  introduction for the work.

         =Ath= p518 O ‘17 150w

  “The standard method developed by the writer of this manual is well
  characterized as provisional.’ We should note, however, that at the
  same time it is the outcome of more detailed research and gives more
  adequate attention to details of mental testing than does any such
  manual which we have yet seen.”

       + =El School J= 17:689 My ‘17 300w

  “Part 2 provides, in form convenient for use, all the printed
  materials necessary for the tests. This is in itself a distinct
  service to Binet test-users.” M. R. Trabue

       + =J Philos= 14:530 S 13 ‘17 500w

  “It is essentially a guide to practice, and as such may be warmly
  recommended.”

       + =Nature= 100:103 O 11 ‘17 280w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:93 Je ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:540 Je ‘17

  “A very useful and practical work.” Alexander Johnson

       + =Survey= 39:260 D 1 ‘17 50w


=MENCKEN, HENRY LOUIS.= Book of prefaces. *$1.50 (3c) Knopf 810.4
17-28839

  The first two-thirds of this volume by the editor of the Smart Set
  discusses the work of Joseph Conrad, Theodore Dreiser, and James
  Huneker. The last third deals with Puritanism as a literary force.
  Here Mr Mencken discusses both the “Puritan impulse from within,”
  which “has been a dominating force in American life since the very
  beginning” and the “genesis and development” of the “Puritan authority
  from without”—the “organization of Puritanism upon a business and
  sporting basis.” Mr Mencken is out of sympathy with “this moral
  obsession,” as he calls it, which sets American literature “off
  sharply from all other literatures.”

  “They abound in clever phrases and quick turns of thought.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:87 D ‘17

  “Few have dared to suggest so clearly the exact ways in which the
  present-day Puritans have laid a numbing hand on art and the manner in
  which their work has been done.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 19 ‘17 1100w

       — =Nation= 105:593 N 29 ‘17 2350w

  “He has all the raw material of the good critic—moral freedom, a
  passion for ideas and for literary beauty, vigor and pungency of
  phrase, considerable reference and knowledge. Why have these
  intellectual qualities and possessions been worked up only so
  partially into the finished attitude of criticism?” Randolph Bourne

     – + =New Repub= 13:102 N 24 ‘17 1200w

  “Here are vital appreciations, here are pungent bits of writing that
  interpret in terms of the classic realism, romanticism, naturalism,
  and what not, without the heavy professorial pedanticism.” F. J. K.

       + =N Y Call= p14 N 25 ‘17 1750w

  “Mr Mencken is an intelligent man with a certain gift of phrase, and
  if he were content to be a critic, and not so often an apologist for
  the nasty, and if he only wrote in earnest, instead of being
  provocatively flippant and cynical, his mind might count in the
  critical councils of the hour. He writes entertainingly, but without
  special penetration, about Conrad. ... Mr Mencken does not merely rant
  against the Puritans. ... He does see that there was a moral elevation
  in Puritanism, though he apparently does not sympathize with a
  morality that subordinates the personality to a spiritual ideal—that,
  in other words, has the same aim as art. ... Pithy and nettling
  persiflage is the final judgment that one must pass on Mr Mencken’s
  book.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 21 ‘17 850w


=MENZIES, AMY CHARLOTTE (BEWICKE) (MRS STUART MENZIES).= Memories
discreet and indiscreet. il *$5 Dutton 17-30307

  “This is a book of reminiscences of the interesting people whom the
  author met in the course of a wandering outdoor career as the wife of
  an army officer in India, Egypt, and England. She tells many new
  stories about celebrities as widely separated as Cardinal Manning and
  Lord Cardigan, Parnell, Father Stanton, Melton Prior, and Fred
  Burnaby; and she draws an unconventional sketch of a side of Lord
  Kitchener’s character not generally presented to the public. She
  gives, also, some fresh details of the famous ride to Kandahar and the
  Majuba Hill disaster, but serious information is not her forte.”—Spec

  “An easy, intimate account of the life and achievements of those
  well-known to fame, told with a style and ease of manner that gratify
  our interest and curiosity.”

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 1 ‘17 190w

       + =R of Rs= 56:551 N ‘17 30w

  “In her lighter moods she is always entertaining; she avoids malicious
  scandal, and leaves on the reader’s mind the impression of a very
  attractive personality, sweet-tempered, broad-minded, and unselfish,
  more devoted to living than to literature.”

       + =Spec= 119:40 Jl 14 ‘17 170w

  “The writer is a plucky, versatile, travelled woman; an entertaining
  conversationalist who writes as she talks.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p258 My 31 ‘17 980w


=MEREDITH, CHRISTABEL M.= Educational bearings of modern psychology.
(Riverside educational monographs) *60c (2c) Houghton 370.1 17-715

  This work by an Englishwoman, is an application of some of the
  principles of modern psychology to elementary education. The aim of
  the book is “to give a brief account of some portions of recent
  psychological work which have had and are likely to have a special
  influence on education. Part 1 is concerned mainly with genetic
  psychology: instincts, the growth of habit, and the effect of
  environment and suggestion. ... Part 2 is concerned with some special
  studies in educational psychology and in particular with experimental
  work.” (Preface) Dr Henry Suzzallo, in his introduction says, “The
  compass of the work is small, but a fine discrimination in choice and
  organization has made brevity a virtue unaccompanied by its usual
  shortcomings.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:242 Mr ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p108 S ‘17 20w

  “Within her limits Mrs Meredith has done distinctly useful work,
  choosing her topics with discretion and treating them in a competent
  and serviceable way. ... The final chapter on adolescence contains
  wisdom for parents as well as for teachers.”

       + =Nature= 98:27 S 14 ‘16 200w

         =Pratt= p16 O ‘17 20w


=MERINGTON, MARGUERITE.= More fairy tale plays. il *$1.50 Duffield 812
17-22672

  A companion volume to “Fairy tale plays,” planned on the same lines.
  The author has chosen familiar fairy tales and made them into plays,
  introducing new characters as her plots demand. Contents: Puss in
  boots; The three bears; Hearts of gold, or, Lovely Mytlie; Hansel and
  Gretel. A fee is charged for the stage use of any of the plays.

  “They contain very little action and hardly a line of sincere
  dialogue; its lines being farfetched and facetious talk,—most of it
  (thank Heaven) well over the heads or under the feet of children.” J:
  Walcott

       — =Bookm= 46:494 D ‘17 120w

         =Ind= 92:444 D 1 ‘17 20w

  “Teachers and parents eager for plays to give to children will find
  this volume, by a seasoned playwright, of great help.”

       + =Lit D= 55:59 D 8 ‘17 60w

  “The book has nothing in common with its name. It is devoid of either
  imagination or play.” LaVergne Miller

       — =N Y Call= p14 Ja 12 ‘18 200w

  “The conversation, too, is in keeping and often witty, and the stage
  directions are definite enough to result in a satisfactory
  representation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 20 ‘17 70w


=MERTON, HOLMES WHITTIER (YARMO VEDRA, pseud.).= How to choose the right
vocation. *$1.50 Funk 174 17-14247

  A book which “aims to meet—so far as it is possible to do so without
  expert personal counseling—the urgent need of individual guidance in
  choice of vocation.” The author discusses in turn the dominant
  abilities—construction, intuition, reason, form, color, number,
  attention, etc. With the analysis of these dominant characteristics is
  included discussion of what he calls “essential” and “supporting,” as
  well as consideration of “deterrent” abilities. Following the
  discussion in each case are a group of “self measuring questions” and
  a list of the professions and trades which demand the characteristics
  under discussion. Several hundred professions, arts, commercial
  enterprises and trades are included in these lists. In conclusion
  there is a chapter on “The great vocation”—agriculture. Mr Merton is a
  vocational counselor in New York city and author of “Descriptive
  mentality.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 230w

  “Its value is lessened by the lack of an index.”

     + — =Cleveland= p124 N ‘17 50w

  “A curious, entertaining and doubtless useful compilation.”

       + =Ind= 92:193 O 27 ‘17 40w

  “It is an educational volume of the self-educational kind, sure to
  profit one if studied in a receptive mood.”

       + =Lit D= 55:43 N 3 ‘17 290w

       + =Lit D= 56:36 Ja 26 ‘18 200w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:125 Ag ‘17

  “This overambitious attempt defeats its end by being so cumbersome
  that it is not convincing. It is doubtful whether any but those so
  intelligent as to need little guidance could guide themselves by this
  elaborate system. The book is worthy of study by vocational counselors
  for the suggestiveness of the questions and the descriptions of
  characteristics.” F. M. Leavitt and Margaret Taylor

     – + =School R= 26:61 Ja ‘18 150w


=MERWIN, HENRY CHILDS.= Horse; his breeding, care, and treatment in
health and disease. il *$1.50 (2c) McClurg 636.1 17-14155

  A book on the breeding and care of horses. Earlier books by the author
  include “Dogs and men,” published in 1910, and “Road, track and
  stable,” published in 1912. Part 1 of this book treats of The
  breeding, training, and care of horses, part 2 of Diseases and
  injuries. A bibliography gives references to other books on the
  subject. The volume is well illustrated and is indexed.


=MERWIN, SAMUEL.= Temperamental Henry. il *$1.50 Bobbs 17-24396

  “‘Temperamental Henry,’ also sometimes known among his mates as ‘Henry
  the Ninth,’ is an eighteen-year-old youth who lives in a small
  Illinois town not far from Chicago. He holds the centre of the stage,
  but around him are grouped his ‘crowd’ of boys and girls, all of about
  his own age, while more or less importantly across the scene now and
  then crosses one of their elders. The author has turned his attention
  especially to Henry, and him has dissected and discussed and pictured,
  up and down, in and out, through all his waverings, irresponsible,
  sudden moods and absurdities, comedies and tragedies. It is a
  remarkable—and amusing—portrayal of the age of adolescence, comparable
  with, or, rather, a sort of chronological sequel to Booth Tarkington’s
  ‘Seventeen,’ with which it will, inevitably, be compared.”—N Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:61 N ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:341 N ‘17 60w

  “Henry strikes the reader as remarkably true. It is because he is so
  undoubtedly true to that temperamentality of youth, that the book
  possesses a meaning far in excess of the light story which it tells.
  The ability to bestow so complete a sense of reality upon a character
  must be acknowledged as fine art.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 N 3 ‘17 920w

  “Mr Merwin takes his eighteen-year-old hero rather seriously, and
  makes one feel the near-tragedy as well as the humor, the romance as
  well as the banality, of that distressing period of emotional chaos
  termed adolescence.”

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 60w

  “Both funny and pathetic.”

       + =Dial= 63:464 N 8 ‘17 80w

  “Frankly, while we acknowledge that ‘boys will be boys’ and we love
  their foolish boyishness, we find ‘Henry the ninth’ a terrible strain
  on our credulity and are glad that our nineteen-year-old friends are
  not such gullible idiots.”

       — =Lit D= 55:38 O 27 ‘17 230w

  “The readers of the story, and they are sure to be many, will be glad
  to know that Mr Merwin purposes letting them follow Henry’s career as
  he grows older and becomes something more than an unlicked cub.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:366 S 30 ‘17 550w

  “We would hardly say that Merwin and Barrie were in the same class as
  writers, much as we like the American’s humor and realism. But they
  both, surely, have created and given the breath of life to one
  adolescent, temperamental boy. Booth Tarkington’s ‘Seventeen’ was
  funny. And it had its moments of extremely clear insight into a boy’s
  mind. But ‘Temperamental Henry’ goes much deeper, as did ‘Sentimental
  Tommy.’ ... Probably the most human bit about the whole book is the
  dedication. ‘To Sam and John,’ it reads, ‘with sympathy.’ That is the
  whole point. ... The author understands.” E. P. Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 92:801 S 15 ‘17 450w

  “A most entertaining tale.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 500w


=MERWIN, SAMUEL, and others.= Sturdy oak; theme by Mary Austin; the
chapters collected and (very cautiously) ed. by Elizabeth Jordan. il
*$1.40 (2½c) Holt 17-31033

  A composite volume from the pen of fourteen prominent writers who,
  good suffragists that they are, donated their services to the cause.
  It is a lively story of one George Remington who, as the action
  begins, has just brought his bride to the old Remington place, and is
  launching upon a political campaign for the post of district attorney.
  One of the big issues upon which he must express an opinion is that of
  woman suffrage. He writes a flowery article for his town’s leading
  paper, containing the usual anti home-is-the-sanctuary,
  man-the-protector, woman-the-ministering-angel line of objection to
  enfranchising women. The suffragists fully aroused, organize and swing
  into one of those efficient campaigns for which they are noted. Their
  aim is not to defeat Remington so much as to teach him a necessary
  lesson. When two unprotected female relatives of the clinging-vine
  type swoop down upon him, when his adorable wife becomes a suffragist,
  when he is shown the wretched housing conditions of the factory
  district owned by comfortable, flabby-brained women who won’t shoulder
  responsibilities—the scales fall from his eyes. His victory is
  complete.

  “A good story and a boost for woman suffrage.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:132 Ja ‘18

  “Though it is obviously a tour de force, it turns out to be no worse,
  if no better, than dozens of novels set adrift by the publishers each
  season. As a presentation of the ‘woman question,’ of which suffrage
  of course is only a phase, ‘The sturdy oak’ is absurd, even though it
  advances all the stock pros and demolishes all the stock cons. It is
  made to seem the more absurd by comparison with the new edition of ‘A
  woman of genius,’ by Mary Austin, the writer of chapter 13 of ‘The
  sturdy oak’ and the builder of its plot. Sound advice to the reading
  public would be: Buy ‘The sturdy oak’ for the sake of the cause and
  read ‘A woman of genius’ to find out what it is all about.”

     – + =Dial= 64:117 Ja 31 ‘18 550w

  “It isn’t as good, we believe, as any one of them could have done
  alone. A good suffrage tract, a not bad story, and an interesting
  study in comparative literary workmanship.”

     + — =Ind= 92:385 N 24 ‘17 160w

  “In the present instance all seriousness is there, all determination
  and intent to place the suffrage question on its broadly human instead
  of the usual limited sex basis. And it is done with deftness, with a
  few fine, old thrills, with delightful irony and some well-directed
  straight arm jolts.” F. W.

       + =N Y Call= p15 N 18 ‘17 500w

  “An exceedingly interesting story, and very amusing to boot. It is
  very far from being dogmatic. It is very clever indeed. And from
  beginning to end it is irresistibly readable. There are weaknesses and
  extravagances in the book. But the novel as a whole is excellent.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:458 N 11 ‘17 1050w

  “Each chapter is the contribution of one author, but the theme is
  carried along so smoothly that the chapters link together without a
  hitch or suggestion of friction. The authors, too, subordinate to the
  central idea—propagandism, if you choose,—the mannerisms peculiar to
  their own individual styles.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Ja 20 ‘18 540w


=METCALFE, AGNES EDITH.= Woman’s effort: a chronicle of British women’s
fifty years’ struggle for citizenship (1865-1914); with an introd. by
Laurence Housman. il *$1.25 Longmans 324.3 (Eng ed 17-24667)

  Miss Metcalfe has written a detailed account of the militant movement
  for the political emancipation of women in Great Britain and Ireland
  from 1906 to 1914, with a brief summary of preceding events, to which
  she devotes only twenty-six pages of her book. “For much of the
  history of the first thirty-five years or so of the Women’s suffrage
  movement the author acknowledges indebtedness to Miss Helen
  Blackburn’s book, ‘Women’s suffrage’ (1902). ... Interesting details
  are given of the later and most advanced manifestations of
  ‘militancy’; and the four trials for conspiracy which occurred between
  1912 and 1914 are briefly described. The frontispiece and six other
  illustrations are reproductions of cartoons from Punch.” (Ath) There
  is a three-page Suffrage directory confined to British societies.

  “The statement is fair and dispassionate, though the writer’s sympathy
  with the agitation is not concealed.”

         =Ath= p357 Jl ‘17 200w

  “Miss Metcalfe, as has been said, gives most of her space and emphasis
  to the ‘militant’ suffragists; she passes over, with very inadequate
  comment, the more statesmanlike work of the non-militant societies;
  there are many serious omissions, amounting almost to
  misrepresentation, on this side of the question. These omissions
  considerably detract from the value of what is otherwise a sound
  historical record of one of the least creditable phases by which
  ‘Freedom slowly broadens down’ in the good old Victorian fashion.”

     + — =Ath= p36 Ja ‘18 660w

  “The author maintains a detached and judicial point of view and
  nowhere betrays her own convictions or sympathies.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:348 S 16 ‘17 120w

  “Miss Metcalfe can hardly be called a dispassionate chronicler, but
  she may fairly claim to have compiled a narrative of what actually
  occurred.”

         =Spec= 119:64 Jl 21 ‘17 90w

  “The whole book is a typical illustration of suffragette
  psychology. ... Partisanship deprives the work of most of its value.”

 *     – =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p389 Ag 16 ‘17 2150w


=MICKIEWICZ, ADAM.= Pan Tadeusz; or, The last foray in Lithuania; tr.
from the Polish by G: Rapall Noyes. *$2.25 Dutton 891.85

  “This is the second translation of Mickiewicz’s best-known poem that
  has appeared in English, Miss Briggs having published a rendering in
  1885. The poet wrote ‘Pan Tadeusz’ while he was exiled from his native
  country and living in Paris, where it was published in 1834.” (Ath)
  “‘Pan Tadeusz,’ the national poem of Poland, describes life in
  Lithuania at the beginning of the nineteenth century. It seems to have
  budded in the poet’s mind as a rustic idyll—the love of Thaddeus
  Soplica for Zosia Horeszko, daughter of an ancient house wronged by
  his own. ... As the poem took shape, however, the young lover and his
  private fortunes became dwarfed by the larger interests represented by
  his father, Jacek Soplica. Jacek is one of those full-blooded romantic
  figures whom writers of the period loved to create. In a fit of
  jealousy he had murdered the chief of the Horeszkos ... taking sides
  for this purpose with the Muscovites, the national enemy; and this
  misdoing of his, together with his remorse, supplies the framework of
  the poem. With the object of atoning for his crime, Jacek strives both
  to unite the Polish Montagues and Capulets in the persons of the young
  lovers and to free Poland from Muscovite oppression.” (The Times
  [London] Lit Sup)

  “The lyrical movement in these passages is what chiefly reminds us
  that we are reading the translation of a poem, and not a regular prose
  romance. There is also an epical breadth about the narrative, and the
  fighting is described with Homeric realism.”

       + =Ath= p526 O ‘17 280w

  “The two predominant characteristics of the poem are an intensity of
  feeling which sometimes lapses to sentimentality and again rises to
  lyric fervor, and a wonderful truth not only to the general impression
  but also to concrete facts of his experience.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 8 ‘17 500w

  “Mr Noyes has translated the poem into English prose, perhaps gaining
  for it thereby something in story interest while, except in form, he
  has lost little of its poetic values. His work has been done with
  admirable care and spirit and with signal success. The pictures of
  life reproduce with appealing fidelity the simple, tenderly portrayed
  details of the original, and also its intense feeling and quiet
  humor.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:11 Ja 13 ‘18 510w

  “The various elements are skilfully combined, but it is less as a
  story that the poem impresses the reader than as a series of richly
  coloured pictures of a vanished past.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p460 S 27 ‘17 950w


=MIDDLETON, EDGAR C.=[2] Way of the air. *$1 (2½c) Stokes 623.7 17-22331

  “The idea of this little book is to give as clear and graphic a
  description of modern aviation as circumstances will permit. ... The
  writer’s chief endeavor in the opening chapters has been to help the
  young man who wishes to adopt ‘flying’ as a profession. Part 2 of the
  book is composed of a collection of incidents taken from the diary of
  an air pilot on active service somewhere in the north of France. They
  are given in their original form.” (Author’s note) Part of the
  material of the book is reprinted from the Daily Mail, Daily Express,
  and other English periodicals.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 16 ‘18 270w

       + =Ind= 92:342 N 17 ‘17 90w


=MIESSNER, BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.= Radiodynamics. il *$2 Van Nostrand 621.3
16-20751

  “This is intended to provide a historical and technical description of
  the development of wirelessly controlled mechanisms, but is directed
  toward the military and non-technical scientific reader as well as
  toward the engineer. The book opens with a discussion of ‘wireless’
  telegraphy. ... The central portion of the book gives some descriptive
  matter relating to various early attempts at wireless control of
  boats, airships and torpedoes, and the author then takes up in some
  detail the work of J. H. Hammond, jr. (whose assistant he was) in
  improving the military value of such devices. Various problems of
  interference prevention, relay operation, etc., are discussed and the
  author’s suggested solutions described.”—Elec World

         =A L A Bkl= 14:117 Ja ‘18

  “Non-technical work describing much suggestive research. Not entirely
  reliable on the historical side.”

     + — =Cleveland= p109 S ‘17 13w

         =Electrical News= N 1 ‘16

  “Some ingenious proposals are brought forward, though the treatment is
  largely amateurish from the radio-engineering standpoint. ... In spite
  of its evident weaknesses, however, the reader is likely to find some
  information of interest in the descriptive chapters.”

         =Elec World= 69:281 F 10 ‘17 200w

  “B. F. Miessner, expert radio aide of the United States navy, has
  presented the subject clearly and concisely, assuming a considerable
  knowledge of electricity on the part of his reader.”

       + =Ind= 89:558 Mr 26 ‘17 40w

  “The author has unnecessarily increased the bulk of his book by the
  introduction of a good deal of irrelevant matter, and by space given
  to elementary facts connected with wireless telegraphy which might
  quite well have been taken as familiar to any reader likely to be
  interested in it. Moreover, he has rather overestimated the importance
  of the early work of some American investigators, and done
  insufficient justice to that of European workers. He is not a safe
  guide on points of history or priority in relation to
  radio-telegraphic invention.” J. A. F.

     + — =Nature= 99:442 Ag 2 ‘17 800w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:190 D ‘16

  “The book contains more information on this subject than can probably
  be found elsewhere by the general reader, and will give him, as well
  as the trained engineer, a brief history and exposition of the methods
  and some of the apparatus used in radio-dynamics to within
  comparatively few years. ... The subject matter is well planned and
  the diagrams clear and well rendered.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p12 Ja ‘17 150w (Reprinted from the
         Journal of the United States Artillery Nov-Dec ‘16)

         =Scientific American= 115:537 D 9 ‘16 200w


=MIGEOD, FREDERICK WILLIAM HUGH.= Earliest man. *$1.50 Dutton 571 (Eng
ed 17-7052)

  “Mr Migeod’s essay, written in West Africa, is a thoughtful attempt to
  reconstruct the earliest stages in man’s evolution from the beast,
  with illustrations from the life of animals and natives in the
  tropical bush.” (Spec) “The advancement of proto-man to the dignity of
  homo primigenius is also considered, as are the first stages in the
  use of shelter, clothing, weapons, fire and cooking. The transition
  from eoliths to palæoliths, the origin of speech, and social
  organization, are dealt with in the later chapters.” (Ath)

  “The tables of cranial capacities, localities, and chronology are
  useful for reference.”

       + =Ath= p429 S ‘16 170w

  Reviewed by Archibald Henderson

       + =Bookm= 46:274 N ‘17 300w

  “Some of Mr Migeod’s conceptions of the laws and causes of organic
  evolution will by no means commend themselves to those who are
  accustomed to approach the subject from a wider point of view, but the
  novelty of the circumstances in which his little book was written
  makes it stimulating and interesting.” A. S. W.

     + — =Nature= 98:189 N 9 ‘16 300w

         =Spec= 119:385 O 13 ‘17 30w


=MILLAR, ANDREW.= Wheat and its products. (Pitman’s common commodities
of commerce). il 85c (2½c) Pitman 664 17-4602

  “A brief account of the principal cereal: where it is grown, and the
  modern method of producing wheaten flour.” (Subtitle) The author’s
  first purpose has been to write a book that will be of interest to the
  general reader; his second, to make it both interesting and useful to
  millers and “others connected with the breadstuffs industry.”
  Contents: The geography of wheat; Wheat analysis; Ancient milling;
  Silos; Wheat cleaning and conditioning; The break system; Machines
  used in the reduction system; The reduction system; Auxiliary
  appliances; Millstone milling; Corn exchanges. The discussion of
  milling processes seems to be limited to British practice.

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p22 N ‘16 70w

  “Of interest to the general reader as well as interesting and useful
  to millers.”

       + =Pratt= p26 O ‘17 20w

         =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 20w


=MILLER, ALICE (DUER) (MRS HENRY WISE MILLER).= Ladies must live. il
*$1.25 (2½c) Century 17-24402

  Mrs Miller once put to us the question “Are women people?” and
  answered it in the affirmative. About “ladies” her decision may be
  different, for in this story she pictures them as pirates
  high-handedly taking what they consider they need, whether at the game
  of cards or of marriage. Men, even a self-reliant western man, fall
  before the brilliance, charm, and ruthless acquisitiveness of the
  society “ladies” of Long Island and New York. Then, when the black
  flag seems to have conquered, love comes in.

  “It is all preposterous if the reader approaches it equipped with the
  cool monocle of reason. But he ought not to do that: the famous
  glasses of rose colour are his proper tool.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:694 F ‘18 110w

  “Were the dialogue a portrayal of character, the little book would
  have much artistic merit. Since its men and women, however, are types
  rather than individuals, one cannot expect delicately shaded
  conversations.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p9 O 27 ‘17 290w

  “She seems to have drawn her characters from life rather than society
  journals and exhibits genuine wit in their handling.”

       + =Dial= 63:354 O 11 ‘17 50w

         =Ind= 93:240 F 9 ‘18 50w

  “A far from plausible romance, but iridescent with the wit natural to
  the author.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:sup14 N 17 ‘17 90w

  “A book which one immediately forgets all about as soon as it is
  finished.” M. G. S.

       — =N Y Call= p15 S 30 ‘17 270w

  “Mrs Miller presents a satire on the ‘idle rich’ that is amusing, yet
  so improbable that it is essential to give in to her mood absolutely
  for the book to be convincing. The characters are drawn in keeping
  with the general type of the book. ... There is an abundance of smart
  talk, the persons of the novel glitter brightly, but ‘Ladies must
  live’ is not so good as ‘Come out of the kitchen.’”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:367 S 30 ‘17 220w

  “The chief pirate of the tale is reformed by love—a regrettable
  concession to fiction convention. Thackeray’s ‘Becky Sharp’ didn’t
  reform!”

     – + =Outlook= 117:184 O 3 ‘17 50w

  “A clever bit of work.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 590w


=MILLER, ALICE (DUER) (MRS HENRY WISE MILLER).= Women are people! *75c
Doran 817 17-8104

  In her last book of suffrage verse, Mrs Miller asked the question
  which is answered affirmatively in the title of this new volume.
  “Women are people!” contains a collection of new poems, for the most
  part humorous, arranged in four groups: Treacherous texts; Our
  friends; Our friends the enemy; Unauthorized interviews. Many of them
  are reprinted from the New York Tribune.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:378 Je ‘17

  “She proceeds through the sparkling pages of her book of poems to show
  how clever a woman writer can be.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 16 ‘17 350w

       + =N Y Times= 22:234 Je 17 ‘17 280w


=MILLER, EDWIN LILLIE.= English literature. il *$1.60 Lippincott 820.9
17-18730

  The author is principal of the Northwestern high school, Detroit,
  Michigan. He tells us that he has written this “introduction and guide
  to the best English books” to entertain rather than to instruct, and
  that he hopes his pages “will arouse curiosity about books and
  authors, will form the basis of class reports and discussions, and
  will incite people, in and out of school, to read books.” (Preface)
  The volume is in textbook form, with Questions and exercises and
  Suggested readings after each chapter. It brings the subject up to
  date, treating Arnold Bennett, H. G. Wells, Thomas Hardy, Hall Caine,
  Bernard Shaw, Rupert Brooke and others. There is an appendix of a
  little over two pages giving “English history in stories, novels and
  plays,” and an outline map of Great Britain to be filled in by the
  student to form a literary map. The chapters on Milton, Bunyan, and
  Dryden are by Miss Helen M. Hard.

  “Extraordinary opinions and commonplace verdicts upon English
  literature and its makers. ... He refers to a distinguished historian
  as Edgar Augustus Freeman, John Masefield is credited with writing
  ‘The tragedy of man,’ and Arnold Bennett with a novel called ‘Old
  wives’ tales.’” E. F. E.

       — =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 11 ‘17 660w

  “This is an excellent introduction to English literature. We have
  nothing but praise for it.”

       + =Cath World= 106:408 D ‘17 80w

  “The book exhibits many of the points of a good textbook and not much
  besides, except a willingness to draw easy parallels between the
  things of yesterday and to-day. It also shows the tendency of the
  traditional textbook to degenerate into a bede-roll. But it offers
  many good suggestions for collateral reading in historical
  fiction. ... A later edition should point out that the ‘Prioress’
  tale’ is not that of little Hugh of Lincoln, and that Sackville did
  not plan the ‘Mirror for magistrates.’”

     + — =Nation= 105:260 S 6 ‘17 140w

  “An unusual feature is the space given to women writers. The book is
  obviously an expression of the author’s love of literature. ... There
  is not a dry page in the entire 597. The book is adequately
  illustrated and there are special pedagogical features in the way of
  questions and answers, charts, etc. While Mr Miller has written
  primarily for the high school boys and girls his book should prove
  intensely interesting to the general reader.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 17:44 S ‘17 170w

  “Mr Miller’s ‘English literature’ is particularly strong in the number
  and quality of its quotations and selections from the ‘Great
  masterpieces.’ The critical comment is good in the main, though at
  times it seems more positive and final than is necessary for the
  guidance of the young.” E. E. Geyer and R. L. Lyman

     + — =School R= 25:609 O ‘17 110w


=MILLER, ELIZABETH YORK.= Blue aura. il *$1.35 (2½c) Clode, E: J.
17-24815

  Dora Trelawny, a little dancer of the London music halls, is the
  heroine of this story. Dora is undisciplined, selfish, and vain. She
  marries Teddie Tyson of Tyson and Turco, acrobats, and the team
  becomes a trio, for a place for Dora is made in their act. Turco, who
  plays the clown, hides a noble and beautiful soul behind his ugly
  exterior appearance. He understands Dora and acts as the good angel in
  her life, finally meeting his own death in her behalf. Turco had
  possessed psychic powers to a certain degree, and it is thru his
  sacrifice that Dora attains to the “blue aura” he had predicted for
  her.

  “A story of graceful and unaffected sentiment.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:492 D ‘17 90w

  “Its principal claim on the reader’s interest is its capital character
  drawing, much force and delicacy being essential in depicting such a
  wild, yet lovable heroine as Dora.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p11 N 28 ‘17 240w

  “‘The blue aura’ is a pretty story, of undisguised but unforced
  sentiment.”

       + =Nation= 105:541 N 15 ‘17 150w

  “By what means the author contrives to write so commonplace a tale
  without lapsing into cheapness it is difficult to say.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:500 N 25 ‘17 300w

  Reviewed by M. A. Hopkins

         =Pub W= 92:1374 O 20 ‘17 250w


=MILLER, FRANK EBENEZER.= Vocal art-science and its application. il
*$2.50 Schirmer 784.9 17-3597

  This book “is a comprehensive illustrated treatise on vocal matters
  written by Dr Frank E. Miller, long an authority on the subject. ...
  He believes that everyone can and should learn to sing, and advances a
  theory of certain pyramido-prismatic forces within the body comparable
  to those which produce light and energy. With scientific training
  these forces give us beautiful utterance both of the speaking and the
  singing voice. Exercises are given to guide the self-taught student,
  and over sixty illustrations assist the reader to a definite
  comprehension of the author’s vocal gospel. The introduction is by
  Gustav Kobbé.”—R of Rs

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:73 My ‘17

         =R of Rs= 56:445 O ‘17 140w


=MILLER, GEORGE AMOS.= China inside out. il *$1 (2c) Abingdon press
275.1 17-7538

  In order to come close to the Chinese people in their daily lives, the
  author traveled about China on foot and by boat. “The life of the
  Chinese is his theme, what the people say, how they amuse themselves,
  what they have done to represent their ideals of religion, their
  occupations, their daily toil. ... Through these pages walk and speak
  the Chinese people, in terms of universal experience, testifying their
  response to the stimuli of the Christian gospel and western
  civilization.” (Introd.) Contents: The human Chinese; The gospel of
  health; The missionary at work; The Chinese church and its heroes; The
  leaven of life. The book is illustrated with line drawings made from
  photographs by the author.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 4 ‘17 250w

       + =Dial= 62:315 Ap 5 ‘17 110w

       + =Ind= 90:439 Je 2 ‘17 40w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:539 Je ‘17 30w

       + =R of Rs= 55:555 My ‘17 30w

  “It is a very readable book, because it seizes upon picturesquely
  typical scenes and events and narrates them from the viewpoint of a
  wide-awake outside observer.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 17 ‘17 250w

  “Mr Miller writes of China from the point of view of Methodist
  missions in a sort of Billy Sunday vernacular. Very rightly he
  condemns hasty, ignorant and wholesale denunciations of missionaries,
  but at the same time seems rather to lay himself open to the retort
  that had he been longer in the Far East he might have been satisfied
  with a less absolutely sweeping denunciation of the mercantile
  communities of the treaty ports.” I. C. Hannah

         =Survey= 38:360 Jl 21 ‘17 70w


=MILLER, JOHN ORMSBY=, ed. New era in Canada. *$1.75 Dutton 971 17-28860

  “A collection of sixteen essays by leading Canadians, each dealing
  with his or her own special subject, but all more or less concerned,
  directly or indirectly, to point out paths for the betterment of
  Canada after the war. ... The general editor is Dr J. O. Miller,
  principal of Ridley college, Ontario, who contributes one of the best
  essays in the book on ‘The better government of our cities.’”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

         =A L A Bkl= 14:92 D ‘17

       + =Ind= 92:256 N 3 ‘17 160w

  “Two papers are by Leacock, and those who know him only as a jester
  and satirist will be surprised at the pessimism of the professor of
  political economy. ... Equally clear-sighted and vigorous is his
  concluding essay, ‘Our national organization for the war,’ which is
  being circulated in Canada almost as a ‘Tract for the times.’ He
  pricks the bubble of wartime prosperity and warns, like Cassandra, of
  coming ruin. Plain dealing is the note of all the essays. There is no
  flattery of popular prejudices, or of a foolish national pride.”

       + =Nation= 105:604 N 29 ‘17 920w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:126 Ag ‘17 120w

       + =Outlook= 117:574 D 5 ‘17 30w

  “Here are sixteen essays by fifteen different authors, some of whom
  write with a real sense of message; others appear to have been rather
  bored by the invitation to contribute. The warm friendliness that the
  volume before us displays for the United States should be keenly
  appreciated on this side of the international boundary.” I. C. Hannah

     + — =Survey= 39:446 Ja 19 ‘18 460w

  “So much having been said—and it is due—in praise of the book, there
  is something to be said in the direction of criticism. In the first
  place, the thread of unity which runs through the book is a very
  slender thread. ... In the second place, no French-Canadian speaks in
  the book for the place of French Canada.”

 *   + – =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p362 Ag 2 ‘17 1700w


=MILLER, JOSEPH DANA=, ed. Single tax year book; the history, principles
and application of the single tax philosophy. *$2.50 Single tax review
pub. co., 150 Nassau st., N.Y. 336.2 17-28939

  “Every five years the ‘Single tax year book’ presents an inventory of
  what has been accomplished by the movement for the taxation of land
  values. The quinquennial edition of 1917 contains a broad array of
  useful information for those who are interested in this subject. There
  is a bibliography of single tax literature, compiled by Arthur N.
  Young.” (Am Pol Sci R) “This volume, besides dealing with the relation
  of single tax to social problems, is replete with the history of the
  movement, citing the partial application of the principle in New
  Zealand, Australia, the South African republic, western Canada,
  Kiauchau, European and South American countries and in various
  sections of the United States. Of special interest to citizens of the
  New England states is the experience of Rhode Island.” (Springf’d
  Republican)

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:791 N ‘17 110w

         =Ind= 92:262 N 3 ‘17 70w

  “The volume is in every way an excellent one, comprehensive,
  explanatory and exceedingly well compiled.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 N 4 ‘17 520w

  “The book is an encyclopedia upon the subject.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:368 S 30 ‘17 240w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:691 O ‘17

         =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 310w

  “It contains little that is new but much that has been widely
  scattered. Its publication reduces to a scant half dozen the books
  which one must read who desires a knowledge of the single tax
  philosophy, its history and its applications. This means that it will
  serve the movement well. The volume furnishes what is probably a very
  true cross-section of the movement today.” R. M. Haig

       + =Survey= 39:525 F 9 ‘18 630w


=MILLER, WARREN HASTINGS.= Boys’ book of canoeing and sailing. il *$1.25
(1½c) Doran 797 17-9127

  This book by the editor of Field and Stream aims to tell ambitious
  boys not only how to handle boats but how to build them as well. It
  consists of three parts: Sailing and boat building; Canoeing and
  cruising; Motor boat management and construction. The book has many
  illustrations and there are working drawings to accompany the
  directions for building.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:454 Jl ‘17

       + =Ind= 91:77 Jl 14 ‘17 50w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:76 My ‘17

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p11 Ap ‘17 100w

         =Pratt= p32 O ‘17 30w

  “In his published plans and suggestions for the building of boats Mr
  Miller has been careful to keep in mind the limitations of the average
  boy’s pocketbook and only the least expensive materials are
  considered.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:665 Je ‘17 170w

       + =St Louis= 15:378 O ‘17 20w


=MILLER, WARREN HASTINGS.= Rifles and shotguns; the art of rifle and
shotgun shooting for big game and feathered game; with special chapters
on military rifle shooting. il *$2 (3c) Doran 799 17-13239

  A work by the editor of Field and Stream. Contents: Four centuries of
  firearms; Rifle mechanics; Rifle sights; Aiming at big game; Trigger
  release; Rifle targets; Two rifles for the poor man; The .22 rifle;
  The U.S. military rifle; Know your gun; The man’s game of
  trapshooting; Clay bird practice afield; Shotgun mechanics; Snap
  shooting; Cartridges and tables. The book is very fully illustrated.

       + =Cleveland= p115 S ‘17 20w

  “A useful treatise filled with not too technical information of value
  to the sportsman and, in less degree, to the intending soldier.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 13 ‘17 270w


=MILLET, PHILIPPE.= Comrades in arms; tr. by Lady Frazer. *$1 (3c) Doran
940.91 (Eng ed 17-12511)

  A book of war sketches translated from the French. The author says,
  “For a period of several months, in my capacity of liaison-officer
  attached to a British division, I was in a position to see the
  soldiers of the British empire and of France fighting side by side.
  From this moving multitude certain figures, grave or gay by turns,
  stood out in relief day by day. To my eyes they summed up, better than
  an abstract analysis, the distinctive features of the two nations in
  arms. I have here attempted to bring them together just as they were
  in reality.” There is an introduction by J. St Loe Strachey, editor of
  the Spectator.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:20 O ‘17

  “Spirited, humorous and sympathetic.”

       + =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 30w

       + =R of Rs= 55:668 Je ‘17 70w

  “We are delighted to see that Captain Philippe Millet’s charming book,
  ‘En liaison avec les Anglais,’ reviewed by us some three months ago,
  has been translated, and very well translated, by Lady Frazer. ... We
  desire to put up a signpost to the new version to let those who do not
  read French easily know how much pleasure and interest they will get
  from this brilliant and sympathetic study of the British army.”

       + =Spec= 118:20 Ja 6 ‘17 700w

  “Words of appreciation like this from a French soldier, who is
  military correspondent of the Paris Temps, and has himself been
  decorated for conspicuous bravery, should be relished by the Tommies.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 270w


=MILLIGAN, GEORGE.=[2] Expository value of the Revised version. *75c
Scribner 220 A17-497

  “The purpose of this little volume in ‘The short-course series’ is not
  to repeat the material that came from the pens of Trench, Ellicott,
  Lightfoot, and Westcott concerning the Revised version. ... The first
  part contains in the compass of twenty pages a brief history of the
  English translations of the Bible. Then follows a discussion, under
  negative and positive heads, of the practical use of the Revised
  version. The third section, about fifty pages, contains a concrete
  study of the doctrinal significance of the Revised version.”—Bib World

  “There is need of a short discussion of the value of other versions of
  the Bible than the Authorized. This is admirably supplied in the
  present book. [In Section 3] Dr Milligan sets forth an array of
  interesting variations in translation which ought to bring freshness
  and strength into the preaching of any pastor who will follow out the
  study. This section of the book ought to have been more extensive.”

     + — =Bib World= 50:255 O ‘17 210w

  “Does not omit the usual strong Protestant bias. The book is useful,
  but contains little that is noteworthy. Its scholarly author would
  have done better had he omitted the commonplace history which did not
  belong strictly to his subject, and expanded his real theme which is
  both interesting and important.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:553 Ja ‘18 140w

         =St Louis= 15:318 S ‘17 10w


=MILLIKAN, ROBERT ANDREWS.=[2] Electron. (Univ. of Chicago science ser.)
il *$1.50 Univ. of Chicago press 537.1 17-22580

  “The purpose of this volume is to present the evidence for the atomic
  structure of electricity, to describe some of the most significant
  properties of the elementary electrical unit, the electron, and to
  discuss the bearing of these properties upon the two most important
  problems of modern physics: the structure of the atom and the nature
  of electromagnetic radiation.” (Introd.) In order that the thread of
  discussion in the main body of the book need not be broken,
  mathematical proofs have been reserved for appendixes. The author is
  professor of physics in the University of Chicago, and the work is
  based largely on his own experiments in the Ryerson laboratory.

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p12 O ‘17 70w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:816 D ‘17 60w

  “Millikan’s beautiful investigations on the electronic charge and on
  the photo-electric effect are justly celebrated throughout the
  scientific world; they will undoubtedly become classical examples of
  the highest type of modern physical research. A description of such
  researches by their author is immensely valuable and will serve to
  stimulate scientific investigation as nothing else can.” H. A. W.

       + =Science= n s 47:44 Ja 11 ‘18 520w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p440 S 13 ‘17 700w


=MILLS, ENOS ABIJAH.= Your national parks. il *$2.50 (4c) Houghton 711
17-14711

  This well illustrated volume provides a complete historical and
  descriptive guide to our national parks. The Hawaii national park is
  included, and one chapter is given up to the National parks of Canada.
  Another chapter is fittingly devoted to John Muir. A list of books, on
  national parks, including government publications, is provided, and
  there are several maps, reproduced by permission of the National park
  service of the Department of the interior. The Guide to national
  parks, prepared by Laurence F. Schmeckebier, gives detailed
  information for the tourist.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:92 D ‘17

  Reviewed by LeRoy Jeffers

       + =Bookm= 46:213 O ‘17 770w

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 11 ‘17 380w

       + =Cleveland= p113 S ‘17 30w

       + =Dial= 63:115 Ag 16 ‘17 320w

       + =Ind= 91:75 Jl 14 ‘17 50w

  “You can not wonder, after you read his pages and scan the
  photo-pictures with which they are illustrated, that Mr Mills asks:
  ‘Why not each year send thousands of school children through the
  national parks?’ If you love the west, you should read this tribute,
  whatever be your hunger to see that region once more. The book will do
  you good, even tho you must be hereafter a stay-at-home.”

       + =Lit D= 56:42 F 9 ‘18 430w

  “No intelligent traveller who intends to visit the national parks
  should fail to read Muir as a spiritual preparation, but he will do
  well to avail himself of the more detailed information of Mills also.”

       + =Nation= 105:17 Jl 5 ‘17 380w

  “Comprehensive and valuable book, with more than five hundred pages of
  full and accurate information. ... Mr Schmeckebier’s ‘Guide,’ in the
  appendix, contains much valuable information for the tourist.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:229 Je 17 ‘17 650w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:651 O ‘17 90w

  “The entire volume, with its pictures and maps, should be owned by
  every visitor to the parks.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:221 Ag ‘17 160w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 24 ‘17 480w


=MILLS, WALTER THOMAS.= Democracy or despotism. $1.25 International
school of social economy, 2333 Haste St., Berkeley, Cal. 16-16745

  “Mr Mills ... shows first that the United States is not a real
  democracy, pointing out the familiar conditions in industry and
  politics through which the popular will may be checked. The measures
  through which democracy is to be attained are universal political
  education; representation in legislative bodies of the economic
  interests of the people rather than of geographical divisions; social
  ownership and control of the means of production, transportation, and
  exchange; and the initiative, referendum, and recall. The ideal is a
  world democracy. The author’s position is essentially that of the
  organized socialist movement, although in some details he is in
  opposition to the position officially taken by the American Socialist
  party.”—Am Econ R

  Reviewed by G. B. L. Arner

         =Am Econ R= 7:435 Je ‘17 120w

         =Int J Ethics= 27:269 Ja ‘17 80w


=MINER, MAUDE EMMA.= Slavery of prostitution; a plea for emancipation.
*$1.50 Macmillan 176 16-22872

  “Those who have known Maude Miner’s work as secretary of the Probation
  and protective association of New York will be especially interested
  in this summary of her many years’ experience in work for delinquent
  girls. The book is written from a personal rather than from a
  scientific point of view and for that reason is valuable as a
  supplement to the various treatises and reports of vice commissions
  that have been issued on the subject of prostitution. The author shows
  that prostitution is not an isolated evil that can be abolished by
  direct methods of attack. She discusses its relation to housing
  conditions, industrial maladjustment and lack of recreation
  facilities, as well as to evil companionship and mental defect.”—Ann
  Am Acad

  “There is breadth of view, sanity, balance, a strong sense of social
  causation, a healthy but not blind optimism in all Miss Miner says.
  There seems reason only for praise for such a timely and admirable
  book.” H. E. Mills

       + =Am Econ R= 7:905 D ‘17 410w

  “Of value to students, social workers, judges, and physicians.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:374 Je ‘17

  “The fact that the book is popular in form, free from sordid details,
  and gives much space to a program of prevention, makes it especially
  useful for laymen who are interested in modern methods of prevention
  and correction of delinquency.” H. G.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:241 My ‘17 200w

         =Cleveland= p53 Ap ‘17 50w

  “Does more than merely relate facts; it correlates them to their
  causes on the one hand, and on the other to the social remedies to
  which we must look for the protection of girls from all forms of the
  exploitation which ends in their ruin. ... Miss Miner, bringing to her
  task the equipment of experience gained in her many years as probation
  officer in the Women’s night-court of New York feels that society’s
  obligation is a double one; to help out those who have been enmeshed
  in the slavery of prostitution and to prevent others from being caught
  in it.” Alice Henry

       + =Life and Labor= 7:28 F ‘17 700w

       + =Nation= 104:583 My 10 ‘17 750w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:13 Ja ‘17

  “It is therefore a matter of grave moment to the public that the great
  theme ... should be freely and rationally discussed by one so well
  equipped as Miss Miner has been, both by scholarly research and years
  of probation work in the Night court.” Jane Addams

       + =St Louis= 15:49 F ‘17 40w

       + =Spec= 118:77 Ja 20 ‘17 130w

  “This is an admirable book. It strikes exactly the right note. ... It
  is not a compilation of disagreeable revelations. It is not
  sentimental, nor salacious. ... There is definite information, but it
  is illuminated by a sympathetic understanding of what the general
  reader requires to know and what may be left for official reports.” E:
  T. Devine

       + =Survey= 37:154 N 11 ‘16 450w


=MINER, WILLIAM HARVEY.=[2] American Indians, north of Mexico. il *$1
(1c) Putnam 970.1 (Eng ed 17-27757)

  The aim of the author has been to provide a brief popular account of
  the American Indian which should be at the same time authentic and
  comprehensive. He points out in his preface that it has been the lack
  of systematic arrangement rather than a dearth of material that has
  handicapped the student. Contents: Introduction; General facts; Indian
  sociology; The plains Indians; The Indians of the south-west; Indian
  mythology. These chapters are followed by notes, bibliography and
  index and there is a map showing principal linguistic families.

  “Mr Miner has been well advised in his choice of authorities and has
  escaped most of the pitfalls into which other would-be popular writers
  frequently fall. It would have been better had the specific narratives
  been appended to the general discussion instead of being sandwiched
  into the middle of it. The former would also have been improved
  considerably by a chapter on material culture and economic life.” J:
  R. Swanton

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:436 Ja ‘18 450w

  “There is a good bibliography, and the book may be commended as a
  satisfactory popular introduction to the study of a remarkable
  people.”

       + =Nature= 99:283 Je 7 ‘17 250w


=MITCHELL, JOHN AMES.= Drowsy. il *$1.50 (2c) Stokes 17-25378

  This is a scientific fairy tale which is also a love story. Cyrus
  Alton, called “Drowsy,” who is only seven when we make his
  acquaintance, is the illegitimate son of an Italian singer and a young
  American doctor. Dr Alton settles with his boy in a little
  Massachusetts village where Cyrus makes friends with Ruth Heywood, the
  minister’s daughter. Cyrus has a strange faculty of knowing what
  people are going to say before they speak, and also of knowing the
  unuttered wishes of faraway friends. About half of the book deals with
  the grown-up Cyrus, who invents “a contrivance hardly bigger than a
  dinner-plate that generates electricity without machinery and has
  infinite power,” takes a voyage to the moon, where he finds enormous
  green diamonds, and starts for Mars but is recalled by Ruth, who has
  refused him but who finally sends a message out into space telling him
  that she has always really loved him.

  “A fantastic tale which the author asserts is not a fairy story for it
  may come true. Drowsy is quite human, particularly in his youth in
  spite of his remarkable gifts.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:170 F ‘18

  “No task is more delicate and dangerous to a writer than the
  revelation of the future. Mr Mitchell strikes a very happy medium when
  he opens the door of the future for us in his latest novel. He is very
  clever about it.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 1 ‘17 530w

  “It is a fanciful tale, a book of dreams, but sometimes dreams come
  true. Mr Mitchell charms and fascinates by his philosophical comments
  on human foibles and human achievements.”

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 29 ‘17 240w

  “The success of a tale of this kind does not depend upon whether
  equally marvelous things have actually taken place, but upon the
  author’s ability to convince us of the credibility of those he
  relates, during the time, at least, that we are reading his book. And
  in this ability—a somewhat rare one—Mr Mitchell is lacking.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:413 O 21 ‘17 260w


=MITCHELL, JULIA POST.= St Jean de Crèvecœur. (Columbia univ. studies in
English and comparative literature) *$1.50 Columbia univ. press 16-16336

  St Jean de Crèvecoeur was a Frenchman who came to America before the
  Revolution, settled on a farm in New York state and wrote a book,
  “Letters from an American farmer,” which was brought out in London in
  1782. After the close of the Revolution he went back to his native
  land, to return later as French consul, in which capacity he was
  instrumental in establishing the packet service between France and
  America. From historical collections in America and family records in
  France, Miss Mitchell has brought together material for an interesting
  biography.

         =Ath= p255 My ‘17 90w

         =Cleveland= p115 S ‘17 60w

  “This doctoral dissertation is the evidence of a good many years of
  untiring research, and is therefore much less superficial or
  fragmentary than investigations by the late Robert de Crèvecœur, F. B.
  Sanborn, Mr Barton Blake, and others. ... New readers will hardly be
  drawn to Crèvecœur and his letters by this scholarly biography. Dr
  Mitchell’s stagnancy of style in her ‘Life’ of an author who was
  seldom wanting in a certain naïve vivacity, no doubt follows the
  purest German tradition, which is too generally, in American
  universities, the tradition of our scholarship also; but that
  authoritative theses are necessarily dull has been disproved to us
  again and again by the work of candidates for the French doctorate of
  letters.”

     + — =Dial= 62:486 My 31 ‘17 500w

  “Well-written biography.”

       + =Spec= 119:40 Jl 14 ‘17 80w

  “An important addition to the history of early Franco-American
  relations.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 13 ‘16 950w

  “Miss Mitchell has told the world all that it is ever likely to know
  about Crèvecoeur, his life and his labours. But, after all, is the
  game quite worth the candle? If research of this kind is to be
  prosecuted it were surely as well to prosecute it with discrimination
  and a due sense of proportion. Applied to Crèvecoeur it appears to us
  to be a little overdone, even though, in itself, it is as well done as
  Miss Mitchell has done it.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p196 Ap 26 ‘17 920w


=MITTON, GERALDINE EDITH.= Cellar-house of Pervyse; a tale of uncommon
things. il *$2.25 Oxford 940.91 17-13748

  “‘The cellar-house of Pervyse’ describes one of the most romantic
  undertakings by women in the whole war. Mrs Knocker (now the Baroness
  T’Serclaes) and Miss Mairi Chisholm were members of a Red cross party
  which went to Belgium at the beginning of the war. Mrs Knocker had
  been trained as a nurse, but Miss Chisholm had not. They were,
  however, prepared to do anything, no matter how dangerous, that they
  might be allowed to do. For a time they helped in motor-ambulance work
  under conditions of unceasing peril. ... In spite of much disapproval
  and opposition, they established a ‘poste de secours’ in the village
  of Pervyse. Their theory was that a large proportion of seriously
  wounded men died of exhaustion through being hurried to the rear, and
  that many more lives might be saved if the wounded were treated first
  ‘for shock’ near the trenches, even though the dressing of their
  wounds might be insufficient in itself. This theory was brilliantly
  justified.”—Spec

  “A valuable first-hand account of one of the most tragic phases of the
  war. Those who wish for ‘uninspired’ and thorough detail concerning
  Belgium and a part of her sufferings should read it carefully.”

       + =Ath= p601 D ‘16 30w

  “A story utterly unlike any other narrative of the war in all its
  varied aspects.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 13 ‘17 1250w

  “This volume, even after the hundreds of war books with all their
  details of horrors endured with courage, stands out as a wonderful
  record of brave and efficient service.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:9 Ja 14 ‘17 550w

       + =Pratt= p42 O ‘17 40w

  “The photographs give a good idea of the scene of the desolation amid
  which the heroic pair worked, and of types of Belgian soldiers.”

       + =Sat R= 122:534 D 2 ‘16 550w

  “A wonderful story of unflinching spirit and good-heartedness.”

       + =Spec= 118:239 F 24 ‘17 250w


=MITTON, GERALDINE EDITH.= Lost cities of Ceylon. il *$3.50 Stokes
915.48 (Eng ed 17-12260)

  “Out of India—as well as from Africa—there always comes something new.
  Most people at any rate will be surprised to learn from this
  well-written book that the remains of the ancient civilization of
  Ceylon, ranging in date from 500 B.C. to A.D. 1200, are comparable in
  magnitude to the pyramids and temples of Egypt, and that the fragments
  of sculpture in the ruined cities of Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa are
  superb in their vigour and grace. A glance at Miss Mitton’s excellent
  photographs will show that her enthusiasm is in no wise misplaced. Her
  book is based on the official reports of the experts who, at a
  trifling cost, have cleared the jungle from these wonderful old ruins
  and given them a new lease of life.”—Spec

  “It is a book of one who has solved the difficulties of travel and who
  writes to make the way easy for others as well as to direct them to
  the more noteworthy sights of the island. For this reason it reads at
  times somewhat like the better class of guide book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 O 13 ‘17 380w

       + =R of Rs= 57:219 F ‘18 120w

  “Many travellers have lamented in the past the small number of
  available books describing the history and antiquities of Ceylon. Miss
  Mitton, therefore, supplies a real need, and she has written with care
  and with enthusiasm.” Bishop Frodsham

       + =Sat R= 122:554 D 9 ‘16 950w

       + =Spec= 117:sup610 N 18 ‘16 120w

  “It is not easy to ‘place’ exactly Miss Mitton’s book. It is too
  practical and useful for a mere book of travels, a little too learned
  for a guide book, and not quite learned enough for a treatise on the
  ancient architecture of Ceylon. ... To the really intelligent
  traveller the book should be very useful indeed. What distinguishes
  this book from most others of its kind is that its author has a
  passionate—the word is no exaggeration—interest in the places which
  she describes. She skilfully mixes archæological description with
  history. ... She can usually be accepted as a safe guide, but she is
  sometimes, we think, carried away by her enthusiasm.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p519 N 2 ‘16 1000w


=MOKVELD, L.= German fury in Belgium; tr. by C. Thieme. *$1 (1½c) Doran
940.91 17-22682

  This book gives the experiences of a Netherland journalist during four
  months with the German army in Belgium. John Buchan in his preface
  calls it “an admirable piece of war-correspondence, which bears on
  every page the proofs of shrewd observation and a sincere love of
  truth and honest dealing.” Contents: On the way to Liège; In Liège and
  back to Maastricht; Round about Liège; Visé destroyed; a premeditated
  crime; Francs-tireurs? With the Flemings; Liège after the occupation;
  Louvain destroyed; Louvain under the mailed fist; Along the Meuse to
  Huy, Andenne, and Namur; From Maastricht to the French frontier: the
  destruction of Dinant; On the battle-fields; Round about Bilsen;
  During the siege of Antwerp; The ill-treatment of British wounded; On
  the Yser.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:54 N ‘17

  “Of course Mr Mokveld’s book is not for those who shudder at the truth
  even when it is necessary to tell the truth for the sake of the
  betterment of mankind. It is, however, essential that the world should
  know the truth about Germany, and it cannot be better learned than
  through such books as this.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 3 ‘17 730w

         =Cath World= 105:694 Ag ‘17 70w

         =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 30w

  “His account is calm and impartial.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:306 Ag 19 ‘17 230w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:682 O ‘17 60w

         =R of Rs= 56:214 Ag ‘17 90w


=MONAHAN, MICHAEL.= New adventures. *$2 (3c) Doran 814 17-28176

  Under the five headings: Mannahatta; Mannahatta II; Portraits and
  preferences; Realities and inventions; and Lagniappe, Mr Monahan chats
  about Newyorkitis; Old men for love; Balzac the artist; Bermuda; The
  circus; The age of safety, etc.

  “One might ignore the author’s paragraphs about sex were they not so
  frequent and conspicuous. ... Omitting the lapses, and the banalities
  and frayed truisms that occasionally pop their smirking faces up there
  is much to give genuine pleasure in ‘New adventures.’ ... We find him
  a lover of mankind except for a slightly jaundiced view of women. He
  has found life good in the main.” H. S. Gorman

     + — =Bookm= 46:724 F ‘18 780w

  “Genial reflections upon life and art. ... Mr Monahan gives us a
  diversion on all his pages, and on many of them a humorous thrill or
  an appealing shock.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 O 13 ‘17 550w

  “Especially interesting are the two chapters ‘Mannahatta’ and his
  artistic short stories, ‘Nocturne’ and ‘Yearnings.’”

       + =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 70w

  “It is a book that can be read with pleasure and with some profit; at
  least it is never stodgy.”

       + =Nation= 105:642 D 6 ‘17 140w

  “Slight as its encouragement has been, until recent years, the
  American essay has developed a form and style and spirit of its own.
  And in all three of these things Mr Monahan’s essays are
  characteristically of our own product. They are brief and pithy, they
  have humor and grace and the genial spirit, and above all they are
  intensely interested in the swirling stream of present life.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:3 Ja 6 ‘18 590w

  “Mr Monahan writes with some frankness about streetwalkers, and
  elderly roués, and about miscellaneous other things. Unfortunately one
  is not sure that he is wholly untouched by the sex-mania which he
  deplores.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 21 ‘17 140w


=MONROE, HARRIET, and HENDERSON, ALICE CORBIN=, eds. New poetry. *$1.75
Macmillan 821.08 17-7483

  An anthology compiled by the editors of Poetry: a magazine of verse.
  An introductory discussion of the “new poetry” opens the volume. The
  editors say “It [the new poetry] is less vague, less verbose, less
  eloquent, than most poetry of the Victorian period and much work of
  earlier periods. It has set before itself an ideal of absolute
  simplicity and sincerity—an ideal which implies an individual,
  unstereotyped diction; and an individual, unstereotyped rhythm.” The
  poets who are writing today do not disregard tradition, “on the
  contrary, they follow the great tradition when they seek a vehicle
  suited to their own epoch and their own creative mood, and resolutely
  reject all others.” Poetry written before 1900 has not been included.
  One hundred poets are represented, among them: Conrad Aiken; Mary
  Aldis; Witter Bynner; Robert Frost; W. W. Gibson; Vachel Lindsay; Amy
  Lowell; Edgar Lee Masters; Ezra Pound; Carl Sandburg; and Louis
  Untermeyer.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:342 My ‘17

  “The editors of Poetry have been cordial to all schools, and they
  offer the best of modern English verse in their new anthology. The
  result is of that rare company—a book to keep at hand.” K. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Mr 24 ‘17 800w

         =Cath World= 105:263 My ‘17 870w

  “A highly interesting volume, prefaced by a valuable essay
  interpreting the spirit and aim of the new movement as an attempt at
  ‘a concrete and immediate realization of life,’”

       + =Cleveland= p65 My ‘17 70w

  “It is fairly comprehensive as regards American poets, but makes
  lamentable omissions as regards the English. ... It seems almost as if
  Miss Monroe had a peculiar instinct for choosing a poet’s
  second-best. ... It is neither old nor new, good nor bad, selective
  nor comprehensive. ... The result is a disappointing half-success—a
  provoking half-failure.” Conrad Aiken

 *   – + =Dial= 62:389 My 3 ‘17 1250w

  “To my mind the book is inexact, and its aim and claim, if I
  understand its declarations, is exactness.” O. W. Firkins

     – + =Nation= 105:597 N 29 ‘17 580w

  “It is only the indescribable gleam of the ‘true gold’ of poesy, that
  fairy magic beyond analysis of great verse, that can command the
  prize. And just this true gold it is which too often lacks in the
  volume Miss Monroe and Mrs Henderson have prepared.” M. T.

     – + =New Repub= 12:307 O 13 ‘17 2500w

  “Praiseworthy as are many of the inclusions, we cannot understand a
  mind that seeks to treat of the significant poetry of today and omits
  Giovannitti, Harry Kemp, Edwin Markham, Chesterton, Davies, Belloc,
  Lascelles Abercrombie, Irene McCleod, Ruth Comfort Mitchell, to
  mention only a few. There is a provincial smallness in the fact that
  three fourths of the poets included have poems selected which have
  appeared in Poetry. ... But, taking it all in all, it answers the
  purpose.” Clement Wood

     + — =N Y Call= p12 Ap 27 ‘17 250w

  “The chief criticism against the book, or rather against the poets of
  today as here they show themselves, is that four or five of the
  writers practically include the rest, and that out of the hundred some
  half dozen only are truly original. ... Yet this alikeness is not a
  result of imitation; rather it appears to be born of similarities of
  experience and culture and outlook. ... It is difficult to
  overestimate the need for just such a book. ... The volume is made
  more useful by the bibliography with which it concludes, where all the
  books published by the several authors are noted, as well as most of
  the magazines in which the poems quoted from serial publications
  appeared. The table of contents is particularly well arranged.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:81 Mr 11 ‘17 1550w

  “Handsome but too indulgent volume.” Lawrence Gilman

         =No Am= 205:781 My ‘17 1100w

         =Pratt= p35 O ‘17 20w

  “For the envisioning of the range of the ‘new poetry,’ and a
  comparison of its diversities, there is no other collection that
  compares with this anthology.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:437 Ap ‘17 450w

         =St Louis= 15:183 Je ‘17 10w

  “The title aside, it is an admirable collection. ... There are exactly
  101 names on the list, mostly of Americans. All the British writers
  represented in the two collections of Georgian poetry are allotted
  space, save for Mr Chesterton and James Elroy Flecker.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 23 ‘17 330w

  “The best collection for the library needing a volume to represent the
  new school of poetry. ... From the viewpoint of merit, the emphasis is
  open to criticism: the greatest space is given to Ezra Pound, the next
  to Miss Monroe herself, then follow Masters and Sandburg.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:156 My ‘17 70w

  “Surely at least one poem by Miss Letts and several by Irene McLeod
  and Lascelles Abercrombie should be found in this volume. What can be
  said of the standard of selection that omits Hodgson’s ‘Eve’ and ‘A
  song of honor?’ For this last poem we would willingly forego the
  seventeen pages—chiefly affectation—of Ezra Pound. ... No one
  concerned with modern thought and its expression can afford to neglect
  this book. If it is not full of what Herrick called poetic pillars, it
  offers many guide posts. The emotions and thoughts of many of the
  contributors to this anthology seem in solution; they have not
  crystallized. Here, then, are the young poets of America in the
  making, and if one could prophesy, the future of American verse might
  be read in these pages.” E: B. Reed

     + — =Yale R= n s 6:861 Jl ‘17 370w


=MONROE, WALTER SCOTT; DE VOSS, JAMES CLARENCE, and KELLY, FREDERICK
JAMES.= Educational tests and measurements. (Riverside textbooks in
education) *$1.50 Houghton 371 17-28093

  During recent years many educational tests have been devised and put
  into practice. The purpose of the present work is to give “a clear and
  simple statement as to the nature of the different tests which have
  been evolved, their use, their reliability, what are the best standard
  scores so far arrived at, and, in particular, how to diagnose the
  results and apply remedial instruction.” (Editor’s introd.) The book
  is designed primarily for teachers. A preliminary discussion of The
  inaccuracy of present school marks is followed by chapters devoted to
  special school subjects: Arithmetic; Reading; Spelling; Handwriting;
  Language; High-school subjects. Following these are four chapters on:
  Statistical methods; The meaning of scores; The derivation of tests,
  and examinations; Use of standard tests in the supervision of
  instruction.

  “The book provides the reader with very complete bibliographies and on
  the whole will fill a need which has been experienced by school men
  recently for a fairly complete compilation of the tests which are now
  available.”

       + =El School J= 18:230 N ‘17 550w

       + =School R= 25:691 N ‘17 550w (Same as El School J review)


=MONTAGUE, GILBERT HOLLAND.= Business competition and the law. *$1.75
(3½c) Putnam 338.8 17-8475

  How everyday trade conditions are affected by the anti-trust laws is
  the subject of this book. The author is a lawyer who writes here for
  the practical business man. The book is based on articles that
  appeared in Printers’ Ink in 1915. Contents: Dangers of aggressive
  salesmanship; Letters that spell conspiracy; Getting your competitor’s
  business; Price-discriminations and price-manipulation;
  “Exclusive-dealer” agreements; The scope of patent protection; Some
  “tying-contract” traps; The problem of “price-cutting”; Why join a
  trade association? The book closes with a bibliography and list of
  authorities.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:7 O ‘17

  “The purpose in writing seems to be rather to induce terror than to
  produce light.” A. M. Kales

       — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:591 Ag ‘17 360w

  “It is phrased in a colloquial style and its manner of expression is
  simple and natural. What is more noteworthy, it represents lucid
  treatments of subjects of which the author has an intimate technical
  knowledge.” Frank Parker

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:295 N ‘17 350w

  “In addition to being authoritative, ‘Business competition and the
  law,’ has been written in a style which will make interesting reading
  for business men in general.” R. C. V. A.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 28 ‘17 650w

  “His book gives little evidence of an attempt to understand the new
  economic tendencies; it offers little encouragement to the group of
  industrial leaders who are trying to develop the newer laws of
  competition.”

       — =Ind= 91:133 Jl 28 ‘17 110w

  Reviewed by Eliot Jones

         =J Pol Econ= 25:751 Jl ‘17 700w

         =Nation= 105:269 S 6 ‘17 300w

  “It may be doubted that men of business can find elsewhere a better
  guide through the mazes of the law regarding conspiracies in restraint
  of trade. The decisions can be found elsewhere, but not the bills of
  complaint, the charges to juries, the decrees by consent, with their
  reasons, and other proceedings difficult of access which Mr Montague
  cites in his discussions.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:298 Ag 12 ‘17 650w

  “Does what such broad discussions of legal principles and precedents
  as William H. Taft’s admirable book, ‘The anti-trust act,’ do not
  accomplish: it shows in detail how the law bears upon small business
  as well as big business. ... Mr Montague has written a well-conceived
  and useful book—a book that may be read with profit not only by
  business men, but by all who wish to study the workings of a law that
  is also a public policy.”

       + =No Am= 205:805 My ‘17 850w

  “He has done just what he meant to do, and just what hundreds of
  business men wanted him to do. But at the same time we do miss the
  broader spirit—the spirit that Edward N. Hurley has put into
  ‘Awakening of business.’ ... The excellent bibliography gives a
  summary of some sixty or so notable cases of collision with the
  Sherman and Clayton acts.” Doris Webb

       + =Pub W= 91:976 Mr 17 ‘17 840w

         =R of Rs= 56:441 O ‘17 110w

         =St Louis= 15:321 S ‘17

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 17 ‘17 330w


=MONTAGUE, MARGARET PRESCOTT.= Twenty minutes of reality; an experience,
with some illuminating letters concerning it. *75c (6½c) Dutton 248
17-10440

  An essay printed anonymously in the Atlantic Monthly in 1916 now
  appears under the author’s name. She describes an experience that came
  to her during convalescence after a serious illness, in which, with
  suddenly cleared vision, she seemed to sense for the first time the
  wonder and beauty and worth of life. With this little essay are
  printed a number of the letters called forth from others who had had
  similar revelations.

  “The book will be helpful to those seeking a vital religious
  experience, and it will suggest means of comfort to those who mourn
  for their dead. ... The book will prove interesting to all, and of
  practical value to not a few.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 500w

  “This pseudo-mysticism might be amusing were it not that the
  neurasthenics who give their experiences are devoid of all sense of
  humor.”

       — =Cath World= 105:408 Je ‘17 110w

  “Idealistically sound, and heartening at the same time, in these days
  of war this big little message is most timely.”

       + =Ind= 90:439 Je 2 ‘17 60w

  “The book makes, altogether, a contribution to psychology of
  consequence and interest; and also it will induce in every thoughtful
  reader much speculation—and possibly experiment sometimes—as to the
  cause of such an experience and as to the possibility of making the
  condition described that of ordinary life.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:290 Ag 5 ‘17 650w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 12 ‘17 200w


=MONTAGU-NATHAN, M.= Contemporary Russian composers. il *$2.50 Stokes
780.9 17-26884

  “We can best describe the book by saying that it is a thoroughly
  successful effort to make good the author’s aim as defined in his
  introduction—that of showing modern Russian music to be, not a nine
  days’ wonder, but a genuine and fruitful contribution of abiding value
  to the youngest of the arts.” (Spec) “The works of Skriabin,
  Glazounov, Stravinsky, Rakhmaninov, Rebikov, Taneyev, Medtner, and
  other composers are discussed and criticized at some length. The first
  thirty-four pages of the volume are devoted to an interesting survey
  of Russian musical history.” (Ath)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:84 D ‘17

         =Ath= p251 My ‘17 100w

       + =N Y Times= 22:479 N 18 ‘17 510w

         =Pratt= p32 O ‘17 10w

  “Mr Montagu-Nathan writes with intense sympathy, but he is far from
  being uncritical. ... His style is efficient, though somewhat
  laborious, and he is inclined to overload his comments with the
  ponderous jargon of modern art criticism; but he does not write for
  mere writing’s sake, he shows at times an agreeable sense of dry
  humour, and he excels in his judicial summaries.”

     + — =Spec= 118:366 Mr 24 ‘17 1450w

  “He covers the ground well, and his book is in so far of real
  value. ... But he makes, it must be confessed, demands on the reader’s
  patience. The facts are wrapped up in a maze of words, the criticisms
  are both vague and long, and the style is repellent.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p139 Mr 22 ‘17 1200w


=MONTESSORI, MARIA.= Montessori elementary material; tr. from the
Italian by Arthur Livingston. (Advanced Montessori method) il *$2 Stokes
371.4 (17-25133)

  In this book the Montessori principles of education are applied to the
  needs of children above kindergarten age. It consists of seven parts,
  devoted to: Grammar; Reading; Arithmetic; Geometry; Drawing; Music;
  and Metrics. The English work is in part a translation and in part an
  adaptation of the original. So far as grammar is concerned an effort
  has been made to take account of differences between the two
  languages, and new illustrative material has been substituted. A
  number of the illustrations are from photographs taken in Montessori
  schools in operation in the United States.

  “Here is a book which the average parent and teacher will really
  read. ... It is not at all certain, however, that the book as it
  stands quite meets the needs of American schools.” H. T. C.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 O 17 ‘17 260w


=MONTESSORI, MARIA.= Spontaneous activity in education; tr. from the
Italian by Florence Simmonds. (Advanced Montessori method) il *$2 (2c)
Stokes 371.4 (17-25133)

  This work is a general discussion of all the principles that underlie
  Dr Montessori’s system of education. It consists of chapters on: A
  survey of the child’s life; A survey of modern education; My
  contribution to experimental science; The preparation of the teacher;
  Environment; Attention; Will; Intelligence; Imagination. The book is
  without an index, a lack partly supplied by an analytical table of
  contents.

  “It covers much of the ground already gone over. Its contribution,
  then, to current educational literature is of no unusual value.” H. T.
  C.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 17 ‘17 260w


=MONTGOMERY, LUCY MAUD (MRS EVAN MACDONALD).= Anne’s house of dreams. il
*$1.40 (1½c) Stokes 17-22301

  This is the same Anne who was the heroine of “Anne of Green Gables”
  and “Anne of Avonlea,” and the scene is still Prince Edward’s Island.
  Anne marries in the fourth chapter and goes to live in her “house of
  dreams” at Four Winds Harbour. The book brings in some of her old
  friends and a number of new ones.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:61 N ‘17

         =N Y Times= 22:318 Ag 26 ‘17 350w


=MONTGOMERY, LUCY MAUD (MRS EVAN MACDONALD).= Watchman, and other poems.
*$1.25 Stokes 811 17-30917

  A volume of poems by the author of “Anne of Green Gables” and other
  popular stories. “The watchman,” from which the title of the book is
  taken, is a narrative poem, relating an incident at the time of the
  crucifixion. “Songs of the sea” and “Songs of the hills and woods”
  follow, and the remainder of the book is taken up with miscellaneous
  poems.


=MONTGOMERY, ROBERT HIESTER.= Income tax procedure, 1917. *$2.50 Ronald
336.2 17-2659

  “This work, by its author’s own profession, is not a treatise on the
  income tax but rather a reference manual for the individual, company,
  or trustee who wishes authoritative guidance in the actual reporting
  of income as required by the amended income-tax law. The various
  provisions of the law are set forth under convenient headings;
  Treasury department rulings are cited; and the interpretations and
  criticisms of the author, who is both an attorney and an accountant,
  are appended.”—J Pol Econ

  “The work will be helpful to those not familiar with the preparation
  of income tax returns, but it will not take the place of a lawyer and
  an accountant where the problems are complex. The author does not
  hesitate to uphold the law and related rulings where he deems them
  justifiable, nor to criticize where he thinks they are not what they
  should be. Most of the criticisms are well taken, but not all of them
  are expressed conservatively and judiciously.” R. G. Blakey

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:238 Jl ‘17 270w

       + =Educ R= 54:97 Je ‘17 30w

  “This book is, notwithstanding, a serviceable compilation, even though
  it hardly makes good Mr Montgomery’s hope that it will ‘answer about
  98 out of 100 anxious questions.’”

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:408 Ap ‘17 120w

  “It seems probable that the taxation of incomes will continue for a
  long period; and until it ceases, or the law authorizing it is better
  understood, this work must be indispensable in the preparation of
  returns and to save needless overpayments. Its advice is definite and
  down to date.”

       + =Lit D= 54:570 Mr 3 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:58 Ap ‘17 40w

  “Mr Montgomery’s claim to distinction is that he does not hesitate to
  try both the makers and administrator of the law by the principles
  established by the courts.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:239 Je 24 ‘17 370w

  “The author is a certified public accountant.”

         =St Louis= 15:109 Ap ‘17 7w


=MOORE, CLIFFORD HERSCHEL.= Religious thought of the Greeks from Homer
to the triumph of Christianity. *$1.75 Harvard univ. press 292 16-22750

  “This volume is in the form of lectures. Eight lectures given before
  the Lowell institute in the autumn of 1914 are combined with material
  from a course delivered at the western colleges with which Harvard
  university maintains an annual exchange. ... Beginning with Homer and
  Hesiod the development of Greek religion is traced through more than a
  thousand years to the triumph of Christianity. In addition to a
  treatment of the better known periods of classical literature, there
  are chapters on Orphism, Pythagoreanism and the mysteries, on Oriental
  religions in the western half of the Roman empire, on Christianity,
  and on Christianity and paganism.”—Am Hist R

  “It represents what, I venture to think, may properly be called the
  new humanism of classical ownership. Without attempting universality
  or completeness it offers a treatment of Greek religion which is at
  once interesting and significant. Teachers of the history of thought
  should welcome for their pupils such an excellent organization of the
  more important aspects of the subject, while classical students will
  profit by the philosophical insight with which it is treated.” W. G.
  Everett

       + =Am Hist R= 22:621 Ap ‘17 700w

         =Ath= p302 Je ‘17 120w

  “The essential lack of unity in the book and the inappropriateness of
  the title should be apparent from the chapter-headings in the table of
  contents when the book is first opened. But the reader becomes more
  convinced of these things and more regretful when he has discovered
  how ably and how successfully the author has handled his proper theme.
  The Protestant cult of the Old Testament has warped the conception of
  Christianity in the popular mind, and Professor Moore has done a real
  service in setting forth clearly and dispassionately the vast debt
  which Christianity owes to the enlightened thought of Greece and the
  West.” I. M. Linforth

     + — =Class Philol= 13:99 Ja ‘18 2650w

  “The learning exhibited in the book is solid and unimaginative, the
  style too much that of the class-room, dull but informing.”

     + — =Dial= 63:467 N 8 ‘17 220w

  Reviewed by James Moffat

       + =Hibbert J= 15:680 Jl ‘17 70w

  “From more special, technical, partial, and possibly more brilliant
  presentations the reader who seeks instruction rather than a new
  thrill may sometimes turn with relief to this lucid, sober,
  well-proportioned exposition.”

       + =Nation= 105:182 Ag 16 ‘17 230w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:13 Ja ‘17

  “The study is orderly and methodical, not perhaps brilliant or
  original, but a responsible volume, such as one can turn to with
  confidence, and a worthy and useful popularization of knowledge.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 19 ‘17 450w


=MOORE, EDWARD.= Studies in Dante, series 4. *$4.20 Oxford 851 17-19159

  “This last contribution by the late Dr Moore to the study of Dante,
  which has been seen through the press by Dr Paget Toynbee, contains
  seven studies. Four are reprinted from periodicals: three—on ‘Dante’s
  theory of creation,’ an ‘Introduction to the study of the Paradiso.’
  and ‘Sta. Lucia in the “Divina commedia”’—are now published for the
  first time. But the most important contribution, occupying nearly half
  the volume, consists in the ‘Textual criticism of the Convivio,’
  giving Dr Moore’s reasons for emendations many of which were embodied
  ‘sub silentio’ in the 1904 text of the Oxford Dante.”—The Times
  [London] Lit Sup

       + =Ath= p199 Ap ‘17 80w

  “For specialists the new and exhaustive treatise on the textual
  criticism of the ‘Convivio’—as that singular prose work should be
  called instead of ‘Convito’—will be of chief importance. More general
  interest attaches to the reprinted paper on Dante’s tomb at Ravenna.”

       + =Spec= 118:369 Mr 24 ‘17 100w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p83 F 15 ‘17 70w

  “It is twenty-one years since the ‘first series’ of Dr Moore’s
  ‘Studies in Dante’ was issued, and each member of the succession, now
  closed by the present volume, has been an important event for
  scholars.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p124 Mr 15 ‘17 1350w


=MOORE, ERNEST CARROLL.=[2] Fifty years of American education. 80c Ginn
370.9 18-2690

  The publishers issue this book as an anniversary memento of their own
  fifty years of activity in the educational field. Dr Moore sketches
  briefly the progress of education from 1867 to 1917, or from the close
  of the Civil war to the present. There are three chapters: We live in
  a period of change; Education at the end of the Civil war; Some
  changes since the Civil war. A brief bibliography, listing about
  fifteen titles, is added.

  “Professor Moore has given us a thumb-nail sketch of this golden era—a
  sketch replete with facts and figures, and serving the very definite
  purpose of letting us know just how far we have advanced in an
  important field of human endeavor.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 16 ‘18 90w

       + =School R= 26:146 F ‘18 250w

  “Dr Moore, whose work is concise and impartial, treats of the
  development of theory as well as the material progress during this
  period.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ja 17 ‘18 130w


=MOORE, GEORGE.= Confessions of a young man. Uniform ed *$1.50
Brentano’s

  “The ‘Confessions’ has long been known and liked; it is not likely to
  be forgotten. ... Mr Moore says that the book is ‘a sort of genesis;
  the seed of everything I have written since will be found therein.’
  The present edition contains some songs and ballades written in French
  that belong with the period of the book, and which are well worth
  recovering.”—N Y Times

  “There is very little that is durable about ‘The confessions of a
  young man.’ Mr Moore compares it to Rousseau. It is much more
  comparable with the work of George Sylvester Viereck. ... To improve
  with age a book should not have been written with an eye to the
  immediate audience in front. The trouble with the ‘Confessions’ is
  this preoccupation. ... About Degas and others of the Nouvelle
  Athènes, about Shelley and Gautier and Balzac and Pater, about Emma in
  the London boarding-house—George Moore continues to be engaging in
  this juvenescent book. But it remains the book of a man to whom art
  had not yet given the unity that he craved; and who did not quite
  understand or acknowledge his divided soul.” F. H.

       — =New Repub= 10:300 Ap 7 ‘17 430w

  “A 1917 person will have to overcome a strong distaste before he can
  get the good out of the ‘Confessions of a young man.’ ... Old vices
  are a thousand times worse than old virtues. George Moore had money
  and played the prodigal in Paris of the early 80’s, the Paris of
  Verlaine and Mallarmé. Homer and Chaucer are our contemporaries,
  Shakespeare belongs to yesterday, but the Paris of Verlaine and of
  Mallarmé is prehistoric.” W: E. Bohn

       — =N Y Call= p14 Je 3 ‘17 520w

  “Probably no more vivid and entertaining set of sketches, impressions,
  adventures, understandings, and realizations of life lived in an
  environment with which Mrs Grundy has nothing in common, were ever
  written. ... Naturally these books are for sophisticated readers.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:62 F 25 ‘17 250w


=MOORE, GEORGE.= Lewis Seymour and some women. Uniform ed *$1.50
Brentano’s 17-3153

  “In his preface to the new version of ‘A modern lover,’ which now
  bears the title of ‘Lewis Seymour and some women,’ Mr Moore tells how
  he did not revise this book, finding it to be, he exclaims,
  ‘jargon ... beyond hope of revision.’ Instead he rewrote it entirely,
  and the book is a new book, except for the plot, or anecdote. As Mr
  Moore describes it, ‘This anecdote was so true and beautiful that it
  carried a badly written book.’”—N Y Times

  “It is written with all the consummate art, the seeming-careless
  carefulness, the ripe humor, the power in the depiction of character
  that have made Mr Moore a master, and the delight of every reader to
  whom these great qualities appeal. The story lends itself easily to Mr
  Moore’s genius.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:62 F 25 ‘17 700w

  “Of ‘A modern lover’ it may at least be said that it possessed the
  saving grace of youth. There was spring in it. The new novel, for all
  its fluent facile writing, has not the same fire. ... We can forgive
  the one, the other is not so pleasant a spectacle.”

       — =Sat R= 123:322 Ap 7 ‘17 300w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p142 Mr 22 ‘17 180w


=MOORE, HARRY HASCALL.= Youth and the nation; a guide to service; with
an introd. by S: McCune Lindsay. il *$1.25 (4c). Macmillan 174 17-19844

  “This book is an attempt to arouse a wholesome interest among young
  men and older boys of college and high school age in modern social
  evils, to show them how men have combatted these evils and to suggest
  vocational opportunities in the warfare against them.” (Preface) In
  the October, 1917, number of the Educational Review the author, a
  professor in Reed college, presented the results of the investigation
  which led to the writing of this book. Questions put to 827 junior and
  senior high school boys brought home to him their ignorance of the
  modern problems of poverty, the social evil, and industrial unrest.
  Under the heading Enemies of the nation he discusses Disease,
  Feeblemindedness, Juvenile delinquency and crime, Commercialized
  prostitution, Child labor, Unemployment, The inequitable distribution
  of wealth, etc. As Defenders of the nation he lists the physician,
  teacher, lawyer, engineer, minister, forester, journalist, and others,
  and tells something of the lives of men who in these various fields
  have earned that title. In a final chapter the youth is called to
  action in the field of service. There is a brief selected list of
  books at the end.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:40 N ‘17

  “Five chapters, called ‘Defenders of the nation,’ contain short
  biographies of men who have achieved success in vocations. This is an
  original idea, well carried out.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 D 12 ‘17 280w

         =Cleveland= p135 D ‘17 40w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 3 ‘17 130w


=MOORE, JOHN HOWARD.= Savage survivals. il $1 Kerr 170 16-923

  “This book is an excellent presentation of the concepts of organic and
  social evolution adapted to the intelligence of children. The material
  was originally part of a series of lectures on ethics given in the
  Crane technical high school of Chicago. The important part played by
  the principle of selection among wild and domestic animals is shown,
  and the many apt illustrations of vestigial structures, vestigial
  instincts, and vestigial social forms serve to impress the young mind
  with the evolutionary concept of gradual change and continuity. The
  relatively modern idea of the vast period of prehistoric human
  evolution is well developed.”—Am J Soc

  “It is doubtful whether the pedagogical value of Morgan’s
  anthropologically obsolete nine stages of society is sufficient to
  justify its use even in a popular work which in so many respects is
  admirably scientific.” F. S. Chapin

       + =Am J Soc= 22:693 Mr ‘17 160w

         =Ind= 87:390 S 11 ‘16 50w


=MOORE, LESLIE.= Antony Gray,—gardener. *$1.50 (2c) Putnam 17-11702

  A sudden whim puts into the mind of Nicholas Danver the desire to see
  his last will and testament in operation. With the assistance of his
  friend Doctor Hilary, he becomes officially dead, and Antony Gray, his
  heir, is called home from South Africa to hear the conditions of the
  will. They are rather unusual, requiring that the young man shall live
  on the estate for one year as an undergardener. The fulfillment of
  this condition is made more difficult for Antony by the presence in
  the neighborhood of the woman he loves. At the crisis in affairs,
  Nicholas comes forward from his retirement to set matters straight.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:450 Jl ‘17

  “Charm, lightness, deft love-making, delightful descriptions of ‘the
  nice, fresh, cool, clean country’ are combined into a delicate pot
  pourri of a book.”

       + =Dial= 62:528 Je 14 ‘17 60w

  “A pleasant little story, rather nicely told, with some pretty
  descriptions of the English countryside and a delightful puppy named
  Josephus. Trix’s aunt is fairly amusing, and the tale as a whole will
  be found to provide very mild entertainment for an idle hour.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:218 Je 3 ‘17 250w

  “The opening chapters promise a lively interest, but later the story
  becomes very tame.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 220w


=MOORE, WILLIAM HENRY.= Railway nationalization and the average citizen.
*$1.35 Dutton 385 18-2686

  “Canada is seriously concerned over the position of her railways—so
  seriously that she recently invoked the services of three eminent
  experts in railway finance and operation, to make a study of the
  situation and advise as to the future. This commission by a vote of
  two to one proposed an elaborate plan involving a trusteeship which
  seems to approach closely to the substance of government ownership
  without the form. William H. Moore, a vigorous opponent of government
  ownership, feeling that the ‘average citizen’ has been misled by the
  ‘platitudinarians’ and the ‘doctrinaires,’ contributes his attempt
  towards the education of the electorate in a book entitled ‘Railway
  nationalization and the average citizen.’ He states that he has been
  in railway service during the period under review. ... His interest
  lies mainly in the history of the Canadian Northern and its
  unfortunate financial experience.”—Nation

  Reviewed by O. D. Skelton

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 12:144 F ‘18 400w

  “He has written a tract rather than a convincing, well-balanced essay.
  His arguments from foreign experience are fragmentary and
  unsatisfactory.”

       — =Nation= 105:572 N 22 ‘17 230w

  “It is written so that the average citizen can understand, if he is
  open-minded, or rather so that he cannot misunderstand unless he is
  resolute to do so.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:532 D 2 ‘17 800w


=MOOREHEAD, WARREN KING.= Stone ornaments used by Indians in the United
States and Canada. il *$3.75 Andover press, Andover, Mass. 970.6 17-6240

  “Since his boyhood days, Mr Moorehead has been an active student of
  everything pertaining to American archæology.” (Boston Transcript) In
  this book he describes “certain charm stones, gorgets, tubes, bird
  stones and problematical forms” (Sub-title), which were apparently
  used by the Indians as ornaments, amulets or charms. One chapter
  describes the author’s methods of study and classification. “There are
  nearly three hundred illustrations, an excellent index and full
  bibliography.” (Boston Transcript) “Arthur C. Parker, New York state
  archeologist, has contributed an excellent discussion, while Prof.
  Edward H. Williams, Jr., and Benjamin L. Miller have made a study of
  the problem of patina and weathering.” (N Y Times)

  “Probably every museum in this country has some specimens of these
  ornaments and to study them and collate the information about them has
  required a prodigious amount of work which has been performed in the
  scholarly fashion characteristic of the author, making this volume
  invaluable to the student of archæology. Many of the specimens are not
  readily accessible and to have them thus listed is most helpful.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 600w

       + =Dial= 63:468 N 8 ‘17 120w

         =Lit D= 54:1429 My 12 ‘17 90w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:76 My ‘17

  “Classification and minute study are Mr Moorehead’s field. As a
  collector and a statistician he is one of the finest in the
  archeological field. But when he attempts speculation, his imagination
  leads him often into strange paths. ... For one thing, however, Mr
  Moorehead deserves all praise. He has offered a complete and working
  classification for ornamental and problematical forms, illustrated by
  excellent pictures of specimens.”

   + + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 23 ‘17 500w


=MORAN, THOMAS FRANCIS.=[2] American presidents; their individualities
and their contributions to American progress. *75c (3c) Crowell 923
17-25276

  A chance remark to the effect that Theodore Roosevelt lacked the
  attributes of the “typical president of the United States” started the
  author on the inquiry that resulted in this little book. He has found
  that there is no “typical president,” and he aims to set forth the
  characteristics of each of our presidents in a way that will emphasize
  his individuality. The book consists of four chapters: From Washington
  to Jackson; From Jackson to Lincoln; From Lincoln to Wilson; The
  ethics of the presidential campaign. The author is professor of
  history and economics in Purdue university.

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:158 F ‘18 40w

  “In showing up wherein some of our greatest men have failed to measure
  up to great heights, Dr Moran has produced a readable little book. His
  judgments in some cases have gone against popular impressions and
  traditions, which is a recommendation. But he is conventional enough
  to find some good to record of all of the presidents.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 29 ‘17 470w

  “These sketches show well-balanced judgment, but they might with
  advantage have been somewhat more extended. It is impossible
  adequately to portray the character of a great political leader and
  discuss his relation to his age in a paragraph or two of comment.”

     + — =Ind= 92:193 O 27 ‘17 70w


=MORETTI, ONORIO.= Notes on training; field artillery details. il *$2
Yale univ. press 355 17-16557

  This material was prepared under the direction of Captain Robert M.
  Danford, professor of military science and tactics at Yale university,
  from notes kept by himself, Capt. E. L. Gruber, and Capt. Moretti
  while on duty as instructors in the course for non-commissioned
  officers at the School of fire for field artillery, Fort Sill,
  Oklahoma. It was designed for the immediate use of the field artillery
  unit of the Reserve officers’ training corps at Yale. The contents
  include Map reading, Military sketches, Elementary field artillery
  gunnery, Firing data records, Communication, Scouts, couriers, and
  route markers, etc. The plates, for the most part, are from drawings
  made by Sergeant Ivar W. Wahren, Field artillery, on duty as assistant
  instructor at Yale university. Captain Danford draws particular
  attention in his preface to the “Principles of fire, part 6 chapter 2”
  concerning which he states that they are “those which were enunciated
  by the School of fire as the result of the most careful and
  comprehensive statistical studies. Their importance to field artillery
  men of all grades cannot be overestimated.” The three appendixes show
  Range tables, Common errors in firing, and Problems given at the
  School of fire. The book was issued in May, 1917 and reached a second
  printing in July.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:77 D ‘17

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p15 Jl ‘17 100w


=MORGAN, JAMES MORRIS.= Recollections of a Rebel reefer. il *$3 Houghton
17-11810

  “The author was a boy midshipman when the Civil war began. The most
  interesting period of his service under the confederacy was on the
  cruiser Georgia, mate to the famous Alabama. His adventures afterwards
  in the reconstruction period and as an officer in the Egyptian service
  are told with animation and gusto.”—Outlook

         =A L A Bkl= 13:447 Jl ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 21 ‘17 1400w

         =Cleveland= p126 N ‘17 60w

  “His narrative is frank and relieved with humor, and the breadth of
  outlook it displays gives it value as a historical document.”

       + =Dial= 62:530 Je 14 ‘17 300w

  “Few men could possibly set down such a record of their activities as
  this book affords. Not every man would care to tell so freely all his
  escapades as Mr Morgan has told his. Taken as a whole, his story may
  not inspire the reader to nobler ambitions or a loftier purpose, but
  it is a positive change from the customary ‘Recollections’ and
  ‘Reminiscences’ that so many have written, and it reads almost like a
  romance.”

       + =Lit D= 55:33 S 1 ‘17 340w

  “Mr Morgan here discloses a personality as interesting as the life
  adventures which he tells so well. The exaggerated sentiment which
  mars so many of the books relating to the South of this period is
  happily absent.”

       + =Nation= 105:179 Ag 16 ‘17 700w

  “One of the best of recent books of reminiscence, because its
  narrative has spirit and a sense of humor.”

       + =Outlook= 116:33 My 2 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:526 Je ‘17 30w

         =Pratt= p45 O ‘17 40w

         =R of Rs= 55:666 Je ‘17 100w

  “Throughout Mr Morgan enlivens his book by witty anecdotes mostly
  concerning persons famous during the Civil war.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 27 ‘17 520w


=MORGAN, JAMES OSCAR.= Field crops for the cotton-belt. (Rural textbook
ser.) il *$1.75 Macmillan 633 17-2193

  In this volume, planned as a college text, the author has endeavoured
  “to present clearly and accurately the science and art of field-crop
  production in the south. As the art of crop production is based
  primarily on the sciences of botany and chemistry, the aim has been to
  give to these subjects their proper application.” (Preface) Cotton and
  corn, the two leading crops of the south, have been given first and
  most extended attention. Other crops given consideration are oats,
  wheat, rye, barley, rice, the sorghums, sugar cane and the peanut. The
  book is illustrated and provided with an index. The author is
  professor of agronomy in the Agricultural and mechanical college of
  Texas.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:11 O ‘17

         =Cleveland= p70 My ‘17 30w

  “Prof. Oscar Morgan’s contribution worthily upholds the reputation of
  the series, and is likely to be accepted as having a value
  considerably beyond the sphere of usefulness very possibly
  contemplated for it by its author. ... The book will be appreciated by
  cotton-growers throughout the world. In that light it is perhaps
  unfortunate that so much elementary science was thought necessary. The
  first principles of the physiology and chemistry of plant life might
  have been left to the lower school text-book. A glossary of terms
  would have got over any difficulty presumed to exist.”

     + — =Nature= 99:342 Je 28 ‘17 750w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:44 Mr ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:113 Ap ‘17 120w


=MORGAN, THOMAS HUNT.= Critique of the theory of evolution; lectures
delivered at Princeton university, February 24, March 1, 8, 15, 1916.
(Louis Clark Vanuxem foundation) il *$1.50 (6c) Princeton univ. press
575 16-22585

  This work by a professor of experimental zoology in Columbia
  university, is an examination of the older evidence on which the
  theory of evolution was based in the light of later evidence. In his
  preface he furnishes a synopsis of the contents of his book: “In the
  first lecture an attempt is made to put a new valuation on the
  traditional evidence for evolution. In the second lecture the most
  recent work on heredity is dealt with, for only characters that are
  inherited can become a part of the evolutionary process. In the third
  lecture the physical basis of heredity and the composition of the germ
  plasm stream are examined in the light of new observations; while in
  the fourth lecture the thesis is developed that chance variation
  combined with a property of living things to manifold themselves is
  the key note of modern evolutionary thought.”

  “Scholarly yet popular.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:384 Je ‘17

  “Very searching and illuminating exposition.”

       + =Educ R= 54:528 D ‘17 30w

       + =Ind= 90:254 My 5 ‘17 200w

  “When we look to the present summary for some statement of what
  important progress in our conception and understanding of inheritance
  is to be reported, we are reluctantly driven to the conclusion that
  what Prof. Morgan calls ‘a satisfactory solution of the traditional
  problem of heredity’ is only a restatement of the problem in terms of
  invisible ‘factors’ associated with chromosomes. The existence of such
  ‘factors’ is not a new inference, but has been a feature of theories
  of inheritance both before and since Darwin’s treatment of the
  subject.” E. R. Lankester

       * =Nature= 99:181 My 3 ‘17 1500w

  Reviewed by A. E. Watson

       + =Survey= 38:422 Ag 11 ‘17 370w

  “The illustrations are copious and very instructive, and are drawn
  very largely from flies.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p24 Ja 11 ‘17 60w

  Reviewed by Ellsworth Huntington

         =Yale R= n s 6:667 Ap ‘17 750w


=MORLEY, CHRISTOPHER DARLINGTON.= Parnassus on wheels. *$1.25 (3½c)
Doubleday 17-24508

  “R. Mifflin is the ‘Professor’s’ name, and he has built a book-van in
  which he travels over the country, selling books to farmers and their
  families, to people in small towns, wherever he can get an audience
  and interest people in the joys of literature. ... But the little
  man ... has decided that he wants to sell his ‘Parnassus on wheels,’
  and Helen McGill, housekeeper on a New England farm for her brother,
  who, from being a farmer has blossomed out into a David-graysonish
  kind of author, decides that she wants an adventure herself. So she
  buys the van and she and the ‘Professor’ ... set off together. He is
  going to ride with her for a day and show her how, and then he is
  going to Brooklyn to live for a while and write a book. The story is
  concerned almost wholly with their adventures, which are many and
  varied and entertaining.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:97 D ‘17

  “It is graceful in style, light in substance, merry in its attitude
  towards life, and entertaining in every aspect of its plot and insight
  into character. It is both a story and an essay. ... It is real, yet
  it is fantastic; it is fantastic, yet it is real. And, best of all, it
  has an original idea in it that is carried just far enough.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 26 ‘17 1400w

  “A story of quaint and spicy flavors.”

       + =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 100w

  “Mr Morley combines genuine understanding of the ‘bookish’ temperament
  with humor that is irresistible.”

       + =Dial= 63:403 O 25 ‘17 90w

  “A delightfully absurd little book, whose quaint whimsies make
  excellent reading aloud for winter evenings.”

       + =Ind= 93:241 F 9 ‘18 40w

  “A bit of true romantic comedy.”

       + =Nation= 106:118 Ja 31 ‘18 170w

  “It is a droll, engaging story, but it is so much more than just a
  droll story that one needs to read it to find out how many other kinds
  of things a droll story can be at the same time.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:360 S 23 ‘17 550w

       + =Outlook= 117:219 O 10 ‘17 60w

  Reviewed by M. A. Hopkins

       + =Pub W= 92:803 S 15 ‘17 270w

   + + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 23 ‘17 500w


=MORLEY, CHRISTOPHER DARLINGTON.= Songs for a little house. *$1.25 Doran
811 17-29993

  Bayberry candles, A charm for our new fireplace, Six weeks old,
  Reading aloud, The milkman, The cedar chest, Washing the dishes, and
  The furnace are some of the “Songs for a little house” that constitute
  the first group of poems in this book and give it its title. “A
  handful of sonnets,” and a series of poems on the war, followed by a
  group of humorous verses, “Hay fever, and other literary pollen”
  complete the volume.

  “‘Songs for a little house’ are very delightful and cheery and
  intimate; very simple, but fresh and bright and musical, in
  expression. In the other groups Mr Morley shows how versatile are his
  poetic gifts. He shows it in his themes and interests rather than in
  his style, though this has a distinction in spite of its common
  patterns that is full of charm. At trifling, in the light familiar
  vein, he is a rare performer. In the group of ‘Hay fever, and other
  literary pollen,’ he is in humorous and witty vein, quite the best of
  our younger poets who affect light verse.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 22 ‘17 730w

  “A home-book in every sense of the word. These poems of Mr Morley are
  written with a very delicate touch—simple and with an air of
  spontaneity that takes them direct to the heart.”

       + =Lit D= 55:61 D 8 ‘17 570w


=MORLEY, JOHN MORLEY, viscount.= Recollections. 2v *$7.50 (5c) Macmillan
17-29196

  This is not a work of biography, for the author does not present
  intimate details of personal life, and a chronological order is not
  followed in the arrangement of material. The chapters that compose the
  two volumes are grouped into six books: The republic of letters;
  Public life; Three years in Ireland; Policies and persons; A short
  page in imperial history; A critical landmark. A short passage from
  the introduction will serve to indicate something of the temper of the
  work: “Much of my ground obviously involves others; deeply should I
  regret if a single page were found unfair, or likely to wound just
  sensibilities. More deeply still should I deplore it, if a single page
  or phase or passing mood of mine were either to dim the lamp of
  loyalty to reason, or to dishearten earnest and persistent zeal for
  wise politics, in younger readers with their lives before them.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:128 Ja ‘18

  “His book was bound to be in some degree an apologia, and I notice
  that more than one critic has condemned its complacency. My own
  disappointment is on other grounds. I had expected a full length
  autobiography, and what we have been given is at most a torso. ...
  Perhaps politicians will welcome what I regret. Yet I cannot help
  feeling that the book would have gained if it had been a little more
  intimate, and—though it is on the borders of blasphemy to ask this
  from Lord Morley—a little more indiscreet.”

     + — =Ath= p659 D ‘17 340w

  “A book which contains a wealth of portraiture, wisdom, quiet wit, and
  what the public loves best of all—‘secret history.’ Here, assuredly,
  is both a book to praise and a man to praise.”

       + =Ath= p662 D ‘17 1300w

       + =Ath= p682 D ‘17 240w

  “For an abstract and brief chronicle of the later nineteenth century
  times in all their British aspect, the reader of the future will
  unquestionably turn to these recollections of Lord Morley.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 8 ‘17 1700w

  “Never has the intellectual beauty of the Victorian age been more
  truly and eloquently defined, ever has it been more brilliantly and
  sympathetically exemplified than by Viscount Morley’s
  ‘Recollections.’” R. M. Lovett

       + =Dial= 64:16 Ja 3 ‘18 2700w

  “One of those works that appear hardly oftener than once in a decade,
  books indispensable for all students of modern history and social
  life, and the public affairs of our own age.”

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 8 ‘17 170w

  “Writing with entire freedom of the political events in England of
  thirty years past, in which he played so worthy a part, Morley betrays
  no secrets, sets down no bitter verdicts. His serenity and restraint
  are out of the common. ... Only an occasional and incidental reference
  is made to the great struggle, and that without irritation or
  bitterness. Yet we cannot help thinking that Morley intended this work
  of his to have its significance as bearing on his attitude towards the
  war. Without directly condemning it, he sets forth the ideals of
  statesmanship which would have prevented it. It is a record of
  enlightened and consistent liberalism which he puts before his
  readers, leaving them to draw the moral.”

       + =Nation= 105:568 N 22 ‘17 1500w

  “The book is essentially a simple one. There is absent from it the
  personal, eager fling of definiteness that made de Tocqueville’s
  ‘Memoirs’ the pleasantest of arm-chair comforts. It has nothing of the
  almost dazzling splendor that made of Meredith, to whom he gives some
  shining pages, a comet across the sky. It is the revelation of life in
  its two deepest interests that Lord Morley offers—what he has known of
  literature and of politics. It is the portrait of the world as it
  dawned upon the vision of one who gave his days to thought; and
  curiosity is stilled at the deliberate reservation.” H. J. L.

       + =New Repub= 13:286 Ja 5 ‘18 2800w

  “It is not too much to say that Lord Morley does not mention one
  prominent figure of his time—scarcely one person—without giving the
  reader a living picture of the man. What he has to say of Gladstone,
  especially of the failure of his last cabinet, is as vivid as it is
  valuable. ... As a piece of writing, ‘Recollections’ is
  charming—charming in the fine, large, literal sense of holding,
  pleasing, delighting, the reader’s mind.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:489 N 25 ‘17 1650w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:804 D ‘17 120w

  “The outstanding work of its kind of the year.” Robert Lynd

       + =Pub W= 92:2028 D 8 ‘17 480w

  “Lord Morley’s style as writer and speaker has the merits of
  clearness, point and logic. It is so plain as to be, if not bald,
  certainly cold, and it is unrelieved by wit or humour.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:417 N 24 ‘17 1250w

  “His attitude has dignity, and frees the book from anything resembling
  party passion. ... Lord Morley’s book abounds in interest.”

       + =Spec= 119:568 N 17 ‘17 2500w

       + =Spec= 119:600 N 24 ‘17 2600w

  “The quotations with which the work is embellished are only such as
  could come from one who had ‘taken all knowledge for his province.’ On
  every page there is substance to delight the thoughtful reader as well
  as to instruct him, for a very high quality of charm is attained in
  this chronicle of serious persons and serious events.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 23 ‘17 3450w

  “It is a book of immense interest, stimulus, even inspiration; not one
  of companionship, still less one of equality. There is more of
  ordinary humanity in two pages of Boswell or Lockhart than in these
  two large volumes. Lord Morley is no confessor. We get no weaknesses
  here except that of a somewhat complacent quality akin to vanity,
  which contemplates all his doings with a self-assured serenity of
  approval, but without which the book would have lost some of its best
  pages.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p561 N 22 ‘17 4400w

  “In many libraries the work will have a very limited reading, but if
  possible it should be at the disposal of those few who will find in it
  food for thought and discussion and a better understanding of the
  British people and their problems.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:31 Ja ‘18 120w


=MORRIS, LLOYD R.= Celtic dawn; a survey of the renascence in Ireland,
1889-1916. *$1.50 (3c) Macmillan 820.9 17-4807

  “‘The Celtic dawn’ is a study of the several movements which, although
  having their foundation in a single consciously expressed philosophy,
  have labored in widely varied fields to produce a new social synthesis
  in contemporary Ireland.” (Foreword) As the five movements of major
  importance the author names those which have been concerned with
  literature, with the drama, with the revival of Gaelic, with economic
  and social reform, and with political thought. These are treated in
  six chapters as follows: The forces at work; Critical theories of the
  renascence; Poetry of the renascence; The drama; The novel, folk-lore,
  and other prose; Movements for social and economic reform. The last
  chapter includes a treatment of the Sinn Fein and the rebellion of
  1916.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:441 Jl ‘17

  “His survey is the best proportioned, though not in detail the most
  complete, which we have yet received. ... There are, however, a few
  particulars in which the book might be improved. ... Mr Morris has
  failed to indicate the exact problems and the position of the Catholic
  church in relation to this movement. ... But of all these faults,
  which are, after all, only minor ones, the worst is the exasperating
  absence of a usable bibliography. Mr Morris is a good critic, of that
  we have no doubt, but scarcely a thorough and exact scholar.” Elbridge
  Colby

     + — =Bellman= 22:438 Ap 21 ‘17 650w

  “Boyd’s ‘Ireland’s literary renascence’ is perhaps a better all around
  treatment, especially as the present volume is not provided with an
  index.”

         =Cleveland= p64 My ‘17 110w

  “Mr Morris is particularly happy in his characterizations of A. E.
  Synge, and James Stephens, but we miss that recent remarkable
  apparition James Joyce.”

     + — =Dial= 62:530 Je 14 ‘17 250w

       + =Ind= 90:469 Je 9 ‘17 30w

  “The last chapter is a sound and valuable piece of work and a most
  serviceable outline of the various movements in the social and
  political life of the last generation in Ireland.”

     + — =Nation= 105:74 Jl 19 ‘17 350w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:61 Ap ‘17

  “After dealing adequately with the fiction, the novel and folklore of
  the Gael, Mr Morris enters with the greatest intelligence into a
  discussion of the social and economic reforms undertaken in Ireland by
  Sir Horace Plunkett and ‘A. E.’ The guild organization inaugurated by
  Plunkett after his return from North America, and inspired by the
  agricultural banking reforms of Germany, has produced such prosperity
  and advancement in the country and village life that it may be said to
  have revolutionized Irish conditions and given new phases to the
  national political questions. ... ‘The Celtic dawn’ is a work for the
  shelves of every library that desires a statement of the latest and
  most significant movement in English literature.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:225 Je 10 ‘17 680w

         =St Louis= 15:182 Je ‘17 10w


=MORRIS, LLOYD R.=, comp. Young idea. *$1.25 (4c) Duffield 810.4
17-13546

  “An anthology of opinion concerning the spirit and aims of
  contemporary American literature.” When the plan of this book was
  formulated by the author, he sent out letters to representative
  writers among the younger generation of authors asking for opinions on
  the new movement in literature. A compilation of the replies received,
  with introductory and concluding essays by Mr Morris, make up this
  volume. Some of these replies are brief and of interest chiefly as
  expressions of personal opinion; others, of more extended length,
  constitute genuine contributions to criticism. Mr Morris has arranged
  the contents in five parts: The empiricists; The romanticists; The
  idealists; The pessimists; The traditionalists. The discussion has
  chiefly to do with the revival in poetry.

  “Good for club papers.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:441 Jl ‘17

  “The volume constitutes a criticism and interpretation of modern
  American poetry as it appears to its creators and furnishes the best
  basis for a comparative study of these poets of any book yet
  published.”

       + =Cleveland= p89 Jl ‘17 130w

  “If you examine the various credos contributed by such poets as Miss
  Lowell, Vachel Lindsay, Conrad Aiken, Louis Untermeyer, Max Eastman,
  and Miss Monroe, you will hear them all repeating in one form or
  another the conviction that what chiefly marks off our period is the
  passion for emancipation. ... But the thing that strikes one as, after
  all, strangest about these various passionate confessions of faith is
  that there should be felt to be so pressing a need to defend the
  claims of truth on our attention. ... How much more persuasive is the
  innocence of the Russian, who never thinks of apologizing for telling
  the truth and has always regarded his everyday adventure as the stuff
  out of which to fashion the most profound and strangely beautiful
  creations of the modern mind.” G: B. Donlin

         =Dial= 62:520 Je 14 ‘17 1150w

  “‘The young idea’ represents a variety of revolutionary spirits. One
  is willing to grant that most of them would prefer to revolt by
  writing verse than by telling how they do it.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p10 N 15 ‘17 260w


=MORRIS, SIR MALCOLM ALEXANDER.= Nation’s health; the stamping out of
venereal diseases. *$1.25 Funk 616.95 SG17-260

  “As a member of the Royal commission, Sir Malcolm Morris has written
  this admirable little book to drive home the lessons of the report. He
  describes, the history and nature of venereal disease, showing
  incidentally that it is more prevalent in towns than in the country.
  He lays stress on the difficulties in the way of compulsory
  notification, and still more of compulsory treatment. He regards the
  old policy of regulation, still followed on the Continent, as a
  complete failure. ... In a final chapter he says some plain words on
  the increase of the plague caused by the war and the urgent need of
  dealing with it more thoroughly.”—Spec

  “A very admirable little book, written by one who is thoroughly
  conversant with the subject and entitled to speak to the British
  public as a great authority. It would be well if copies could be seen
  in every library in the kingdom.” L. C. P.

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:460 My ‘17 40w (Reprinted from Journal of the
         Royal Sanitary Institute sup p1 Mr ‘17)

       + =Spec= 118:141 F 3 ‘17 120w

  “While it deals with conditions in England, it is almost equally
  applicable to our own situation in America, and will not only be
  useful to those who are directly interested in the public health
  problems of venereal disease, but will also be valuable to any reader
  who seeks a clear and simple statement of the facts.” J. H. Foster

       + =Survey= 39:326 D 15 ‘17 510w

  “It is written with judgment and discretion, as well as with technical
  mastery of the subject. ... Sir Malcolm Morris has a chapter on
  ‘Spreading the light,’ which we view with considerable misgiving.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p44 Ja 25 ‘17 500w


=MORRISON, EDWARD, and BRUES, CHARLES THOMAS.= How to make the garden
pay. *75c (2½c) Houghton 635 17-18831

  A manual for the intensive cultivation of home vegetable gardens
  written to tell both novices and experienced gardeners how so to
  cultivate a small area as to increase as much as possible the home
  food-supply. The authors have had experience as home gardeners and Mr
  Brues is assistant professor of economic entomology at Harvard
  university. Contents: Right planning; Profitable methods; Alphabetical
  list of vegetables with directions; Insect enemies and diseases (Those
  of the cabbage take three pages of text). The appendix gives tables
  showing the Food value of fresh vegetables and other foods and dates
  for garden-planting, also a Home gardener’s calendar for the northern
  states. The book is indexed.

       + =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 20w

  “An excellent, business-like, little handbook.”

       + =Ind= 91:110 Jl 21 ‘17 50w

  “By far the most valuable little book on vegetable gardening for the
  novice as well as the more experienced that has come under our purview
  this season.” S.

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:665 O ‘17

       + =St Louis= 15:365 O ‘17 30w

  “The garden novice can profit greatly by frequent consultation of this
  manual.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 28 ‘17 160w


=MORSE, EDWARD LELAND CLARK.= Spanish-American life; a reader for
students of modern Spanish. (Lake Spanish ser.) il *$1.25 Scott 468
17-12482

  “A reader consisting mainly of extracts from Central and South
  American newspapers. Our southern neighbors are thus made to describe
  themselves. These selections are easy, well chosen, and interesting.
  The editor has travelled much in New Spain and observed closely. His
  attitude is as sympathetic as could be desired. The annotations are
  original and refreshingly unpedantic. The copious illustrations are
  taken mostly from Mr Morse’s own photographs.”—Nation

  “No better presentation of South American civilization has yet
  appeared in textbook form.”

       + =Nation= 104:662 My 31 ‘17 90w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:694 O ‘17 30w


=MORSE, EDWARD SYLVESTER.= Japan day by day, 1877, 1878-79, 1882-83. il
*$8 Houghton 915.2 17-28348

  “Professor Edward S. Morse, the genial, ambidextrous director of the
  Peabody museum at Salem and expert curator of Japanese pottery at the
  Boston art museum, set out for Japan forty years ago for the sole
  purpose of studying brachiopods. ... The newly founded Imperial
  university of Tokio discovered this enthusiastic young fisherman hard
  at work and captured him. He was carried off triumphantly and made
  professor of zoölogy.” (Boston Transcript) He held this position
  “during a very interesting period in the early years of the
  transformation of Japan and witnessed some of the throes of the
  struggle of occidental and oriental ideals from the vantage-point of a
  government official, with an outlook from the capital city. It was,
  however, the daily life of the people, their quaint and curious and
  clever ways and devices, so different from our own, and their social
  customs and industrial methods which most interested him. ... This
  book is a narrative abstracted from his daily journal.” (Dial)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:164 F ‘18

  “It is a book of great enthusiasms and conveys a whole world of
  curious information not to be found in any guide-book.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 14 ‘17 1800w

       + =Dial= 63:591 D 6 ‘17 350w

  Reviewed by Poultney Bigelow

       + =Ind= 93:72 Ja 12 ‘18 970w

  “The present work is encyclopedic in that it furnishes concrete
  information of the most intimate and detailed character on native life
  in Japan a generation ago, yet with all the interest of personal and
  connected narrative.”

       + =Lit D= 56:34 Ja 12 ‘18 400w

  “With the multitude of thumb-nail sketches which form an integral part
  of the record, the general effect is that of a casual illustrated
  lecture—undeniably vivid in spots, but often disconcertingly abrupt in
  its transitions from subject to subject, and not infrequently naive in
  its generalizations.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:451 N 4 ‘17 1200w

  “Mr Morse writes with adequate responsibility and in a scholarly
  spirit. His book is authoritative, detailed, comprehensive; it is also
  zestful, almost ‘larky.’”

       + =No Am= 206:959 D ‘17 500w

  “A record in which the freshness of daily impression is preserved.”

       + =Outlook= 117:576 D 5 ‘17 110w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:824 D ‘17 80w

  “The unique history of this inimitable record of a traveler’s
  impressions is suggestive of nothing so much as some rare old vintage
  which has mellowed for decades in the wood before being finally
  decanted to delight the palate of a younger generation. Yet, in a work
  dealing confessedly with the social conditions of a nation in a
  transition state, one wishes that either the author himself or perhaps
  some one better informed as to present day conditions in Japan, could
  have indicated on the one hand the customs which have passed away, and
  on the other those which still endure.” Calvin Winter

     + — =Pub W= 92:1381 O 20 ‘17 750w


=MORSE, FRANCES CLARY.=[2] Furniture of the olden time. new ed il *$6
Macmillan 749 17-27766

  A new edition of a standard work that was first published in 1902.
  There are over a hundred and twenty new illustrations and a new
  chapter on “Doorways, mantels, and stairs.” There has also been added
  a glossary of terms employed by cabinet makers.

  “A new edition of a standard work that has made itself almost
  indispensable to people of taste in matters of household equipment.
  This is a book to make the reader feel proud of the workers and
  workmanship of the old days.”

       + =Outlook= 118:68 Ja 2 ‘18 60w

  “It is indispensable to the collector and has a special interest as
  well for the cabinet maker, the art student, and the student of
  domestic history.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 100w


=MORTIMER, MAUD.= Green tent in Flanders. il *$1.25 (3c) Doubleday
940.91 17-24525

  These sketches from the war zone appear to be extracts from the daily
  record of a volunteer nurse. The author is an American woman who
  served for a time as an assistant in one of the field hospitals. With
  a somewhat milder and gentler pen, she draws pictures that are not so
  different from those of Ellen LaMotte in “The backwash of war.” Parts
  of the book have appeared in Everybody’s and other magazines.

  “It is made vivid by the human touches in the glimpses of the poilus
  as they come and go and in the heroism or littleness of the nurses and
  doctors.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:54 N ‘17

  “Of all the books on the war we have yet seen, this is by far the most
  appealing because of its fine quality of style, its restrained
  handling, and the intimate, sympathetic view it gives of human nature
  under the stress of terrible events.”

       + =Cath World= 106:390 D ‘17 370w

  “The entries are fragmentary and the harrowing details of field
  hospital work continually intrude, but suffering, heroism and humor
  appeal to the author’s human side and she has the artist’s vision.”

       + =Cleveland= p1 Ja ‘18 50w

  “The wounded soldiers who pass under Miss Mortimer’s care are
  portrayed with graphic, sympathetic touch, and the numerous anecdotes
  could only have been told by an acute observer with a sense for the
  picturesque.”

       + =Dial= 64:120 Ja 31 ‘18 90w

  “All unconsciously, it would seem, she has struck an immortal chord
  vibrating thru the silence of mortality, and by it lifts her book out
  from its haunting shadows into that white light by which many may find
  faith restored and grief comforted.”

       + =Ind= 92:342 N 17 ‘17 220w

  “The artistic vision, the philosophic tendency of mind, and the quiet
  humor make it all as different from an ordinary chronicle of hospital
  service as a statue is different from a block of marble.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:463 N 11 ‘17 480w

  “The author has illustrated her own book with little pen and ink
  sketches usually but not always serving as chapter headings, and quite
  as effective as more finished pictures.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 300w


=MOSBY, JOHN SINGLETON.= Memoirs; ed. by Charles Wells Russell. il *$3
(3½c) Little 17-25282

  In every war, says the introduction, there are figures which, “through
  intrepidity, originality, and brilliancy of action” raise themselves
  above their fellows and achieve a picturesqueness that is commonly
  associated with characters in fiction. Such a figure was Colonel
  Mosby, one of the most daring of the Confederate raiders. “In the
  South his dashing exploits made him one of the great heroes of the
  ‘lost cause.’ In the North he was painted as the blackest of
  redoubtable scoundrels.” Colonel Mosby, who lived to the age of
  eighty-five, had all but completed his memoirs before his death in
  1916. These have now been edited for publication. After the war he
  became one of Grant’s personal friends, and the book closes with two
  chapters devoted to: My recollections of General Lee, and My
  recollections of General Grant.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:89 D ‘17

  “The story as Mosby has written it is full of deep interest and one,
  in the reading, soon loses sight of the fact that this is the
  narrative of one who was doing his utmost to destroy our common
  country, and becomes absorbed in the delight of the narrative and the
  vigor of the telling.” E. J. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 3 ‘17 800w

  “The narrative of the war is lucidly and interestingly written and his
  defense of General Stuart’s strategy is a valuable contribution to the
  military history of the times.”

       + =Ind= 92:56 O 6 ‘17 80w

       + =Lit D= 55:45 O 13 ‘17 400w

  “Colonel Mosby seems to have had almost as enjoyable a time in raiding
  the weak places in Lee’s inaccurate report of the Gettysburg campaign,
  in Longstreet’s Memoirs, and in the numerous biographies of Lee and
  other writings by his staff officers as he had during the war in
  descending upon the trains, camps, and cattle herds of the Union
  armies in Virginia. ... The lively narrative of Mosby’s own exploits
  sometimes fails to be sustained by other evidence.”

     + — =Nation= 106:147 F 7 ‘18 1150w

  “A very valuable addition to Civil war literature. The only adverse
  criticism that can be made is that they contain rather too many
  quotations from official reports and family letters which have but a
  faint interest to the reader of to-day.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 21 ‘17 1200w


=MOSES, MONTROSE JONAS.= American dramatist. new rev ed il *$1.75 Little
812 17-17744

  “A second edition of ‘The American dramatist,’ has been revised and
  enlarged to contain a history of the progress of the motion-picture
  industry and the advance of American drama since 1910. Mr Moses
  presents the drama largely in its sociological aspects, and his
  character sketches of dramatists have a biological trend. ... Among
  the latter is a study of Percy MacKaye and his father, Steele MacKaye.
  There is a chapter on ‘little theaters.’ ... The closing chapter
  discusses the privileges and duties of the dramatic critic.” (R of Rs)
  A “Bibliography of the American dramatist” is found on pages
  [379]-394.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:67 N ‘17

  Reviewed by Algernon Tassin

         =Bookm= 46:348 N ‘17 290w

  “The author apparently thinks that his task of ‘revision’ is fulfilled
  by covering the six years that have passed since his work originally
  appeared with a number of extra chapters here and there. He seems to
  have left his original work almost untouched, and as the later
  chapters are not specifically indicated, we are often quite unable to
  tell whether the author is looking back from 1911 or from 1917. The
  result is a good deal of muddle. ... There is about ‘The American
  dramatist’ a lack of enthusiasm, an over-critical note that suggests a
  quite undue pessimism; a scarcity of constructive criticism.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 220w

  “It is, all in all, an excellent book, yet it does not give enough
  attention to individual plays; gives too much attention to
  conventionalized ideas, and gives too little credit to ‘the movies,’
  to the little theater and to those dramatists of excellent ‘moments,’
  who by their very failures to construct model plays best exemplify the
  American drama’s real trend.”

     + — =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 70w

         =R of Rs= 56:443 O ‘17 150w


=MOSS, JAMES ALFRED.= Trench warfare. il $1.25 Banta pub. 355 17-17084

  “Major Moss ... is a member of the United States army, and bases his
  handbook on private and official British publications which set forth
  the best methods, as developed by experience, of training and
  instructing officers and men in trench warfare. The first chapter, on
  ‘Tactical fortifications,’ deals with the work of making intrenchments
  and other field fortifications; the second taking up, under the
  heading, ‘The service of the trenches,’ such matters as routine of
  duty, billeting, sanitation, the different methods of offense and
  defense, and the responsibilities of the platoon commander. Other
  chapters deal with sniping, grenades and grenadiers, gas warfare,
  bayonet fighting, machine guns, and various features of the offensive.
  A complete set of questions for every chapter adds to the value of the
  book for purposes of instruction in training camps. It is very fully
  illustrated with reproductions of photographs taken at the front.”—N Y
  Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:77 D ‘17

  “A good guide book for the soldier.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 S 5 ‘17 100w

         =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 20w

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p16 Jl ‘17 60w

  “Major Moss’s presentation of the methods of warfare that have been
  developed during the last three years is perhaps the most exhaustive
  that has been made.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:264 Jl 15 ‘17 210w

         =Pratt= p14 O ‘17 30w


=MOSS, JAMES ALFRED, and STEWART, MERCH BRADT.= Military training for
boys; intended to develop body, character and patriotism. il 50c Banta
355.07 17-16556

  This volume was prepared by two officers of the United States army,
  joint authors of “Self-helps for the citizen soldier,” for the use of
  the National school camp association. The purpose is defined as
  follows: “First, to give the boys of this country a clear idea of the
  part that military preparedness and training play in the life of a
  nation; second, to teach them some of the A.B.C.’s of military
  training; third, to make clear to the American youth that the drills
  and maneuvers of military training, while necessary, are only one
  side—the mechanical side—of the soldier’s work, and that the lessons
  of patriotism, loyalty, discipline, frugality, physical and moral
  sturdiness, self-reliance, self-control, determination and respect for
  the law, all of which enter into the training of a soldier, are
  qualities which will help them to be better citizens and more
  successful men in every walk of life, and that they may, every day of
  their lives, while training themselves for their work in life, at the
  same time, train themselves in the qualities which the soldier must
  have; fourth, to impress upon our boys the fact that in the future, as
  in the past, we must depend upon the citizenry of the country to
  defend it.” (Prefatory note)

         =St Louis= 15:359 O ‘17 30w


=MOSS, JAMES ALFRED, and STEWART, MERCH BRADT.= Our flag and its
message. *25c Lippincott 929.9 17-14035

  This little booklet is by two officers of the United States army. “In
  the compass of less than thirty pages they give the story of ‘Old
  Glory,’ explain its symbolism and present in addition the President’s
  appeal for unity at the opening of hostilities between our country and
  Germany.” (Cath World) “America” and “The Star spangled banner” are
  printed in full.

         =Boston Transcript= p16 S 26 ‘17 60w

  “One of the most attractive leaflets we have seen among the host of
  such publications the war has brought forth.”

       + =Cath World= 105:846 S ‘17 90w


=MOULTON, FOREST RAY.= Introduction to astronomy. new and rev ed il
*$2.25 Macmillan 520 16-23571

  “The necessity for a new edition has given Dr Moulton an opportunity
  to rewrite his manual, with the addition of some new material and an
  altered organization. The first chapters in the new edition deal with
  the earth and its motions, and aim in general to ‘illustrate the care
  with which scientific theories are established,’ and the chapters on
  the sun and the evolution of the solar system follow the treatment of
  the moon, planets and comets.”—Springf’d Republican

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:276 Mr ‘17

       + =Ind= 30:382 My 26 ‘17 40w

  “The popularity of Prof. Forest Ray Moulton’s ‘Introduction to
  astronomy’ is attested by the fact that there have been seven reprints
  since the first appearance of the textbook ten years ago. ... There
  are nearly 200 diagrams and photographic illustrations. Dr Moulton is
  professor of astronomy in the University of Chicago and research
  associate of the Carnegie institution of Washington.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Mr 4 ‘17 150w


=MOXCEY, MARY ELIZA.= Girlhood and character; introd. by G: A. Coe.
(Manuals of religious education for parents and teachers) *$1.50
Abingdon press 173 16-23594

  “For leaders, teachers, and parents of girls this is an analysis of
  the problems of adolescent girlhood, from the standpoints of
  physiology, psychology, and growth of character through formal and
  informal education. Divided into four parts, taking up the problem as
  the older generation sees it, early adolescence, middle, and later
  adolescence.”—A L A Bkl

  “Has been criticized as bordering on sentimentalism and attempting too
  varied a field.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:374 Je ‘17

  “The author makes clear that the moral education of the emotions
  begins not with prescribing or proscribing acts for young people, but
  in self-knowledge, reverence and control.”

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 18 ‘17 150w

  “A full bibliography of books relating to girls and women is a
  valuable addition.”

       + =Ind= 89:559 Mr 26 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:700 O ‘17 40w

  “Personal service rather than hearty cooperative endeavor becomes the
  character factor. This lack in the book is counterbalanced by the
  suggestive treatment of certain other points.” K. T.

       + =Survey= 38:289 Je 30 ‘17 200w


=MÜCKE, HELLMUTH VON.= The “Ayesha”; tr. by Helene S. White. il *$1.25
(3c) Ritter & co. 940.91 17-4203

  The landing squad of the “Emden” was sent on shore at the Keeling
  Islands to destroy a wireless station. While they were so occupied,
  the “Emden” became engaged in action, and Lieutenant von Mücke with
  his men, unable to overtake her in their small motor boat, were left
  stranded. To stay on the island meant capture by the British, and
  taking possession of a small sailing vessel, a none too seaworthy
  craft, that lay in the harbor, they made their escape. This was the
  “Ayesha.” It is interesting to note that the Englishmen on the island,
  to whom the “sporting side of the situation” made an appeal, helped
  the Germans in their departure. As an exciting narrative the tale of
  their adventures is worthy of the commendation that the translator in
  her preface and Lieutenant Klein of the United States navy in his
  foreword give it.

         =Cleveland= p71 My ‘17 80w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:57 Ap ‘17

  “It is interesting in the first place as a record of gallant and
  perilous adventure, in more ways than one a veritable wonder-voyage.
  And it is interesting as a personal narrative, for the gayety, humor,
  and briskness with which the story is told.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:263 Jl 15 ‘17 170w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:530 Je ‘17 70w

       + =St Louis= 15:134 My ‘17 10w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 13 ‘17 130w


=MÜCKE, HELLMUTH VON.= The “Emden”; tr. by Helene S. White. il *$1.25
(4c) Ritter & co. 940.91 17-13489

  Kapitänleutnant von Mücke, first officer on board the Emden, gives an
  account of that ship’s adventures in the fall of 1914. News that
  Germany was at war with Russia and France was received on August 2,
  and the Emden, then in the Indian ocean, was immediately made ready
  for action. The first chapter contains a brief and positive statement
  of the causes of the war from the German point of view, but in the
  remainder of the book the author confines himself quite strictly to
  his narrative. As he has related in “The Ayesha,” he had gone ashore
  with the landing squad at the time of the Emden’s last fight, so he
  can only describe that event as witnessed from a distance.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:89 D ‘17

       + =Ind= 91:32 Jl 7 ‘17 350w

  “If this were a primeval struggle, with no cables, wireless, or
  correspondents to keep the world informed of its minutest
  fluctuations; if only a few incidents rose out of the haze of rumor to
  stand clear in the light of fact, the Emden might then be the central
  theme of an Iliad in which its Capt. von Mücke was Achilles.
  Unfortunately the narrative, appearing as it did at about the time
  America declared war, cannot hope for as large an audience as it might
  have won in a better day.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 7 ‘17 270w


=MUIR, JOHN.= Cruise of the Corwin. il *$2.50 (5½c) Houghton 919.8
17-31765

  When the “Thomas Corwin” put out from San Francisco in 1881 in search
  of the “Jeannette,” lost somewhere in the Arctic, John Muir, already
  distinguished for his glacial studies in the Sierra Nevada and Alaska,
  was a member of the expedition. The objective of the expedition was
  Wrangell Land, then unexplored, for which it was believed De Long of
  the “Jeannette” had been headed. In the introduction to this volume it
  is stated that “so far as known, the first human beings that ever
  stood upon the shores of this island were in Captain Hooper’s landing
  party, August 12, 1881, and John Muir was of the number.” A second
  relief expedition touched on the island shortly after, but between
  that time and the wreck of Steffánsson’s flagship the “Karluk,” in
  1914, the region was unexplored. This gives to John Muir’s record a
  unique value. It was the first, and remains practically the only
  scientific account of this part of the arctic regions. A series of
  letters contributed to the San Francisco Evening Bulletin,
  supplemented with extracts from his journal, forms the basis for this
  volume. It is edited by William Frederic Badè.

  “Not as interesting as his other books to the general reader.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:164 F ‘18

  “A worthy and interesting supplement to his book of explorations in
  Alaska. ... It is by no means a dry and technical scientific treatise.
  While he observed and recorded scientific facts he was deeply
  interested in the human life around him, was keenly alive to the
  characteristics and ways of the Eskimos.” H. S. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 D 12 ‘17 600w

  “The joy he found in the voyage and its experiences is evident on
  every page of his journal or his articles. The picture he gives of
  that desolate world and of its inhabitants, of the wild seas and the
  bitter weather or the glory of the short summer, is a picture vivid
  and compelling and human. The editor has done his work excellently,
  and has contributed a valuable introduction.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:581 D 30 ‘17 1350w

  “Every admirer of John Muir and every lover of Arctic adventure will
  rejoice in this book.”

       + =Outlook= 117:654 D 19 ‘17 60w


=MUIR, RAMSAY.= Expansion of Europe; the culmination of modern history.
maps *$2 (3½c) Houghton 940.5 (Eng ed 17-15578)

  The author, who is professor of modern history in the University of
  Manchester, “surveys the origins and nature of the process by which,
  during the past four centuries, the world has been subjugated by
  European civilization; he discusses the relations of this process to
  the problems of the war, and endeavours to analyse the nature of the
  share in the work taken by the chief European peoples who have
  participated in it. The meaning and motives of imperialism are
  discussed, and the successive periods of European imperialism are
  considered in order of time: the period of ‘Iberian monopoly’; the
  period of Dutch, French, and English rivalry; the era of revolution,
  covering the severance of the American colonies from Britain, and the
  establishment of British rule in India; the period of the
  transformation of the British empire, 1815-78, and the growth of
  self-government in the colonies; the era of the world-states and the
  partition of Africa, 1878-1900; and the recent period, covering the
  campaigns in Egypt and the Sudan, the war with the Boers, and
  Germany’s ‘great challenge’ to the world.” (Ath) There are a number of
  serviceable black-and-white maps. “The essay was originally designed
  as one of a set of four, to be included under the general title ‘The
  culmination of modern history.’ Two of these have been already
  published under the title of ‘Nationalism and internationalism.’”
  (Preface)

  “While it is perfectly obvious that in any account of the expansion of
  Europe the British empire must be accorded the largest share for both
  size and achievement, the tale could have been unfolded with much less
  national self-glorification. Perhaps it might have been desirable not
  to intimate quite so strongly that ‘force and fraud’ were
  characteristics of the modes of securing colonial territory by all
  European countries except Great Britain. ... The chapter on the
  transformation of the British empire between 1815 and 1878 is easily
  the best in the book. Here the reasons for the tolerant attitude that
  Great Britain adopted toward its colonies, and notably toward those of
  the self-governing type, are summarized with much skill and cogency.”
  W: R. Shepherd

     – + =Am Hist R= 23:387 Ja ‘18 710w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:42 N ‘17

         =Ath= p366 Jl ‘17 170w

  “A simply and clearly written essay, well put together, emphasizing
  the essentials of the subject and sparing the details. ... Prof.
  Muir’s brief account of the various modern empires—French, Russian,
  American, German, as well as our own—does not really do justice to
  their characteristics. ... Even such important facts as the
  reactionary change in French colonial policy in 1892 are not
  mentioned. ... The account of Italian and American colonial
  experiments is also very perfunctory.”

     + — =Ath= p399 Ag ‘17 1150w

  “The book may be read profitably by persons who desire a rapid résumé
  of the colonial and commercial rivalries of the great powers; more
  serious students will find it of little value.”

     + — =Dial= 63:460 N 8 ‘17 280w

       — =Ind= 91:266 Ag 18 ‘17 50w

  “Professor Muir’s historical survey is sound and full, yet without any
  unnecessary multiplicity of detail; but in the last stages, where the
  great challenge to the greatest of the new composite world states, the
  British empire, is dealt with there is a polemical note, and his
  references to America throughout are acid and grudging.” M. J.

     + — =Int J Ethics= 28:295 Ja ‘18 240w

         =Lit D= 55:38 S 29 ‘17 380w

  “It is to be regretted that the facts are presented with such a blend
  of national self-glorification, of small and unnecessary boastings, of
  bland superiority to the other nations of the world. ... Professor
  Muir is both at his best and his worst in writing about his own
  country. ... It is worthy of note that Professor Muir makes an evident
  effort to be entirely just to the point of view of Germany. It is
  impossible not to feel that he does not make that effort in writing of
  America.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:290 Ag 5 ‘17 1000w

         =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 160w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:765 N ‘17 60w

  “We do not find quite the same freshness in the present work as in his
  ‘Nationalism and internationalism.’ Nevertheless the summary of the
  workings of a reasonable imperialistic spirit in ‘The expansion of
  Europe’ is a very lucid survey of the facts, and it has great
  instructive value.”

     + — =Spec= 118:37 Jl 14 ‘17 1400w

  “A scholarly and most readable essay. The point of view is
  aggressively British and the opportunity to do a patriotic bit by the
  writing has plainly appealed to the author, but this at least has not
  affected the clarity of his exposition or his excellent style.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 580w

  “The first 150 pages cover a survey of the expansion of Europe down to
  the year 1878. These are, as we should expect, well written, well
  arranged, the work of an experienced teacher and a competent
  historian; written as they could not but be, on the lines of Seeley’s
  ‘Expansion of England,’ they form a useful compendium or
  text-book. ... The chapters which deal with the events since 1878 are
  not on the level of his ordinary work. The arrangement is defective,
  there is a good deal of repetition. ... This is, we suggest, the key
  to the book; it is written too soon.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p254 My 31 ‘17 1600w


=MUIR, RAMSAY.= Nationalism and internationalism; the culmination of
modern history. *$1.25 Houghton 940.5 (Eng ed 17-11913)

  “The author’s object is to trace in broad outline the development of
  two of the most powerful factors in modern history, namely, the
  nationalist and internationalist movements.” (Ath) “He writes from the
  standpoint of one who sees a steady growth towards a reign of law in
  European relations; who believes in the necessity of organizing states
  on a national basis; and who finds in this kind of national system the
  sole basis for an international system.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

  “The author is professor of modern history in the University of
  Manchester.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:429 Jl ‘17

         =Ath= p539 N ‘16 70w

       + =Ath= p578 D ‘16 800w

       + =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 20w

  “These are not the only cases where Professor Muir obscures truth by
  his eagerness for broad conclusions. His theory of nationality, his
  interpretation of medieval cosmopolitanism are both of them brilliant
  pieces of journalism, but they are brilliant journalism only because
  they represent an unnatural simplification of complex facts. They take
  no account of exceptions, or else they regard them as easy jests.
  Professor Muir has written a book that is useful for the purposes of
  dinner-table conversation. But it is not profound enough in its
  acquaintance with the real issues at stake to be more that a skilful
  piece of political persiflage.” H. J. Laski

       — =Dial= 62:472 My 31 ‘17 530w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:77 My ‘17

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:686 O ‘17 100w

       + =Pratt= p38 O ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:154 My ‘17

       + =Spec= 117:809 D 23 ‘16 160w

  “Professor Muir’s essay does not suffer from lack of balance, but it
  is distinctly marred by an overstatement of certain tendencies and an
  understatement of others which at times give his interpretations, seen
  at a distance, the color of extreme partisanship. ... This is the more
  regrettable because Professor Muir, in the same short volume, gives
  some definitions and leading lines of thought which are of surpassing
  interest and light up whole centuries of happenings with
  understanding.” Bruno Lasker

     + — =Survey= 38:74 Ap 21 ‘17 700w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p515 O 26 ‘16 120w

  “Vigorous, eloquent, well-arranged pages. ... The book before us has,
  to begin with, one great merit. The author knows precisely what he
  wants to say, and he says it. ... It is a book which should be read by
  all who wish for a sane, virile, courageous, and clear-sighted
  interpretation of the issues of the great war.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p518 N 2 ‘16 1100w


=MUKERJEE, RADHAKAMAL.= Foundations of Indian economics; with an introd.
by Patrick Geddes. il *$3 Longmans 330

  “The author, who has been a research student of Calcutta university,
  and who has for some time been investigating the economic organization
  of modern India, collects in this volume his scattered studies, and
  provides a comprehensive and useful survey of the conditions of
  production in that part of the British empire. The book sketches the
  economic influences of the Indian system of family, caste and
  religion, presents detailed studies of the principal cottage and
  village industries, describes the rural system of trade and credit,
  and discusses the future of the organization.” (Am Econ R) Professor
  Mukerjee believes that “India’s economic salvation lies not in bodily
  taking over the industrial system of the West, but in developing and
  modernizing her own industrial system which, because it fits the
  environment, will most assure a prosperous, progressive and contented
  population.” (Ann Am Acad)

  “Will appeal to the interests of students of economic history as well
  as to those particularly concerned with the problems of modern India.”
  Clive Day

       + =Am Econ R= 7:613 S ‘17 220w

  Reviewed by G. R. Roorbach

         =Ann Am Acad= 73:237 S ‘17 330w

         =Ath= p584 D ‘16 60w

  “In order to readjust our knowledge of the Orient, books like
  Professor Mukerjee’s are extremely valuable. ... He is typical of the
  new school of Indian thinkers. ... The only defect in his book is the
  absence of a glossary for native names and expressions.” W. G.
  Tinckom-Fernandez

       + =Dial= 63:203 S 13 ‘17 1150w

  “Professor Mukerjee has performed a great service in taking stock of
  the vestigial remains of India’s ancient economies as they survive
  to-day in the traditional arts and crafts preserved by the universal
  caste and guild systems. He is at considerable pains to show the
  effect of western institutions on these survivals. ... Most
  illuminating is the careful description and illustration of the
  various hereditary trades and their processes of production and
  distribution.”

       + =Nation= 105:99 Jl 26 ‘17 400w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:24 F ‘17

  “The importance of Professor Mukerjee’s work lies in his ideas and
  proposals. ... The book is marred by the writer’s limitation of
  view. ... The great questions of protection (as against free imports),
  labour, and capital should have been more fully discussed. ... But his
  work will repay perusal to those concerned with Indian economics, as
  showing the views of an educated Indian, which many compatriots
  possibly share.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p583 D 7 ‘16 820w


=MULLER, ROBERT ENRIQUE.= United States navy. il $1 Rand 359 17-13461

  “One hundred and forty-three reproductions of our superdreadnoughts,
  dreadnoughts, battleships, armored cruisers, and submarines, and life
  aboard them; also the work of laying mines, discharging torpedoes,
  etc. ... Rear Admiral Bradley A. Fiske furnishes a foreword.”—Wis Lib
  Bul

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:89 Je ‘17

  “A convenient book for boys interested in the navy and those enlisting
  in its service.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:182 Je ‘17 50w


=MUNDAY, ALBERT H.= Eyes of the army and navy; practical aviation. il
*$1.50 Harper 623.7 17-29812

  A handbook on aviation. The author is a flight-lieutenant in the Royal
  naval air service, and his book is planned “to meet the requirements
  of the layman with a moderate education who wished to obtain a
  practical knowledge of flying and the fundamental principles of
  construction, aero-engines, and various other aeronautical subjects.”
  (Foreword) Contents: Aerial navigation; Theory of flight; Map-reading;
  Cross-country flying; Charts; Meteorology; Construction; The care and
  maintenance of aeroplanes; Aero engines; Aeroplane and airship
  instruments; Wireless telegraphy and semaphore; Aerial photography;
  Bombs and bomb-dropping; Night flying; Artillery observations from
  aircraft; Aerial fighting; Lighter than air; Medical supervision of
  aviators. An appendix gives definitions of terms and tables for the
  metric system.

         =Pittsburgh= 22:814 D ‘17 20w


=MUNDY, TALBOT.=[2] Winds of the world. il *$1.50 Bobbs 17-30041

  “Here, by the author of ‘King, of the Khyber Rifles,’ a man who knows
  his India well, is a hair-raising tale of adventure, intrigue, peril,
  uncertainty, that centres in the loyalty of an Indian regiment and the
  failure of German ‘diplomacy.’ The chief of characters in the book are
  three: Kirby, the English colonel of a Sikh regiment; Risaldar-Major
  Ranjoor-Singh, whom Kirby trusts as he trusts himself; and Yasmini the
  dancer, to whom the winds of the world have whispered their
  secrets. ... With these three as chief characters, and a group of
  German ‘merchants’ weaving their web of plottings, the story runs its
  exciting course.”—N Y Times

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 12 ‘18 170w

  “Kirby and the dancer the author has drawn in a conventional fashion,
  winning the reader’s attention by obvious means enough. But
  Ranjoor-Singh’s capture of our sympathy is more subtle; it is, as a
  piece of work, the best thing in the book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:555 D 16 ‘17 320w

  “There is abundant mystery and adventure in this lively tale, and the
  reader’s pleasure and entertainment is enhanced by the author’s
  humor.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 260w


=MURDOCH, W. G. BURN.= Modern whaling and bear hunting. il *$5
Lippincott 639

  “In 1892 Mr Burn Murdoch took part in a whaling expedition to the
  Weddell sea in Antarctica. He went as an artist, but became so
  attracted by the fascinations of whale-fishing that he formed a small
  company, fitted out a motor-driven whaler in Norway—the ‘St Ebba’—and,
  accompanied by a Norse crew, ranged over northern and southern seas in
  pursuit of the dangerous but highly profitable Finner. This book tells
  us how he fared.”—Spec

  “This is a story of actual adventure, even more vigorous and
  entertaining than any fiction could be. More than a hundred
  illustrations from drawings and photographs add greatly to the value
  and interest of the book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 250w

  “The interesting personality of Mr Burn Murdoch is a welcome
  embellishment to the subject-matter of his book. On the practical side
  he is a genuine whaler, in the business for the profit which it
  offers, with a keen eye for efficient methods in its prosecution, and
  yet with that larger outlook that would have his own success only an
  element in the success of all. But he has also in his make-up a
  well-developed aesthetic element which finds in the sea something more
  than the whales which are to fill his oil vessels and thereby fatten
  his bank account.”

       + =Nation= 105:669 D 13 ‘17 900w

         =R of Rs= 56:552 N ‘17 90w

  “Mr Burn Murdoch’s descriptions are always effective, because of their
  simplicity and sincerity. His English is sometimes shaky, but we never
  fail to grasp his meaning. There could be no greater refreshment to
  the war-weary mind than the perusal of this book.”

       + =Spec= 119:526 N 10 ‘17 1650w

  “Mr Burn Murdoch is by no means so easy to read as he well might be if
  he had taken a good model—say, for instance, Darwin’s ‘Cruise of the
  Beagle.’ It is a pity, because he knows his subject, which is good.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p622 D 13 ‘17 900w


=MURPHY, CHARLES JOSEPH.=[2] American Indian corn (maize); a cheap,
wholesome, and nutritious food; rev. and ed. with additions of many new
recipes and a foreword by Jeannette Young Norton. *75c Putnam 641.5
17-23804

  “The data, gathered by Mr Murphy, formerly food commissioner of
  Nebraska, is even more valuable today when it was collected for the
  illumination of the great food convention, held in Paris in 1889. ...
  This edition holds many new recipes. And besides those for general use
  is a series suitable for invalids. Prefacing these rules for the
  making of ‘the very best foods’ from Indian corn is a brief history of
  its growth and use.”—Boston Transcript

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:156 F ‘18

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 26 ‘17 330w

         =Ind= 92:344 N 17 ‘17 80w


=MURPHY, THOMAS DOWLER.= Oregon, the picturesque. (See America first
ser.) il *$3.50 Page 917.95 17-28901

  The sub-title calls this book a “book of rambles in the Oregon country
  and in the wilds of northern California; descriptive sketches and
  pictures of Crater and Klamath lakes, the Deschutes river canyon, the
  new Columbia highway, the Willamette and Rogue river valleys and the
  cities and towns of Oregon; also of the little-known lakes, rivers,
  mountains, and vast forests of northern California, to which is added
  a trip to the Yosemite and to the Roosevelt dam and the petrified
  forest of Arizona, by motor car.” (Library of Congress card)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:164 F ‘18

  “In addition to Mr Murphy’s text the reader has a map before him for
  guidance and a series of half-tone illustrations to justify the
  author’s enthusiasm over the scenic wonders he visits.” A. A. R.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 21 ‘17 900w

  “The author fails to invest the open road with the charm that it has
  in this region, while his portrayal of the major scenic marvels lacks
  the power of conveying even a modicum of the reactions produced by the
  originals.”

     + — =Dial= 64:71 Ja 17 ‘18 590w

         =Outlook= 117:519 N 28 ‘17 50w


=MURRAY, ARTHUR MORDAUNT.= Fortnightly history of the war. maps *$3
Stokes 940.91 (Eng ed 17-16101)

  “Not many serial criticisms of the war are worth republication, for
  most criticisms offered in reviews and newspapers fall out of date as
  information accumulates. Colonel A. M. Murray’s history of the war
  written month by month in the Fortnightly Review is, however, a
  distinct exception. It is true that he has amended and amplified his
  remarks, but in substance they remain. ... Sir Evelyn Wood in a short
  introduction expresses his admiration, and also his dissent on certain
  points.” (Spec) “The present volume takes us from the beginning of the
  war down to July 18, 1916.” (New Repub)

  “The outstanding feature of this voluminous work is its really
  splendid set of seventy maps that illustrate, with a scrupulous
  detail, the campaigns and the battles in Europe, Asia and Africa.
  Colonel Murray writes with a soldierly regard of strategy and tactics.
  To our mind the French defence of Verdun and the antecedent
  epoch-making battle of the Marne deserve more analysis than he
  grants.” S. A.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 D 29 ‘17 420w

  “Colonel Murray has written an accurate, terse and shrewdly perceptive
  military history of the war during its first two bloody years.”

       + =New Repub= 13:156 D 8 ‘17 210w

  “A very clear military exposition of events.”

       + =Spec= 118:239 F 24 ‘17 190w

  “As it stands, it is, perhaps, more valuable as a history of the
  evolution of expert opinion than as a ‘précis’ of the military
  operations. The account of the operations of the Belgian army is very
  vague: and there are some notable omissions.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p580 D 7 ‘16 880w


=MURRAY, GILBERT.= Faith, war, and policy. *$1.25 (1c) Houghton 940.91
17-23769

  These thirteen essays show the reaction of the mind of “a fairly
  representative English Liberal, standing just outside the circle of
  official politics” to the European war. “Beginning with ‘First
  thoughts on the war,’ an article printed in October, 1914, [in the
  Hibbert Journal] they come down through the three years of war, taking
  up various questions concerning it, and end with an address delivered
  March, 1917, before the Fight for right league on ‘The turmoil of
  war.’ Included is a section on ‘Ireland,’ in three parts, one on the
  Dublin insurrection, one on the execution of Casement, and a
  consideration of the future of Ireland written the middle of last
  March. Two of the papers deal with America in her relation to the war
  and to England, both of them preceding our entrance into the
  conflict.” (N Y Times) Several of the essays were first printed in the
  Atlantic Monthly, Contemporary Review, Westminster Gazette, etc. The
  essay entitled “How can war ever be right” was printed as Oxford
  pamphlet no. 18.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:89 D ‘17

  Reviewed by C. H. P. Thurston

       + =Bookm= 46:289 N ‘17 100w

  “Professor Murray’s book affords a wise and statesmanlike view of
  complicated problems, and not the least of its merits is the temperate
  spirit with which these problems are discussed.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:266 N ‘17 490w

       + =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 40w

  “What stands out most sharply and incongruously in the book is
  Professor Murray’s complaisance in transferring the problems raised by
  the war to the shoulders of those very diplomats and statesmen whose
  inadequacy is sufficiently demonstrated by the present débâcle. In
  discussing the British foreign office, Professor Murray adopts a tone
  which is nothing less than smug. This fatal complacency extends to
  everything British.”

     – + =Dial= 64:30 Ja 3 ‘18 390w

  “One of the most persuasive defenses of British foreign policy ever
  written. ... Gilbert Murray not only performs perfectly the easy task
  of showing the manifold fallacies of non-resistant pacifism but
  courageously ventures to discuss the most questionable phases of his
  case, such as the suppression of the Dublin revolt, British
  interference with neutral trade, and the secret diplomacy of the
  British foreign office.”

       + =Ind= 91:512 S 29 ‘17 210w

  “The sentiments of these utterances should get before the minds of all
  of us Americans, and in particular into the minds of those
  incomprehensibles who talk of ‘those blood-thirsty Europeans’ who will
  not compromise, or declare that none of the warring nations know what
  they are fighting about.”

       + =Nation= 105:408 O 11 ‘17 500w

  “There is a Gilbert Murray writing in this volume who fulfills a high
  expectation. ... There are flashes throughout these pages of a
  personal intensity of experience. ... But his propaganda is not
  altogether a pleasant thing to contemplate. ... It is difficult not to
  be continually reminded in this volume of the poorer sorts of
  patriotism that make the chauvinist and the jingo. ... Mr Murray beats
  the German dog with the stick of self-righteousness, failing
  altogether to account for the less immediate and less nationalistic
  issues that now are emerging through the conflict, and that propose a
  revision of the whole structure of monarchical Europe rather than the
  redemption of the status quo from the nationalistic collision.” F. H.

     – + =New Repub= 12:138 S 1 ‘17 2000w

  “It is not that the matter is not informative; its lack of backbone,
  its inconclusiveness is the most striking feature. In almost
  everything, this Liberal ‘Sir Roger de Coverley’ tells us that ‘much
  can be said on both sides,’ and to do him justice, he says it, and
  says it particularly well.” J. W.

     – + =N Y Call= p14 S 23 ‘17 700w

         =N Y Times= 22:344 S 16 ‘17 560w

  “Although many of the papers contained in this volume were written so
  early in the war as to have lost the appeal of timeliness, there is in
  the views expressed a permanent rightness that gives the book lasting
  importance.”

       + =No Am= 206:793 N ‘17 720w

  “Especially to be commended to students of ethical aspects of the
  war.”

       + =Outlook= 117:309 O 24 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:682 O ‘17 80w

  “It was a little unfortunate that Gilbert Murray’s ‘Faith, war and
  policy’ should fall into the hands of an anti-English reviewer in the
  New Republic and an anti-Russian reviewer in the Evening Post. For
  their assaults on the book were not quite without prejudice. They
  hardly did justice to Prof. Murray’s fundamental liberalism. Yet for
  their irritation there is some excuse. Prof. Murray does claim a good
  deal for his country. ... He is too ready to put to the back of his
  mind a less liberal and lofty England, not many years in the past, and
  by no means suppressed in the present. ... Not all that he has to say
  about America will be pleasing to American readers. ... There is in
  the book much fine feeling and brilliant writing; though, as a whole,
  it is not above the status of controversial, perhaps one may even say,
  propagandist literature, however much it may be above the average
  level of that literature.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 19 ‘17 860w

  “The finest testimony, perhaps, to the worth of the author’s political
  and moral philosophy is the fact that there is no great contrast
  between his reaction to war at the beginning and that after three
  years of it.” Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 38:573 S 29 ‘17 550w


=MUSPRATT, EDMUND KNOWLES.= My life and work. il *$2.50 (3c) Lane
17-3731

  These memoirs cover a long period of time, the author having been born
  in 1833. He is the son of a manufacturing chemist of Liverpool and he
  has been closely associated with the public life of that city. As a
  young man he was sent to Germany to study with Liebig, and his German
  experiences and friendships are the subject of the early chapters. He
  visited the United States in the year of the centennial and devotes an
  interesting chapter to his impressions. Other chapters are concerned
  with travels on the Continent and with the men and women of note he
  has known.

       + =Ath= p238 My ‘17 1100w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 3 ‘17 850w

  “We gain a vivid impression of German university life and of the
  condition of German society in the early fifties of last century. It
  is not without its lights and shades. ... The book is written in a
  simple, unaffected manner, with no pretensions to literary style.” T.
  E. Thorpe

       + =Nature= 98:325 D 28 ‘16 1000w

       + =R of Rs= 56:328 S ‘17 60w

  “Mr Muspratt is well known in Liverpool as a good citizen, with a keen
  interest in higher education, art, and other worthy causes. He is
  known more widely as a strong Liberal and Free Trader, and rendered
  much service to his party in the past by his ‘Financial reform
  almanack.’ At the age of eighty-three, he has written his
  reminiscences of a happy life, with notes on his travels, and his many
  friends will find the book interesting.”

       + =Spec= 117:774 D 16 ‘16 70w

  “A book with something on every page to interest the humane
  reader. ... In these pages we hear of persons whom literature has made
  famous in the guise of fiction.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 18 ‘17 950w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p550 N 16 ‘16 230w


=MUSSON, BENNET.= Turn to the right. *$1.35 (3½c) Duffield 17-18357

  A novelized version of the play by Winchell Smith and John E. Hazzard
  that had so great a run in New York last year. Without letting his
  widowed mother know, Joe Bascom had served time in Ossining for
  another’s guilt. Free again, but penniless, he arrives home to find
  his mother well caught in a snare spread for her by a respected deacon
  of the town. The deacon’s hold on her is thru a debt of a hundred and
  twenty-five dollars which Joe is trying desperately to raise when two
  fellow prisoners drop down upon him. They learn of Joe’s plight, make
  a journey to the deacon’s grocery, take the needed money from the
  safe, and give it to Joe without explaining the manner of getting. The
  deacon is paid, but the pals relieve him of the sum and put it back
  into his safe. One humorous situation follows another. On the serious
  side, the deacon’s plans are foiled, the pals “turn to the right,” a
  way is found for the mother to make her peach orchard pay handsomely,
  and there is more than the ordinary amount of marrying and living
  happily forever after.

  “The transposition into book form of even the finest play is seldom
  successful. And the drama from which this novel was written was not of
  the class mentioned, no matter how ‘successful,’ may have been its
  run. The combined result is obvious.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 300w

  “The little tale is of a somewhat sugary quality, but in justice to Mr
  Musson, the novelizer, it must be said that he has done his work
  nicely, and that the superabundance of sweetness in the whole is no
  fault of his. The plot has some dexterous twists which enable it to
  hold the reader’s interest.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:286 Ag 5 ‘17 210w

  “The transformation is done with greater care and skill than is
  generally found in work of this order. The story is sentimental, but
  contains enough colloquial humor to palliate the other element.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 140w


=MUTZENBERG, CHARLES GUSTAVUS.= Kentucky’s famous feuds and tragedies;
authentic history of the world renowned vendettas of the dark and bloody
ground. *$1.25 (2½c) Fenno 976.9 17-18067

  The author has been at pains to discover the truth about some of the
  famous Kentucky feuds and to separate legend from authentic history.
  His investigations have led him to the conclusion that these long
  standing and tragic feuds have had their origin primarily in the
  failure of legal machinery. In addition to inefficient and corrupt
  officials, the lack of healthy moral sentiment, of proper education
  and religious training and the illicit trade in whisky are named as
  contributing causes. The clannish spirit of the mountaineers is
  accounted for by the fact of their descent from the highland clans of
  Scotland.

  “His viewpoint is of course all very well if you care to look at
  everything from a restrictedly moral eminence. Few people who know the
  mountains probably will care for it, for it is strongly
  misrepresentative.” R. M.

       — =Boston Transcript= p7 My 16 ‘17 550w

  “Kentucky’s feuds are, in any large sense, over. ... Their history
  illuminates the character of the present-day ‘citizen’; it does not
  afford justifiable grounds for a polemic against his ancestors who
  made their own law and abode by it.”

         =Dial= 63:352 O 11 ‘17 140w

  “As a literary product, this volume has little to commend it. A
  needless multiplicity of detail, doubtless intended to give it weight
  as an indictment, swells it to burdensome proportions.”

       — =Nation= 105:318 S 20 ‘17 850w

  “While undoubtedly true in every particular, Mr Mutzenberg’s book in
  some places reminds one of a dime novel. It is a long record of
  lawless crimes, murders and outrages. Such a condition of affairs has
  almost passed away, and, it is to be hoped, will never return.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 29 ‘17 320w


=MYERS, GUSTAVUS.= History of Tammany Hall. 2d ed rev and enl *$2.50
Boni & Liveright 363 17-31564

  “A history of Tammany Hall has long been wanted. There had been one,
  and only one, that we know of, issued some sixteen years ago. For the
  last few years it has been practically impossible to procure a copy,
  which gives color to the belief that the volume has been undergoing a
  quiet but effective suppression. At any rate, copies were always held
  at a high premium. But now the same work has been issued in a second
  edition, and the history brought down to the present day. ... The
  matter which was added to the work since its first appearance sixteen
  years ago is unusually full and complete.”—N Y Call

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:157 F ‘18 90w

  “His book should be as useful to the college student of political
  science as to the voter.”

       + =Ind= 92:193 O 27 ‘17 100w

  “The book is not a homily, but a sober recital of cold facts, which it
  behooves every one who would retain his faith in popular government to
  ponder deeply.”

     + — =Nation= 105:640 D 6 ‘17 480w

  “Where the course of the organization became particularly spectacular,
  as under the leadership of ‘Boss’ Tweed, Croker, Murphy and others,
  the narrative is particularly copious, but eminently fair as a recital
  of fact. ... It is not a recital of ‘original sin’ or ‘inherent
  depravity,’ though most of the acts chronicled will of course bear
  that bourgeois interpretation. What we can perceive is the workings of
  ‘economic determinism,’ the constant struggles of an organization to
  adapt itself to its environment.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p15 N 4 ‘17 1700w

  “Mr Myers, not being a politician, has gone at his job like a
  historian. He has gone to his sources, old newspapers, city hall
  records, not forgetting criminal court minutes, with no more partisan
  passion than would be expected of a man getting ready to write a
  history of the dynasty that built the pyramids.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 4 ‘17 1950w




                                   N


=NADAL, EHRMAN SYME.= Virginian village, and other papers; together with
some autobiographical notes. *$1.75 (2c) Macmillan 814 17-7187

  The author has collected a number of papers and essays originally
  contributed to magazines. The one from which the book takes its title,
  “A Virginian mountain village,” appeared in Scribner’s Magazine in
  1909. At the request of the publishers he has prefaced the whole with
  some autobiographical notes. “They say the book represents me as being
  in so many places and doing so many things that the effect upon the
  reader is confusing,” he explains. This autobiographical sketch,
  discursive and enriched with anecdotes, forms a pleasant introduction
  to the papers that follow. Among these are: Southern literature; A
  horse-fair pilgrimage; Impressions of Lincoln; Impressions of Lowell;
  Contrasts of English and American scenery; Cumberland Gap; Lincoln and
  Stanton; Virginia women.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:343 My ‘17

  “Although so very much has been written of Lincoln, it still remains
  true that the impressions of Lincoln incorporated into this book are
  likely to be read with more interest than almost any of the other
  pages. Mr Nadal’s style is interesting and he presents his impressions
  so well that they are likely to be remembered.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 7 ‘17 400w

       + =Lit D= 54:1084 Ap 14 ‘17 1000w

  “Seldom indeed does one pick up a more seductive volume for an idle
  hour.”

       + =Nation= 104:603 My 17 ‘17 270w

  “He laments that he spent so much of his youth sitting on a fence-rail
  looking at the landscape, but this occupation seems to have borne its
  literary fruit: he has a genial responsiveness to the moods of nature.
  Then he has humor, and what is even more essential to an essayist, a
  keen observation of men and manners which expresses itself in both
  portraiture and social analysis. The chapters that analyze southern
  society and literature are particularly interesting.” E. S. S.

       + =New Repub= 12:81 Ag 18 ‘17 1000w

       + =N Y Times= 22:137 Ap 15 ‘17 520w

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 40w

       + =Pratt= p37 O ‘17 30w

  “These papers of Mr Nadal’s have appeared in leading American
  magazines and newspapers, but are well worth reprinting. They make a
  charming, readable and informing volume.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Mr 4 ‘17 1050w

  “A variety of reminiscent sketches, some of them charming in
  themselves, others of general interest. The author, though a Virginian
  born and bred, as a cosmopolitan of the outer world sees the South as
  it really was and is.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p391 Ag 16 ‘17 900w


=NAIDU, SAROJINI.= Broken wing; songs of love, death and destiny,
1915-1916. *$1.25 Lane 891.4 17-6890

  “The bird of time” and “The golden threshold,” two earlier books of
  verse, have introduced this Hindu woman poet to western readers. The
  third volume is made up of poems grouped together as Songs of life and
  death, Memorial verses, The flowering year, The peacock-lute: songs
  for music, and The temple: a pilgrimage of love.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:343 My ‘17

  “As a whole the volume shows that the Indian woman of to-day is
  conscious how large her share is destined to be in the guardianship
  and interpretation of the triune vision of love, faith, and
  patriotism.”

       + =Ath= p201 Ap ‘17 90w

  “If we seek the material India in her verses we shall find it as truly
  as we do the India of the spirit. ... Her love songs are delicately
  beautiful. The rhythms are western, but the spirit is all of the east,
  a spirit of tropical intensities, mingling with brooding certainty of
  eternal things which is so truly eastern.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 12 ‘17 800w

       + =Cleveland= p65 My ‘17 130w

       + =Lit D= 54:1071 Ap 14 ‘17 480w

  “Songs of love, death, and destiny. They are saturated with the magic
  of the East, exquisite in verbal beauty and eloquent with spiritual
  comprehension.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:438 Ap ‘17 80w

  “It is the fourth division of Mrs Naidu’s book, her love songs, which
  perhaps best illustrates the difference between occidental and eastern
  verse. In these love songs she permits herself an abandonment that is
  truly oriental, and that to an Anglo-Saxon reader contrasts rather
  unpleasantly with the elevation of thought and charm of such poems as
  Mrs Browning’s ‘Sonnets from the Portuguese.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 8 ‘17 450w


=NANDIKESVARA.= Mirror of gesture; tr. by Ananda Coomaraswamy and G. K.
Duggirala. il *$1.50 Harvard univ. press 792

  “This translation is based upon a Nagari transcript of the second
  Telugu edition of Nandikesvara’s ‘Abhinaya darpana.’ ... Among the
  gestures dealt with are movements of the head, the brows, and the
  hands. The last-named receive elaborate treatment. Numerous
  illustrations and a bibliography follow the text.”—Ath

  “Will be useful as an introduction to Indian dramatic technique and to
  oriental acting in general.”

       + =Ath= p411 Ag ‘17 90w

         =Dial= 62:532 Je 14 ‘17 360w

  “The little book is dedicated ‘to all actors and actresses,’ but it
  will interest as well (or more) all students of the drama.”

       + =Nation= 104:716 Je 14 ‘17 570w

  “Easy, graceful English. ... The translator would have helped us more
  if he had done two things, if he had supplied an index, and had
  commented on some one complete picture.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p199 Ap 26 ‘17 1100w


=NATHAN, GEORGE JEAN.= Mr George Jean Nathan presents. *$1.50 (2½c)
Knopf 792 17-24680

  A collection of papers on the theater. Mr Nathan is a dramatic critic
  in New York city, and plays recently produced on the New York stage
  give him the starting point for discursions on the art of the theater,
  play making and producing, the shortcomings of American audiences,
  etc. He is a very sophisticated person, with a cynical outlook and not
  much hope for the future of American drama, but for much of the sham
  and sentimentality of current theatrical production he offers an
  effective antidote. He writes of The Hawkshavian drama; The American
  music show; The commercial theatrical mismanager; The case for bad
  manners; America’s most intellectual actress, etc.

  “A volume as gay and impudent as its title.” Algernon Tassin

       + =Bookm= 46:348 N ‘17 320w

  “A man cannot live—live exclusively and consciously—in a realm of
  unworthy make-believe without suffering for it; and Mr George Jean
  Nathan, in some of his phases, is calculated to cause regrets. He
  opens up some wonderful, sudden vistas for the playgoer, and shoots a
  number of penetrating epigrams; but his taste and discretion are not
  equal to his brilliancy.”

     – + =Dial= 63:457 N 8 ‘17 340w

  “This is a book of serious criticism of the New York theatre. Mr
  Nathan is self-possessed, cynical, urbane, smart and sometimes
  flippant. He confounds one with his knowledge of the drama of the
  United States, Great Britain, France and Germany. He gives us facts
  running over. He loves to shatter legends. His book is refreshingly
  honest because refreshingly severe.”

       + =New Repub= 13:387 Ja 26 ‘18 230w

       — =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 21 ‘17 230w


National year book, 1917. maps 50c Hammond & co. 317.3

  “A book of facts, figures and general information, together with a new
  and complete gazetteer of the United States and non-contiguous
  territories.” The book contains nearly 150 pages of useful information
  on miscellaneous subjects, with many statistical tables, maps, etc.

         =Pittsburgh= 22:430 My ‘17


=NAUMANN, FRIEDRICH.= Central Europe; a tr. by Christabel M. Meredith
from the original German. *$3 Knopf 327 17-8207

  A translation of “Mittel-Europa,” a German work outlining a plan for a
  permanent union of the Central European nations. “The nucleus of the
  organization is to consist of the German empire and Austria-Hungary.
  To this nucleus will be added the Balkans, Turkey, and the present
  neutral states to the north of the empire. Thus a combination will be
  effected that comprises a great stretch of territory through the heart
  of Europe, binding the members together with ties of common interest.
  At the same time the enemies of the empire will be separated. The
  major part of the book is taken up with discussion of the difficulties
  in the way of a union of the empire and the dual monarchy. The author
  realizes that the sovereignty of each state must be preserved; and
  that that may be done, works out a scheme of joint commissions which
  shall carry out the wishes of the several governments. The tariff
  problem is recognized also.” (J Pol Econ)

       + =Am Econ R= 7:113 Mr ‘17 130w

  “Important because it expresses imperial Germany’s political and
  economic claims with fervid enthusiasm, but with authority. Classed
  bibliography (17p.) of German and Austro-Hungarian books designed to
  further a mutual understanding: does not list translations.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:347 My ‘17

  “The author, who is well known on the continent for various earlier
  books on political questions began his career as a Lutheran pastor and
  evangelist of socialism. He sprang into notice through several
  publications of radical propaganda, and entered journalism and
  politics. In the Reichstag, under the wing of the Liberal Socialist
  party, he has been long an exponent of Christian socialism and the
  world-wide mission of German kultur. In the present instance, Naumann
  does not view the war with the optimism of the German-American press.
  For him it is a cause of reflection.” R. W.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 17 ‘17 800w

         =Cleveland= p58 Ap ‘17 70w

  “His book, which has had the good fortune of finding a translator
  whose version reads like an English original, is indispensable to all
  who would form a concrete idea of the present working of the German
  mind, and it is a mine of information for everyone who wishes to gain
  an insight into the intricate problems of German economics and
  politics at the hand of a guide who has them at his fingers’ ends, and
  who is imbued with a living knowledge of German history.” Vindex

       + =Dial= 62:390 My 3 ‘17 2000w

  “It should be read by all who want to see for themselves, rather than
  thru enemy glasses, just what Germany is striving for.”

       + =Ind= 90:592 Je 30 ‘17 1600w

  “All the oratory and the enthusiasm that have marked his rise to his
  present position as one of the most-read political authors of Germany
  today have been brought by Herr Naumann to his present task.”

         =J Pol Econ= 25:213 F ‘17 300w

  “As a ‘formulation of current German thought’ the volume deserves the
  closest reading. And that reading will, by the way, illumine one of
  the Allies’ exprest conditions of peace—the partition of the Dual
  empire.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1430 My 12 ‘17 260w

  “His book is really a long pamphlet summoning the people of middle
  Europe to union. It is argumentative, amiable, painfully tactful,
  shrewd, sentimental. It is skilful journalism, wheedling, exhorting,
  threatening, appealing to pride, to vanity, to historical tradition,
  to economic interest, to fear, to ambition. ... Naumann’s real effort
  is to establish the idea, rather than to solve the problem. ... The
  lesson for those of us who are, I think, justly suspicious of the
  mid-European project is fairly evident. Its most powerful support is
  external pressure. The more Central Europe is isolated and boycotted
  the easier will it be to create Mid-Europe.” W. L.

         =New Repub= 9:357 Ja 27 ‘17 2650w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:15 Ja ‘17

         =N Y Times= 22:80 Mr 4 ‘17 450w

  “It must be remembered that the economic questions inherent in the
  doctrine of ‘Central Europe’ come up automatically for some sort of
  settlement at the end of this year. Then the commercial treaties, not
  only between Germany and Austria-Hungary, but between Austria and
  Hungary, will lapse, and if there should merely be a continuance of
  the present arrangements so long as the war lasts there will
  nevertheless be indications of what the new economic policy is to
  be. ... It is not astonishing that Herr Naumann’s book should have
  made a deeper impression on Germany than any book of recent times. The
  author writes for everybody; he has enough learning and distinction to
  satisfy the well-educated and enough clearness and breeziness to
  attract the common mind. As an old Social Democrat, he understands how
  to make the most cunning kind of democratic appeal when he is in fact
  exalting Kaiserism.”

         =Spec= 118:701 Je 23 ‘17 1250w

  “The most famous book to which the war has given birth.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 Mr 14 ‘17 1650w

  Reviewed by Bruno Lasker

         =Survey= 38:359 Jl 21 ‘17 1100w

  “Naumann says that he conceived the plan of his book in April, 1915.
  Fortune favored him in the great eastern offensive that followed; and
  his book had its great vogue in the full flood of success against
  Russia which encouraged Berlin to lose no time in opening fiscal
  negotiations with Austria and Hungary, and even attempting to ‘solve’
  the problem of Poland. The English reader who now sees the book for
  the first time should bear the conditions of its production in mind.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p375 Ag 10 ‘16 850w

  Reviewed by W. C. Abbott

         =Yale R= n s 6:892 Jl ‘17 120w


=NEILL, ALEXANDER SUTHERLAND.= Dominie dismissed. *$1.25 (3c) McBride
828 E17-785

  A sequel to “A dominie’s log.” The school master whose original
  experiments in education were described in that book is dismissed from
  his position and a representative of the old type of teacher is put in
  his place. The dismissed dominie goes to work on a near-by farm and
  watches his successor break down all that he has built up. A small
  group of the children, however, cling to him, and there are many
  delightful out-of-school conversations recorded. The educational
  questions discussed are pertinent to the times. The author warns
  against the danger of over-emphasis on technical education after the
  war, and, in a conversation with an American visitor, comments on some
  of our educational experiments.

  “We may justly complain of the careless statements, the false
  premises, the disputable facts which mar the argument. These help to
  make Mr Neill’s views on education and sociology unconvincing. All the
  same, the reader can count on an extremely agreeable picture of school
  life in a Scottish village, uncompromising in its attitude, but
  absolutely without malice; and a handbook on socialism into the
  bargain.” J. F. S.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 500w

       + =Dial= 63:408 O 25 ‘17 190w

  “However we may dissent from many of the author’s opinions, he has
  written a most original and suggestive volume, filled with sayings
  racy and to the point: a humorous story as well as one packed with
  theories which make the reader ‘sit up.’”

         =N Y Times= 22:250 Jl 1 ‘17 570w


=NEILSON, WILLIAM ALLAN.= Robert Burns: how to know him. il *$1.50 Bobbs
17-13543

  Chapters on: Biography; Inheritance: language and literature; Burns
  and Scottish song; Satires and epistles; Descriptive and narrative
  poetry, make up this study of Burns. The author wisely recognizes that
  the best way to know Burns is to read him and quotes over one hundred
  of the poems. The author is professor of English at Harvard
  university.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:50 N ‘17

  “He gives us an interesting and truthful sketch of the poet’s life.”

       + =Cath World= 105:841 S ‘17 380w

       + =Cleveland= p126 N ‘17 70w

  “William Allan Neilson has a trifle too much subtlety and coolness in
  his method to ‘do’ Burns, the romantic poet, drinker, and lover, with
  any great amount of enthusiasm; it is Burns the Scotchman whom he
  really warms to.”

     + — =Dial= 63:410 O 25 ‘17 110w

  “William Allan Neilson, to judge just from his ‘Burns, how to know
  him,’ is, first of all, a man of breadth, and only secondly a digger
  in booklore. Humor of word, as well as humor in a critical sense and
  understanding of the poet’s and the man’s heart, pervades these
  well-printed pages. A first class practical idea is that of the
  glossary. Properly limited to just the really troublesome Scottish
  dialect words it runs along the margins, instead of being tucked away
  off somewhere in the back of the book.”

       + =Ind= 92:61 O 6 ‘17 510w

  “Will delight every lover of poetry.”

       + =Lit D= 55:44 D 1 ‘17 210w

  “It is certainly saying nothing against the book to say that the firm
  impression it makes is mainly produced by the poems, well chosen and
  well arranged and, with the marginal glossary, easily read. Their
  effect, however, is reinforced by a skilful, compact biography, a
  clear, thoroughly informed chapter on Burns’s language and his
  literary antecedents, a running commentary on the selections, and a
  critical summary.”

       + =Nation= 105:44 Jl 12 ‘17 400w

  “An excellent introduction to Burns, giving a very sympathetic yet
  just view, both of the biographical and analytical sections.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:219 Jl ‘17 30w

  “There is one perfectly obvious duty, a duty which cannot be too
  carefully performed, which Mr Neilson—like almost all his predecessors
  in the editing of Burns—has scanted. We refer to the elucidation of
  Burns’s dialect. Mr Neilson follows the method of the centenary
  edition of the poet. He gives fairly numerous glosses in the margin.
  He does this rather more freely than the centenary editors, and
  occasionally his gloss is more correct than theirs. Nevertheless he
  leaves a good deal undone which might easily have been done. The
  selections from Burns are very judiciously made, and give an
  exceptionally adequate idea of the poet’s quality and value.” H: B.
  Hinckley

     + — =Yale R= n s 7:220 O ‘17 650w


=NEKRASOV, NIKOLAI ALEXEIEVICH.= Who can be happy and free in Russia?
tr. by Juliet M. Soskice; with an introd. by Dr D: Soskice. (World’s
classics) *45c Oxford 891.7 17-23320

  Nicholas Nekrassov was born in 1821 and died in 1877. In Russia he is
  called “the poet of the people’s sorrow” and in the introduction to
  this first English translation of his greatest work he is pronounced
  “the sole and rightful heir of his two great predecessors, Pushkin and
  Lermontov.” The prolog to the poem describes the meeting on the road
  of seven peasants who dispute over the question that forms the title,
  Who can be happy and free in Russia? One says only the priest, one
  says the landowner, another thinks the tsar’s chief adviser may be the
  happy man, while another declares that only the tsar himself has the
  right to freedom and happiness. To find the answer to their own
  question they wander about the country, and in the tale of their
  adventures we are given a picture of the tragedy and comedy, the
  sorrows and joys of Russian life.

  “It will be very acceptable to English readers as the magnum opus of
  one of the foremost Russians of his time, ‘the poet of the people’s
  sorrow.’ The Oxford press deserves thanks for making such a work
  accessible at a price within the reach of every one.”

       + =Ath= p253 My ‘17 80w

  “It is a veritable peasant Odyssey. ... In spite of the fact that the
  English version of the poem does not preserve the peculiar musical and
  stylistic quality of the original, the translator has made every lover
  of good literature her debtor.” Abraham Yarmolinsky

     + — =Bookm= 46:485 D ‘17 170w

  “No one is likely to forget Nekrassov who reads Juliet M. Soskice’s
  translation, the first into English, of ‘Who can be happy and free in
  Russia?’ ... No extracts can give more than a hazy notion of the
  freshness and abundance of Nekrassov’s pictures of Russian life. The
  poor verse of the translation cannot spoil them.” P. L.

       + =New Repub= 11:163 Je 9 ‘17 1350w

  “It differs sharply from all other national epics. ... It might be the
  joint product of the Russian parallels of Burns, Villon, Synge; it is
  native, kin to the earth, endemic. It is full of simple vices and
  virtues, problems and passions; and this very simplicity makes it
  universal and of eternal importance.”

       + =N Y Call= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 520w

  “Mrs Soskice’s metrical version, mostly in an easy unrhymed measure,
  is fluent and readable. Dr Soskice prefixes a short Life of the poet—a
  picturesque and attractive figure.”

       + =Spec= 118:594 My 26 ‘17 60w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p180 Ap 12 ‘17 40w

  “Nekrassov may now be claimed as chief and most beloved of Russian
  poets; popular and national, devotedly singing the sorrows and social
  wrongs of the humble multitude with such vigour and fire that his
  influence upon the youth of the last generation and of this is
  unbounded, and singing with such simplicity of concealed art that the
  poorest of schoolchildren learn page after page of him by heart.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p222 My 10 ‘17 2000w

  “Full of vivid pictures of peasant life in village and country, this
  long poem, if taken in small doses, not more than a chapter at a time,
  is bound to produce a powerful impression.”

       + =Yale R= n s 7:188 O ‘17 70w


=NEVINS, JOSEPH ALLAN.= Illinois. (American college and university ser.)
il *$2 (2c) Oxford 378 17-13973

  “This is the first history of the University of Illinois, and the
  first volume on a state institution in Professor Krapp’s American
  college and university series.” (Nation) The author tells us in his
  preface that it has “seemed necessary to throw a much greater emphasis
  upon the record of the past than upon the tendencies or
  characteristics of the present, and that even in the four final
  chapters, nominally not historical at all, will be found much
  historical matter.” There are eight appendices.

  “This book has a special significance only for those interested in the
  educational development of a middle western state. It contains more
  information than the other volumes in the series but lacks to a large
  degree the literary charm of most of its predecessors.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 9 ‘17 110w

  “The book, pleasingly written, has also the more substantial merits of
  careful historical detail and a comprehensive grasp of its subject. It
  is a needed and useful contribution to our educational history.”

     + — =Dial= 63:530 N 22 ‘17 510w

  “Portraying his alma mater with the insight of a son and the
  dispassionateness of a stranger, Mr Nevins has made a book, which,
  while of peculiar interest, no doubt, to Illinoisians, holds its
  subject steadily at the level of all who are concerned with higher
  public education. ... He seizes upon the development of the
  institution in relation to the state as the unique and commanding
  aspect of his subject, and he collects and arranges his material to
  illustrate it.”

       + =Nation= 105:226 Ag 30 ‘17 1200w


=NEVINSON, CHRISTOPHER RICHARD WYNNE.=[2] Modern war; paintings by C. R.
W. Nevinson; with an essay by P. G: Konody. *$3.50 McBride 940.91
17-8608

  Mr Nevinson interprets the war thru the medium of one of the newer
  forms of art. He has found it “impossible to express the scenic and
  mechanical spirit of this twentieth century war with the languishing
  or obsolete symbolism of mediaeval or classic art.” “As you look at
  these paintings of Nevinson’s you reach a very obvious conclusion
  about modern war, namely that the individual soldier does not exist.
  All the actors on the scene, the soldiers serving the machine guns, or
  marching on in endless columns, the wounded writhing in pain, are not
  men but mannikins, gaunt conventionalized creatures, veritable slaves
  to routine and machines. ... The subject, for instance, of the
  painting of the field hospital ‘La patrie’ is not so much wounded
  soldiers as it is gestures of agony.” (Masses)

  “The only way to reflect this war truthfully in all its baleful
  manifestations, is to intellectualize it, to sublimate it, as it were,
  to transform its macabre into organized graphic representation. It is
  only through symbols that man can play with infinitudes. Just because
  he has attacked the problem in this way, C. R. W. Nevinson has been
  one of the first to react creatively to the reality of modern war.”
  Carl Zigrosser

     + + =Masses= 9:32 S ‘17 820w

  “Mr Nevinson is a cubist, though, as we understand from the essay
  introducing him, a cubist who wears his cubes with a difference. For
  ourselves, we should not care if he were ten times more the child of
  the T-square than he is so long as he can produce pictures like those
  we are criticizing.”

       + =Spec= 118:367 Mr 24 ‘17 1050w

  “His pictures are pictures not because they represent what he has
  seen, but because they give us ocular experience of his emotions.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p63 F 8 ‘17 900w


New manual of bayonet training and practical bayonet fighting. il *75c
National military pub. co. 355

  The publishers state that this little book is compiled from the
  regulations in force in the new armies of the Entente Allies, adopted
  at Plattsburg and other American camps. The first part “Bayonet
  training, 1916 (Provisional) gives reasons for and practical lessons
  in bayonet fighting.” The second part “Practical bayonet fighting”
  “does not purpose to be of assistance in training men for competition
  fighting, although it may be of some use for individual instruction,
  but it is hoped that it will be of service to officers and N. C. O.’s
  when training a squad or a company.” (Foreword)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:113 Ja ‘18

         =N Y Times= 22:379 O 7 ‘17 70w


=NEW REPUBLIC.= New Republic book; selections from the first hundred
issues. $1.50 Republic pub. co., 421 W. 21st st., N.Y. 320.4 17-4463

  “Sixty-seven of the best articles which have appeared in the New
  Republic for the last two years are brought together in this
  convenient and attractive volume. According to the preface, ‘it is a
  collaboration and makes no attempt at complete unanimity or logical
  consistency. It aims to give in compact and available form a sample of
  the liberal opinion in the United States as expressed from 1914 to
  1916 at the suggestion of events.’”—Am Pol Sci R

  “Bound in boards; will not last.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:333 My ‘17

  “As an aid in developing a responsible, well-informed public opinion
  ‘The New Republic book’ should render considerable service.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:364 My ‘17 150w

         =Masses= 9:28 Ap ‘16 1600w

  “‘The New Republic book’ shows physically, a tendency to go to pieces
  under close examination. ... ‘Spiritually’ it exhibits as much
  coherence as could fairly be expected in a numerous group of men and
  women animated by a desire to destroy ‘the old crusted folkways’ and
  to break up ‘the cake of intellectual custom.’ ... Their jaunty
  attitude towards the past—it is never au revoir but always
  adios—produces an exhilarating impression of timeliness. One with less
  spacious faith in the promise of the future might say—the timeliness
  of sailors who, to profit by a spanking breeze, throw the cargo
  overboard.”

       — =Nation= 104:410 Ap 5 ‘17 400w

  “The solid political articles based on broadly democratic principles,
  and expressing a true aspiration after social progress and
  international security, have given a leading to many minds and became
  of much value in the recent political campaign. In the literary
  articles the paper has been less satisfactory.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 6 ‘17 250w


=NEWARK, NEW JERSEY. COMMITTEE OF ONE HUNDRED.= Newark anniversary
poems; winners in the poetry competition. $1.25 Gomme 811.08 17-23312

  This volume is published under the auspices of the Committee of one
  hundred on the 250th anniversary celebration of the founding of the
  city of Newark, New Jersey, May to October, 1916. It includes
  introductory chapters on Newark, on “Early Puritan poetry,” on “Civic
  celebrations as a community force,” and “A plan for a national
  anthology of American poetry,” by Henry Wellington Wack, editor of the
  Newarker; the official “Celebration ode,” by Lyman Whitney Allen; the
  poetry of the Newark pageant and masque, by Thomas Wood Stevens; the
  thirteen Newark prize poems; and “Other Newark anniversary poems,
  grave and gay,” which appeared in the Newarker, the Committee’s
  official journal, published from November, 1915 to November, 1916, as
  a record of anniversary events. Appendices give biographies of prize
  winners, names of the Committee of one hundred, etc.

  “The poetry included in this anthology of Newark is much above the
  average level of anniversary verse and forms a worthy tribute to the
  great city. Our chief criticism is that so many of the bards celebrant
  found it necessary to apologize for their task.”

       + =Ind= 92:68 O 6 ‘17 350w

  “Competitions in the arts are noteworthy for the fact that little good
  work is produced by them. This rule was not broken in the Newark
  contest. Nine hundred entries were submitted, and of all those
  published in the collection at hand only one touches greatness. By a
  coincidence not often met with in competitions, this great poem was
  awarded first prize. We refer to Clement Woods’ ringing glorification,
  indictment and prophecy!” D: P. Berenberg

     – + =N Y Call= p15 O 28 ‘17 460w


=NEWBERRY, PERRY.= Castaway Island. il *$1.75 (2c) Penn 17-23974

  The Galapagos islands, cut by the equator, lie out from the coast of
  Equador. They have never had a native population, and altho the Panama
  canal has increased their value, they are still sparsely settled. The
  island on which Bob Trevlin and Jeffers Stimson are wrecked is quite
  uninhabited. Bob Trevlin is a young San Francisco boy who is about to
  take passage for home when he meets Stimson, a soldier of fortune. The
  two plan to travel together, but a tropical storm drives them out to
  sea. The island on which they are landed has no human inhabitants, but
  they find on it a strange collection of wild domestic animals, the
  descendants, they suppose, of the animals left by earlier colonists.
  Chickens, dogs, cows and horses are among these, and their
  re-domestication is one of the occupations of the two castaways. Their
  adventures on the island cover about six months and include very real
  perils.

  “Brimful of exciting adventure.”

       + =Outlook= 117:510 N 28 ‘17 40w

  “It is a story full of interest. Attractive illustrations by F. A.
  Anderson, some of them in color, add much to the book.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 D 21 ‘17 120w


=NEWBOLT, SIR HENRY JOHN.= Book of the happy warrior. il *$1.75 (2c)
Longmans 18-300

  The author has retold some of the old heroic tales for boys, with two
  final chapters linking the past with the present. Contents: The song
  of Roland; Richard Cœur de Lion; St Louis, king of France; Robin Hood;
  Bertrand du Guesclin and the Black prince; News from Poitiers, 1356;
  France v. Gentlemen of England; The Chevalier Bayard; The old English
  school; Chivalry of to-day. The illustrations by Henry J. Ford include
  a frontispiece and several colored plates.

  “A book of scholarship and charm by a lover of the classics of
  chivalry.”

       + =Ath sup= p688 D ‘17 220w

       + =Ath sup= p694 D ‘17 60w

  “Good reading, particularly in these days, a book from which older as
  well as younger readers may get a thrill, is ‘The book of the happy
  warrior.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:466 N 11 ‘17 460w

  “He has a fine sense of the chivalries of the past as well as the
  present. He spares no pains with his excellent prose; he shuns alike
  the modern preciosity which spoils the old stories and the slipshod
  sentimentality which distorts virtue, a word which in older days meant
  the essential qualities of manhood. The title of the book in itself is
  a specimen of his felicitous taste.”

       + =Sat R= 124:sup6 D 8 ‘17 540w

  “Sir Henry Newbolt has written another excellent book for boys—and for
  their sisters too.”

       + =Spec= 119:sup473 N 3 ‘17 360w

  “The stories are told in clear, simple language and as far as possible
  in that of the original chroniclers.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p609 D 13 ‘17 460w


=NEWCOMER, ALPHONSO GERALD=, and others, eds. Three centuries of
American poetry and prose. *$1.75 Scott 810.8 17-24531

  A book of selections intended to meet the same need as that filled by
  “Twelve centuries of English poetry and prose.” In their selection of
  poetry the aim of the editors has been “to place between the covers of
  a single volume the greater part of what will remain permanent in
  American poetry from its beginnings down to the end of the first great
  production period in American literature.” With regard to prose, so
  comprehensive an aim was out of the question, but the editors say,
  “Whenever possible we have used wholes; when this was not possible we
  have made selections that would show the author’s purpose in the
  whole, and have above all tried to avoid the scrappiness and
  ineffectiveness of mere fragments.” Historically American literature
  is divided into two periods: the Colonial period and the National
  period, the latter closing about 1890. Chronological table, Index to
  notes and glossary, and Index to authors, titles and first lines are
  provided at the close.

         =Outlook= 117:387 N 7 ‘17 40w


=NEWMAN, HORATIO HACKETT.= Biology of twins (mammals). (Univ. of Chicago
science ser.) il *$1.25 Univ. of Chicago press 575 17-11116

  “Dr Newman has made a serious study of the problem of twins among
  mammals—especially armadillos, which have a way of producing multiple
  offspring as a regular thing. He has also gathered up the results of
  other people’s studies and has presented them in a very interesting
  way. ... Newman’s studies introduce several new factors into the
  speculations and interpretations of the problems. ... The bulk of the
  book is devoted to the armadillos, first because the author has made
  an extensive study of this group of animals, and second because these
  studies furnish the largest mass of direct evidence on the
  problems.”—Ind

  “Brief, concise résumé of present knowledge.”

       + =Cleveland= p79 Je ‘17 6w

  “The book is necessarily technical in parts, but the portions of
  concern to the general reader only can be read by a judicious skipper
  with great interest.”

       + =Ind= 92:69 O 6 ‘17 400w

  “The essential points obtained by investigators to date have been
  placed in a single small volume where, appearing in a not too
  technical dress, they are readily and conveniently available, not to
  zoologists alone, but to the thinking public in general.” H. H. W.

       + =Science= n s 46:486 N 16 ‘17 1450w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 190w


Newspaper press directory and advertisers’ guide; seventy-second annual
issue, 1917. *2s Mitchell, London 072

  “This directory contains particulars of every newspaper, magazine,
  review, and periodical published in the United Kingdom and the British
  Isles; the newspaper map of the United Kingdom; the press of the
  British dominions overseas, the Indian empire, the continent of
  Europe, America, and the Far East; and a directory of the class papers
  and periodicals. During the past twelve months 69 newspapers suspended
  publication in the British Isles, and 165 increased their price. In
  view of such changes as these, it will be evident that the
  seventy-second annual edition of Messrs Mitchell’s well-known and
  valuable work of reference must be particularly useful and important.
  The volume contains special articles dealing with the trend of the
  modern press, the legal year in its relation to the press, the
  commercial opportunities offered by the overseas dominions, and other
  topics.”—Ath

       + =Ath= p245 My ‘17 110w

  “The old-established trade record is a guide to the world’s press that
  we have always found to be accurate.”

       + =Spec= 118:465 Ap 21 ‘17 110w


=NEWTON, JOSEPH FORT.= Ambassador; City Temple sermons. *$1 Revell 252
17-293

  “Dr Newton’s call to the City Temple, London, from his pastorate in
  Cedar Rapids, Iowa, has called general attention to him as a preacher.
  This volume contains fifteen sermons, eleven of which were preached at
  the City Temple while he was visiting there, before his final call and
  acceptance. The remaining sermons were delivered in America. The
  dominant note in the sermons preached in England is Christian
  good-will. The subjects are concerned with the Christian life and
  doctrine in their general relations, emphasizing the fundamental
  problems of God and the relations of men to Christ.”—Bib World

  “He does not make his sermons from the last book he has read, but
  great books often give him his suggestion and point of contact and the
  most telling illustrations of truth. He is a fine example of what
  noble literature, especially poetry, may do for the preacher. The
  sermons speak especially to cultivated minds, yet through their
  simplicity and naturalness and humanness they make the universal
  appeal. Here is their real power.” A. S. Hoyt

       + =Am J Theol= 21:475 Jl ‘17 900w

  “Dr Newton has a message for the age. It is strongly put, but there
  are too many blemishes in its form.”

     + — =Bib World= 49:314 My ‘17 250w

  “Though the sermons deal with different themes, they have a unity of
  spirit, as they have one passion and purpose, to make vivid the truth
  as it is in Jesus, deeper than all dogmas, larger than all creeds,
  equal to every emergency, whether in peace or war.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 24 ‘17 180w

       + =Ind= 90:381 My 26 ‘17 120w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:108 Jl ‘17

  “It is hard to discover in them just what appealed to the audience in
  that great center of English nonconformity. They are hardly original
  in conception and at times are very discursive, being chiefly
  distinguished by an ornate rhetoric which garnishes many platitudes.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 4 ‘17 90w


=NEXÖ, MARTIN ANDERSEN.= Pelle the conqueror: daybreak; tr. from the
Danish by Jessie Muir. *$1.50 (2c) Holt 17-16731

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:92 Mr ‘17 900w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 14 ‘17 1250w

  “There is a simplicity and a steady focusing of the main issues in
  ‘Pelle.’ There is also—and this is one of the most admirable qualities
  of the book—a right proportion between the personal and the social;
  the two strands are kept going back and forth and wrought firmly into
  a unified design. I except the last volume, and it is curious to see
  how the pressure of social fact squeezes out there much of the
  reality. In the last volume there is a suggestion of externality. ...
  Taken all in all, ‘Pelle’ is a fine achievement in democratic art, the
  most satisfying novel of the labor movement that I have read.” G: B.
  Donlin

       + =Dial= 62:309 Ap 5 ‘17 1650w

  “To this final volume is appended a note about the author by Professor
  Jespersen of the University of Copenhagen. It seems that Nexö was very
  little known in Denmark when the first part of ‘Pelle the conqueror’
  appeared, some ten years ago. He was a teacher in Copenhagen who had
  done a little travelling and a little writing—chiefly some short
  stories which a few people had recognized as exceptional. Copenhagen
  was the place of his birth (1869); its circumstances were of the
  humblest. ... Such a work of imagination as this, with its deep humor,
  its deep humanity, brings home to us, as nothing else can, the
  artificial nature of those boundaries which language and custom set
  between one race and another. It is a book for the world; one cannot
  lay it down without a sense of quickened emotion and enlarged vision.”

       + =Nation= 104:241 Mr 1 ‘17 1250w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Nation= 104:404 Ap 5 ‘17 150w

  “To Nexö there are no reticences; there is nothing clean or unclean.
  Brought up himself in the poorest quarters of Copenhagen, and working,
  like his own Pelle, as a shoemaker’s apprentice on the secluded island
  of Bornholm, he relives that elemental life through this book. There
  is in him something of the old Rabelaisian flavor, which we are now
  far too sophisticated to get pleasantly from that old literature. He
  brings to our sympathy that rich, earthy, immemorial strain of sex and
  hunger and primitive necessities, gives it a modern embodiment that is
  all charm and sincere feeling. ... Surely ‘Pelle’ is one of the great
  novels of the world.” Randolph Bourne

     + + =New Repub= 10:sup8 Ap 21 ‘17 1700w

  “The book is international; it might have been written of Berlin, or
  Naples or London, or Calumet, as well as of Copenhagen. We can recall
  no American labor novel which begins to have its sweep and
  effectiveness; ‘The jungle,’ perhaps, comes closest, although it did
  not make the differentiation which this book (and the progress of
  industry) has made between the unskilled and the skilled laborer. It
  may be that we have the answer here at hand; the subject is being
  considered by all Socialists and labor leaders. Whether or not the
  future development of the strife follows the main outlines mapped out
  in this book, the story will have played its large part in the
  result.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ap 1 ‘17 670w

  “Side by side with Pelle is the portrait of his wife Ellen, a portrait
  of charm, which has a certain intimate symbolism which Mr Andersen
  Nexö handles with grace; and around them are the children and the old
  librarian Brun who are conceived with something of that simplicity
  which we associate with another Andersen, and which is the more
  lovable for that.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p68 F 8 ‘17 800w


=NICHOLSON, DANIEL HOWARD SINCLAIR, and LEE, A. H. E.=, eds. Oxford book
of English mystical verse. *$2.50 Oxford 821.08 17-17649

  “From Richard Rolle of Hampole to Mr Harold E. Goad some 150 poets are
  represented, the most prominent being Herbert, Crashaw, Traherne,
  Blake, Wordsworth, Tennyson, Browning, Whitman, Swinburne, Francis
  Thompson, A. E. Waite, and Bliss Carman.” (Ath) There is an index of
  authors and one of first lines.

         =Ath= p101 F ‘17 50w

  “‘The Oxford book of English mystical verse’ maintains the standards
  set by its predecessors. ... The distribution of the poems in point of
  time is interesting. Five-sixths of them—more than five-sixths, if we
  count Blake among the nineteenth century poets—are the product of that
  nineteenth century which its own prophets denounced as materialistic
  and skeptical beyond all previous epochs, of this twentieth century
  which, we were told before the war, was wholly given over to fads and
  superficiality. ... The most remarkable feature of most of the poems
  in this collection is their clarity. Their mystical quality is due to
  elevation of thought, not to woolly-mindedness.” J. DeL. Ferguson

       + =Dial= 63:207 S 13 ‘17 900w

  “In spite of laxities, however, the novelty of the enterprise gives
  the book a real value.” O. W. Firkins

     + — =Nation= 105:597 N 29 ‘17 90w

  “When we come to Matthew Arnold we find some variations from his
  proper text, due, perhaps, to slips in transcribing or to the use of
  earlier editions. Whatever the reason, we expect to find a great poet
  in the form which he chose to be remembered. ... The editors have a
  deficient sense of proportion: that is clear. Their volume, well over
  600 pages, includes some examples unworthy of preservation in a
  first-rate anthology. It might have been a smaller one, more
  definitely mystic, or, in view of its wide scope, they might have
  gathered for their posy some lasting flowers which are not of
  yesterday.”

     – + =Sat R= 123:186 F 24 ‘17 1350w

  “It will delight every poetry-lover. ... It is the modern men whose
  work we are most interested to see. To us, at present, the unexpected
  mysticism of the man of the world, the man of letters, the man of
  action, the unbeliever, even the sinner, is of the deepest
  interest—because it is along mystic lines that the religious world is
  now feeling after assurance. ... But when we have drunk the new wine
  we turn back to Vaughan and Donne and Crashaw and George Herbert and
  Traherne, and say: ‘The old is better.’ We are, however, not the less
  grateful to Mr Nicholson and Mr Lee for giving us to drink of the new
  also.”

       + =Spec= 118:303 Mr 10 ‘17 1400w

  “A book in which a hundred or so poems, not all mystical but all fine
  and true, the work of poets, are buried in a wilderness of respectable
  religious verse which is only sometimes mysticism and hardly ever
  poetry.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p102 Mr 1 ‘17 900w


=NICHOLSON, MEREDITH.= Madness of May. il *$1 (5c) Scribner 17-11468

  Billy Deering is in a tight place, very much worried about himself and
  his future, when a picturesque stranger, introducing himself as R.
  Hood, takes possession of him. Much against his will at first,
  thinking his companion is either an escaped lunatic or a crook, young
  Mr Deering accompanies the stranger on what turns out to be a series
  of fantastic adventures in which a girl who calls herself Pierrette
  plays a part.

  “Appeared in Collier’s Weekly.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:450 Jl ‘17

  “A story to be read by all honest lovers of romance in terms of
  whimsy.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:408 Je ‘17 260w

  “It is so absolutely incredible that the perfectly plausible
  explanation of the whole situation in the end is positively irritating
  to the unsuspicious reader, who has not cared to come out of clouds.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 150w

  “It is just long enough to entertain a reader in the mood for a trifle
  that is not trash.”

       + =Cath World= 105:842 S ‘17 140w

       + =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 70w

  “A trifle of delicious quality—a confection, if you will, of the
  purest and soundest materials.”

       + =Nation= 104:580 My 10 ‘17 400w

  “A dainty, fluffy bit of most irresponsible foolery.”

         =N Y Times= 22:226 Je 10 ‘17 230w

       + =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 30w

  “It’s just pure fun, and one only wishes the story were longer.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 200w

  “Very light, improbable, and amusing.”

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:159 My ‘17 40w


=NICHOLSON, MEREDITH.= Reversible Santa Claus. il *$1 (6c) Houghton
17-28188

  Billy the Hopper, ex-crook, is the hero of this Christmas story. The
  Hopper, now proprietor of a chicken farm, is leading a blameless life
  when temptation assails him in two-fold form. To make the matter
  worse, it is Christmas eve. One of his falls from grace results in the
  extraction of a bill-book from a fellow passenger’s pocket, an act of
  which he is heartily ashamed, for petty larceny is far below the level
  of his talents. The other slip is the stealing of an automobile. Out
  of this act grow complications. The machine has an occupant—a sleeping
  baby. It is while attempting to return the child to his parents that
  the Hopper is persuaded to play the part of a reversible Santa Claus,
  one who takes things away from people for their own good.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:133 Ja ‘18

  “It is burlesque, its quite impossible action moves swiftly; to see it
  pass once across the screen may divert an idle hour.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 D 1 ‘17 320w

  “‘A reversible Santa Claus,’ gives free scope to his humorous fancy.
  It would be preposterous if it did not concern a fairy world.”

       + =Nation= 105:540 N 15 ‘17 170w

  “It is with relief that it is found to be a most diverting tale, its
  more or less necessary Yuletide cheer well mixed with real gayety and
  humor.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:518 D 2 ‘17 350w

  “Original and amusing.”

       + =Outlook= 117:475 N 21 ‘17 20w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 180w

  “Will hardly answer to the demand for a Christmas story, and is
  perhaps not worth the small library’s purchase.”

     – + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:32 Ja ‘18 50w


=NICOLAS, RENÉ.= Campaign diary of a French officer; tr. by Katharine
Babbitt. *$1.25 (3½c) Houghton 940.91 17-10365

  A diary covering three months of the war, from February to May, 1915.
  The author says, “When I visited America recently I came to realize
  the widespread interest in the European war shown by the citizens of
  the new world. ... The many questions I have been asked, and the
  earnest attention accorded to my accounts of the war, are my excuse
  for publishing this journal. ... Except for a few trifling omissions,
  this book reproduces exactly the notes I took at the front. ... The
  story is a true one, lived and lived intensely. In this fact lies the
  little merit the work may posses.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:445 Jl ‘17

  “The book is of especial interest in comparison with the more off-hand
  accounts of Ian Hay and the member of ‘Kitchener’s mob.’”

       + =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 90w

  “His book is everywhere simple, frank, humane. ... One cannot suppose
  that M. Nicolas’s experience or his fortitude is at all unusual. Such
  daily horrors must be the very stuff of life to thousands. To read of
  them, thus calmly set down, is to realize once more what an adaptable
  creature man is and to be filled with wonder that the mere threat of
  hell should have tortured his imagination for ages.”

       + =Dial= 62:404 My 3 ‘17 350w

       + =Ind= 90:296 My 12 ‘17 120w

  “He who would gain an idea, not only of what war means, but of what
  France means to those who love her, should read this book.”

       + =Outlook= 116:33 My 2 ‘17 90w

         =Pratt= p41 O ‘17 10w

         =R of Rs= 55:551 My ‘17 40w

         =St Louis= 15:315 S ‘17 30w

  “For vividness it would be hard to match this brief story of the
  front, because it is a genuine diary. ... The printed book is quite as
  realistically thrilling as if it bore the scars of the original.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 250w


=NIEMEYER, NANNIE.= Stories for the history hour; from Augustus to Rolf.
*$1.25 (2c) Dodd

  “These stories are written solely for the purpose of being told,” says
  the author in her preface. “They are not intended for children’s
  reading, but for teachers’ telling. ... These are stories which I
  wished to tell, and of which I could find no satisfactory version. ...
  I have avoided all stories of which numerous good versions exist.” The
  author is an English woman and the stories are planned to fit courses
  of study in Great Britain. The period from 50 B.C. to 900 A.D. is
  covered. Contents: Augustus; Onesimus; Trajan; Pliny; Cornelius;
  Alaric; Geneviève; Clovis; Columba; Cuthbert; Sturmi; Charles the
  Great; Charles and Alcuin; Ingiald; Eudes; Rolf. A list of authorities
  is given at the end.

  “There is, fortunately, a growing movement in the direction of giving
  history a meaning and interest for children such as cannot be
  compassed by formal lectures and text-books. A good example of the
  kind of thing that is being done, and done successfully, is ‘Stories
  for the history hour.’” J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:496 D ‘17 170w


=NOBBS, GILBERT.= On the right of the British line. il *$1.25 (2½c)
Scribner 940.91 17-24723

  Captain Nobbs was five weeks on the firing line on the Somme, four
  weeks mourned as dead, and three months a prisoner of war in Germany.
  He describes vividly how he planned the attack of his company under
  fire, brought his men into position, directed the charge, and fell,
  wounded in the head and blinded for life.

  “One of the most moving of the personal accounts.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:162 F ‘18

         =Cleveland= p1 Ja ‘18 70w

  “This is not a great book. It is so unpretentious, indeed, that one
  wonders why one has finished it at a single sitting. But as a graphic,
  moving picture it will hold any reader.”

       + =Dial= 64:72 Ja 17 ‘18 240w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:763 N ‘17 40w

  “A simple and interesting personal narrative.” P. B.

       + =St Louis= 15:417 D ‘17 20w


=NOBLE, EDWARD.= Outposts of the fleet. *60c Houghton 17-17081

  “That heroes of the merchant marine should, as a rule, receive but
  scant recognition seems very unjust to Mr Edward Noble. ... To the
  ordinary perils of the deep are now added the risks and the terrors of
  war, as is vividly brought out in such tales as ‘Torpedoed’ and
  ‘Homeward with grain,’ which, with seven other short pieces, make up
  the contents of the book. Most, if not all, of these sea-yarns have
  already seen the light in various British journals. ... They are new
  to American readers.”—Dial

  “Nine graphic short stories which show a keen insight into the
  character of the British seaman and a wide knowledge of his life.
  Printed on very poor paper.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:170 F ‘18

  “As full of the marine spirit as sea water is full of salt.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 13 ‘17 300w

       + =Dial= 63:400 O 25 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:74 My ‘17 30w

         =R of Rs= 55:669 Je ‘17 40w


Noontime messages in a college chapel. *$1.25 (4c) Pilgrim press 252
17-30764

  Sixty-nine short addresses to young people by twenty-five well-known
  preachers of different denominations. The college is not named, but
  the preachers represented belong to Boston and its vicinity. Among
  them are: George H. Hodges, Charles F. Dole, Paul R. Frothingham,
  Daniel Evans, Samuel M. Crothers, and Raymond Calkins. The addresses
  are very brief and are in the nature of intimate talks.

  “May be suggestive to ministers and leaders of religious
  organizations.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:149 F ‘18

  “The thought itself, while sometimes brilliant and suggestive, is more
  often tame and commonplace.”

     – + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 26 ‘18 110w

  “All are characterized by freshness and insight.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 90w


=NORRIS, EDWIN MARK.= Story of Princeton. il *$2 (3c) Little 378
17-28880

  This story of Princeton has been written by the editor of the
  Princeton Alumni Weekly. It is based on well-known sources, and aims,
  in addition to giving the essential historical facts, “to present and
  preserve some of the more characteristic traditions and anecdotes that
  through two centuries have gathered about the name of Princeton.”
  (Preface) Contents: When we lived under the king; Princeton’s part in
  the making of the nation; The reign of terror; Depression and
  reconstruction; The great awakening; The university. The illustrations
  are from drawings by Lester G. Hornby.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:77 D ‘17

         =Cleveland= p9 Ja ‘18 40w

         =Ind= 92:262 N 3 ‘17 50w

  “The book tells its story well. It is indexed, and the drawings are
  numerous and good.”

       + =Lit D= 56:39 Ja 12 ‘18 190w

  “A worthy volume to set beside Arthur Stanwood Pier’s similar study of
  Harvard. The volume is for the undergraduate and the alumnus in
  business, not for the man who has a professional or otherwise strongly
  developed interest in higher education and academic history. It is
  simply a bright sketch, made possible by Professor Collins’s recent
  exhaustive book, and frank in its shortcomings.”

     + — =Nation= 105:642 D 6 ‘17 320w

  “Mr Norris is particularly happy in depicting the great personalities
  among the presidents of bygone days.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:549 D 9 ‘17 320w

       + =Outlook= 117:519 N 28 ‘17 80w

         =R of Rs= 57:221 F ‘18 40w

  “The only defect of his entertaining sketch of the university’s
  history is a tendency to gloss over some of the ‘intellectual’
  battles—if they were wholly intellectual—that were waged over
  questions of policy. ... Mr Norris’s book as a whole is pleasant and
  unpretentiously informing.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 1050w


=NORRIS, KATHLEEN (THOMPSON) (MRS CHARLES GILMAN NORRIS).= Martie, the
unconquered. il *$1.35 (1c) Doubleday 17-22088

  Martie Monroe, a girl of strong individuality and much ambition,
  brought up in a little California town, escaped from her family who
  economically and socially were on the down-hill grade, by marrying
  Wallace Bannister, a third-class actor. The Bannisters went to New
  York, where a son was born. As Wallace was constantly away, and failed
  to support his wife, she took charge of the boarding-house in which
  she lived. After her husband’s death, she returned to California to
  live in the old homestead with her father, her sister Lydia and her
  son Teddy, and to work in the Monroe public library. After she had
  accepted an offer of marriage from Clifford Frost, a leading citizen
  of Monroe about twice her age, John Dryden, who had known and loved
  her in New York, followed her to California; but Martie, being a
  Catholic, refused to marry Dryden because he was a divorced man, and,
  breaking her engagement to Frost, returned to New York to work in the
  office of a magazine for which she had written some successful
  articles. Her career is contrasted with that of her sister Sally, who
  married a poor boy and had four children whom she brought up on an
  allowance made her by “Dr Ben,” an old physician who believed in the
  endowment of motherhood.

  “Published in the Pictorial Review.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:27 O ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:340 N ‘17 80w

  “To touch unobtrusively and incidentally upon moral questions of the
  hour has been Mrs Norris’s object in the writing of all her novels,
  and never has she succeeded so well as in ‘Martie the
  unconquered.’ ... As a novel with its basis the problem of woman, it
  will make its strongest appeal because it is not a problem novel. ...
  There is little of the polemic in it, except as life itself is
  polemic. It contains much of reality and truth as they are faced by a
  young woman who is unable to remain amid the placid conditions of her
  birth. And best of all it is free from the morbid sentimentality that
  has too frequently obtruded itself into Mrs Norris’s other novels.” E.
  F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 15 ‘17 1650w

  “The book is readable, and much of it is well written; but it fails to
  carry out the author’s evident intention to picture the triumph of a
  dauntless spirit over adverse conditions.”

     – + =Cath World= 106:555 Ja ‘18 160w

  “The author’s handling of character and her power of rendering the
  details of village life are worthy of attention. The picture of
  Malcolm Monroe’s household, dominated by the suspicions of a petty
  tyrant, is an excellent bit of domestic comedy. Bonestell’s drugstore,
  where the young folk of Monroe gather for pink sodas; the library
  steps where they meet and shyly depart on Sunday afternoon walks; the
  drab existence of New York boarding-houses and flats; the dull reality
  of the mediocre actor’s days and nights,—these scenes and this youth
  are part of our American life and they are sketched with a skill that
  is really notable.”

       + =Dial= 63:220 S 13 ‘17 170w

  “Kathleen Norris is suffering the inevitable penalty of over-prolific
  production. ... If her tricks of manner grow a bit hackneyed, the
  basic idea on which she works will bear a great deal of repetition.”

     – + =Ind= 93:240 F 9 ‘18 160w

  “Somehow, as has happened before in Mrs Norris’s work, the story which
  began so clearly and simply as a record of human experience is
  gradually enfolded and finally smothered outright in a fog of sheer
  sentimentalism.”

     – + =Nation= 105:541 N 15 ‘17 110w

  “It is encouraging to find in a story that is frankly the story of a
  popular romancer so much of the actualistic and veracious. Nor is the
  attack on our earlier romantic aura tradition confined wholly to the
  background. Mrs Norris’ heroine struggles through her loves and early
  love’s mistakes to her fulness of womanhood and achievement, and there
  is not even the condescension of a mating-finish.”

       + =New Repub= 12:252 S 29 ‘17 190w

  “The best-drawn figure in the book is Martie’s father, a fine and
  consistent portrait. He stands out, in his bigoted egotism, as one
  living personality among many vague shadows.” Clement Wood

     – + =N Y Call= p15 D 29 ‘17 180w

  “Mrs Norris’s portrayals of character are always graphic, even where
  they are slight and superficial. Martie is perhaps the most real and
  vital of all her gallery of feminine portraits.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:286 Ag 5 ‘17 670w

  “There is close depiction of a rather narrow range of character. The
  story in workmanship is equal to the author’s best previous writing.”

       + =Outlook= 116:660 Ag 29 ‘17 60w

  “Martie must be regarded as one of Mrs Norris’s best characters.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 23 ‘17 550w


=NORRIS, KATHLEEN (THOMPSON) (MRS CHARLES GILMAN NORRIS).= Undertow. il
*$1.25 (3c) Doubleday 17-11464

  The story of a married pair who hold together thru adversity only to
  find themselves drawn apart when prosperity comes to them. Bert and
  Nancy marry on twenty-five dollars a week. With careful economy they
  keep well and happy in the little four room apartment. Children come
  one after the other and Bert’s salary keeps pace with the growing
  needs of the family. When they have attained real financial
  independence they move to a fashionable suburb. Here they are drawn
  into the gay, idle life of the place. They live beyond their means and
  worry about appearances, but they so far retain their common sense
  that they can look on the calamity that releases them as a bit of good
  fortune.

  “Copyright by the Curtis publishing company under the title ‘Holly
  court.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:405 Je ‘17

       + =Cath World= 105:554 Jl ‘17 90w

  “Even the characters hardly live. They move vaguely across the screen
  in the all-too well-known progress of their lives. If Mrs Norris
  wishes to do any more moral tales, she must make them more vivid and
  alive or her readers will fly for relief to the latest detective
  story.”

       — =Dial= 62:402 My 3 ‘17 130w

  “This book is a lantern of warning set on a rock pile.”

       + =Ind= 90:298 My 12 ‘17 50w

         =Nation= 104:736 Je 21 ‘17 280w

  “One wonders, indeed, if the author is not playing her characters
  false, in this [suburban] phase of their development, for the sake of
  the story she is weaving and the moral she desires her readers to get
  out of it.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:113 Ap 1 ‘17 400w

  Reviewed by M. A. Hopkins

       + =Pub W= 91:969 Mr 17 ‘17 350w

  “The story presents a sharp lesson in the useless extravagance so
  conspicuous in the American home. But the story is so well balanced
  that the moral is at no time unduly prominent. It is not long, but is
  well worth the reading.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 300w

  “Interesting despite the heavily-accentuated moral.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:159 My ‘17 60w


=NORTHEND, MARY HARROD.=[2] Memories of old Salem. il *$4 Moffat 974.4
17-27755

  “This book, while written in the form of a romantic tale, is designed
  chiefly to carry the reader back to the days when Salem was in its
  glory, the days when its ships sailed the seven seas and brought
  riches and fame to the ancient port. Miss Northend’s story hangs upon
  the discovery of a packet of love-letters hidden in the frame of an
  old picture, and by means of the narrative she skilfully conveys the
  spirit and the setting of the past.”—Lit D

  “In both text and picture Miss Northend emphasizes those striking
  qualities that make Salem one of the most interesting American towns.
  The great grandmother, in telling the story, recreates the past with
  all its glamour.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 19 ‘17 1200w

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 8 ‘17 130w

  “Mrs Northend ingeniously contrived a readable narrative in which to
  embody an immense amount of information. The illustrations alone will
  be a treasure for any one interested in the life and arts of early New
  England.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:4 Ja 6 ‘18 260w

  “This volume is eminently attractive, both in its physical and
  pictorial form and in the curious information about old times and old
  things in Salem.”

       + =Outlook= 118:67 Ja 9 ‘18 70w

  “Whether or not this narrative is all that could be desired as an
  account of colonial manners and customs is by no means certain. Some
  readers, at all events, would prefer a larger amount of research, and
  a smaller admixture of personal sentiment. The pictures, however, are
  the real raison d’etre of the volume.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 23 ‘17 330w


=NORTHRUP, EDWIN FITCH.= Laws of physical science; a reference book. *$2
Lippincott 530 17-13944

  The author’s aim has been to compile a handbook containing a complete
  list of the general propositions or laws of science. He says, “We have
  chosen for a title, ‘Laws of physical science’ but many general
  propositions, theorems and mere statements of important facts have
  been included which perhaps, if strictly considered, could not be
  discriminated as laws. ... When such doubts existed, a policy of
  inclusion has been followed in preference to one of exclusion.” In all
  the book contains 480 general statements. These are classified into
  six groups: Mechanics; Hydrostatics, hydrodynamics and capillarity;
  Sound; Heat and physical chemistry; Electricity and magnetism; Light.
  Bibliography and index follow.

  “The book is a valuable epitome, and should be of special service to
  students of physics, chemistry, and engineering.”

       + =Ath= p592 N ‘17 170w

  “Dr Edwin P. Northrup of Princeton has done a very useful service in
  adding to existing reference books his ‘Laws of physical science.’”

       + =Educ R= 54:316 O ‘17 50w

  “Students of engineering and the physical sciences have long needed a
  compact handbook of the established propositions of physical science.
  Dr Northrup has prepared just such a handbook. ... Each law is
  followed by one and in some cases by several references to easily
  accessible textbooks, standard treatises, etc., where detailed and
  systematic treatment is given of these propositions. This is not the
  least important contribution of the book.”

       + =El School J= 17:692 My ‘17 250w

  “A judicious choice has been made from a large selection of authors,
  so that in each case the law might be given in its clearest and most
  exact form. The book is attractively got up.”

       + =Nation= 105:274 S 6 ‘17 70w

  “In a book which so obviously fills a gap in our literature it is
  perhaps a little ungrateful to point out minor defects. The contrast
  between the thoroughness of the section devoted to current electricity
  and the incompleteness and lack of unity of some of the other sections
  is very marked.”

     + — =Nature= 100:265 D 6 ‘17 330w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:76 My ‘17 10w

  “Unique work of great value for quick reference. Wider in scope than
  title indicates.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:655 O ‘17 40w

  “The demands of condensation have been met for the most part very
  successfully in statements which though compact are clear and correct.
  In a few instances, however, the statements should be revised. ... It
  is perhaps unfortunate that the author has chosen Rankine as his
  source for various thermodynamic statements, for with all his
  undoubted genius Rankine is not an easy guide to follow. ... But it is
  easy to be too critical; the author has successfully carried out his
  proposal and has done an important service.” A. L. Kimball

     + — =Science= n s 47:120 F 1 ‘18 700w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 My 18 ‘17 120w


=NORTON, MRS JEANNETTE YOUNG.= Mrs Norton’s cook-book; selecting,
cooking, and serving for the home table. *$2.50 (1c) Putnam 641.5
17-11938

  The author says, “I have tried to make this a cook book, pure and
  simple, avoiding all reference to, and rules of, chemistry, feeling
  that the pupils of the schools of domestic science have all such
  information. ... [and that] lay women would not ordinarily use such
  information if it were given.” A half dozen chapters of general
  information precede the chapters devoted to recipes. Special chapters
  are given to Invalid cookery, Nursery diet, Child cookery, Children’s
  parties, School luncheons, Camp cookery, etc.

  “Recipes are concise but some of them are rather extravagant for the
  average housekeeper of these times. Would be a great help to tea
  shops, clubs, or even hotels. Good index.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:435 Jl ‘17

       + =Ind= 91:136 Jl 28 ‘17 40w

  “Besides hundreds of recipes, there are chapters of general
  information most useful to the housekeeper.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:554 N ‘17 60w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 200w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p418 Ag 30 ‘17 50w


=NORWAY, MARY LOUISA (GADSDEN) (MRS HAMILTON NORWAY).= Sinn Fein
rebellion as I saw it. il *2s Smith, Elder & co., London 941.5 (Eng ed
A16-1424)

  “The author is the wife of the Secretary for the Post office in
  Ireland, and in the letters here reprinted, which were written for
  family perusal, gives a good idea of the sudden terrors and anxieties
  of the rising. ‘H.’ at the beginning of the war, had obtained a
  military guard, armed, for the G. P. O. When the outbreak occurred it
  was there, but had no ammunition. It is a shocking story of folly and
  mismanagement. ... Evidence is offered of German assistance of the
  rebels.”—Sat R

  “No literary merit is claimed for these letters, which were intended
  for family perusal only, but they convey a vivid idea of the events
  and the anxieties they aroused.”

       + =Ath= p485 O ‘16 60w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:425 My ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:24 Ja ‘17

         =Sat R= 122:232 S 2 ‘16 160w

  “A perfectly plain, straightforward narrative.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p375 Ag 10 ‘16 800w


=NOURSE, EDWIN GRISWOLD.= Agricultural economics. (Materials for the
study of economics) *$2.75 (1c) Univ. of Chicago press 338 16-23032

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “Chapter 1, The emergence of the problem of agricultural economics, is
  disappointing. ... The best material on the history of American
  agriculture has not been utilized. ... The editor has kept well in the
  foreground the social aspect of such matters as the standard of living
  of the rural population and the defects of the labor force both in
  quality and quantity. In so doing he has justified his advocacy of the
  teaching of agricultural economics in every institution which aims to
  give a liberal education.” P. W. Bidwell

       + =Am Econ R= 7:387 Je ‘17 700w

  “Should be a valuable help to teachers of undergraduate students,
  specially until the whole field is more fully developed. More complete
  and better edited than other books on this subject.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:245 Mr ‘17

  “A more accurate title for this collection of valuable contributions
  would be ‘Source book of agricultural economics,’ since the author
  does not attempt to present what would commonly be looked upon as a
  textbook in the general principles of the subject.” J. L. C.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:300 N ‘17 120w

  “A book significant at once of the trend of thought in this direction,
  and of the new technique of university instruction.”

       + =Ind= 89:421 Mr 5 ‘17 350w

  “Where the problem under discussion is of a controversial nature, both
  sides of the case are carefully presented. But in some instances the
  author has failed to set forth important facts bearing upon his
  subject. That is, too little space has been given to certain
  topics. ... Professor Nourse has assembled some suggestive material.
  He has produced, as it were, a ‘comparative print’ which throws the
  searchlight of agricultural data on controversial points in economic
  theory—theory which has too often been developed without due regard
  for agricultural facts. In accomplishing his other aims he has not
  succeeded so well. His collection of materials can hardly be regarded
  as a first-class textbook. Nevertheless, it represents by far the best
  attempt that has yet been made to satisfy this need.” G: E. Putnam

     + — =J Pol Econ= 25:308 Mr ‘17 1050w


=NOVIKOVA, OLGA ALEKSIEEVNA.= Russian memories; with an introd. by
Stephen Graham. il *$3.50 Dutton (Eng ed 16-22949)

  “People whose memory goes back to the eastern crisis of 1876-78 are
  not likely to have forgotten Mme Olga Novikoff, or the part that she
  played in the struggle between the Disraelians and the Gladstonians of
  that day. A Russian lady, handsome and clever, well connected and well
  backed, she captivated Mr Gladstone, and enlisted in support of her
  cause men so diverse as Carlyle, Tyndall, and W. T. Stead. ... Her new
  book, rather vaguely called ‘Russian memories,’ is partly a sketch of
  her past political activities, and partly a survey of certain aspects
  of Russia during recent years, of her politics home and foreign, and
  of the immediate situation.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

         =A L A Bkl= 14:23 O ‘17

  “These reminiscences of a very notable woman, who has numbered among
  her friends Gladstone, Kinglake (’Eothen’), Carlyle, Froude, Tyndall,
  W. T. Stead, Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, Verestschagin, and ‘Mark
  Twain,’ are opportune in their appearance. ... The volume is provided
  with a good index.”

         =Ath= p548 N ‘16 200w

  “That much-abused person who is commonly referred to as the future
  historian will probably consider this lady the last Mohican of Russian
  monarchism.” Abraham Yarmolinsky.

     – + =Bookm= 46:483 D ‘17 180w

  “It is a sincere analysis of the relations between Russia and England
  as she has observed them during the last fifty years. And the
  personality shown in her writing is one of great intelligence and
  charm.” R. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 23 ‘17 630w

  “The author has apparently spent little time on the ordered
  preparation of her book, but her manner of writing is invariably
  engaging and intelligent.”

     + — =Dial= 63:116 Ag 16 ‘17 420w

  “Her ‘Russian memories’ contain little or nothing that is new or
  important. They suggest the garrulity and magnification of self which
  often goes with old age.”

       — =Nation= 105:181 Ag 16 ‘17 180w

  “Rightly is her book called a book of ‘Memories’; though sprightly,
  amusing, and entertaining, it is emphatically a book of the past.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:221 Je 10 ‘17 580w

  “What the author says concerning such of her own countrymen as
  Dostoevsky, Verestchagin, and Skobelev is of particular moment to the
  student of Russian life.”

       + =Outlook= 116:451 Jl 18 ‘17 150w

  “As she is an uncompromising champion of the old political regime in
  Russia, some of her observations, as touching czarism and Siberia for
  example, seem not a little wide of the mark.”

         =Pittsburgh= 22:405 My ‘17 60w

  “The ‘Holy Russia’ of Madame Novikoff seems almost as remote from the
  Russia of Miliukoff and Kerensky as the England of George III and Lord
  North from the Britain of Lloyd George.”

         =R of Rs= 56:101 Jl ‘17 100w

  “A vivacious and sufficiently self-revealing record of the activities
  of the most energetic of the unofficial promoters of the Anglo-Russian
  entente.”

       + =Spec= 117:509 O 28 ‘16 1450w

  “Its publication in England antedated the great days of March, so that
  it must not be grouped with the rapidly-augmenting library that owes
  its genesis to the revolution.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 26 ‘17 670w

  “This is not a very systematic book, nor is it easy to collect from it
  any consistent series of impressions. ... The later pages, it is true,
  deal with the present war, but many others go back a whole generation,
  so that, as there is no clear marking of the chronology, younger
  readers will be often perplexed as to the relative position of
  events.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p524 N 2 ‘16 670w


=NOXON, FRANK WRIGHT.= Are we capable of self-government? *$1.50 (2c)
Harper 330.9 17-16073

  The author considers the “national problems and policies affecting
  business, 1900-1916.” He “has not tried to answer the question which
  the title of the book propounds, but rather to review the nation’s
  recent legislative and bureaucratic strictures upon organized
  business, sometimes true to the fundamental principles of our
  government, sometimes ludicrously childish and inconsistent, yet,
  because the underlying purpose has been honest rather than vicious,
  making for general progress.” (Introd.) There is a chapter on
  “Backsliding in New England,” one on “The new era in railway
  regulation,” and one on “Organized labor and the law.” The
  introduction is by Harry A. Wheeler, first president of the Chamber of
  commerce of the United States.

  Reviewed by L. E. Robinson

         =Bookm= 46:268 N ‘17 450w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 S 5 ‘17 600w

         =Ind= 91:294 Ag 25 ‘17 100w

  “The author’s study of the various movements will be of interest to
  Socialists in recalling some recent events. His conclusions will be
  found curious, for he often seems to go far in boldness of thought and
  utterance and to miss wholly underlying causes and actual social
  forces.” Frank Macdonald

     – + =N Y Call= p14 Jl 29 ‘17 520w

  “This economic interpretation of current affairs is stimulating in
  high degree. ... It is rather a book for men of business than
  students, and wherever women have the vote or wish to be qualified to
  vote or discuss men’s affairs with men, the book should have women
  readers.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:278 Jl 29 ‘17 1000w

  “While the title of the book might indicate a pessimistic tendency,
  the author really shows that our form of government is favorable to
  the growth of those factors which may by proper cooperation produce
  the best results in both business and political life.”

         =R of Rs= 56:441 O ‘17 100w


=NOYES, ALFRED.= Open boats. *50c (4½c) Stokes 940.91 17-13295

  A book based on the narratives of those who have been sent out in open
  boats after the sinking of vessels by submarines. Mr Noyes has been at
  pains to gather together as many authentic records as possible.
  Contents: Open boats; Sea savagery; The unforeseen; A Prussian;
  Magnificoes and the dead. Two poems are printed by way of prolog and
  epilog.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:20 O ‘17

  “Mr Alfred Noyes touches a chord of response in his readers by his
  facility in rhythmic, picturesque utterance. This facility is often
  fatal to his excellence as a poet, but it adapts itself readily to the
  description of German frightfulness on the high seas, which is the
  subject of this little book of sketches.”

       + =Dial= 63:409 O 25 ‘17 130w

  “The horror of submarine warfare is nowhere made more real than in
  these terse records, drawn from admiralty reports and from the
  accounts by survivors.”

         =Ind= 90:311 My 19 ‘17 25w

         =Pratt= p41 O ‘17 20w

  “Mr Noyes has been out with the British trawlers and has personal
  knowledge of the sea perils that he describes.”

         =R of Rs= 55:669 Je ‘17 50w

       + =Spec= 118:676 Je 16 ‘17 120w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 3 ‘17 260w

  “We wish Mr Noyes would more often leave the nail driven in without
  making assurance doubly sure by hitting it on the head a dozen times
  more. He has had presumably access to documents that are not published
  in the press, but we cannot think that he has succeeded in letting the
  survivors tell their own desperate story in their own vivid and
  unvarnished style.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p364 Ag 2 ‘17 400w


=NYBURG, SIDNEY LAUER.= Chosen people. *$1.40 (1½c) Lippincott 17-26391

  Philip Graetz, a young rabbi, fresh from his studies, is called to
  minister to a wealthy Jewish congregation in Baltimore. Philip is an
  idealist, believing passionately in the unity of the Jewish people and
  in the power of the Hebrew religion to solve all problems. The wide
  gulf that exists between the people of his congregation and the poor
  Jews of the slums is brought home to him in a strike in the clothing
  trade, and the failure of “Jewish ethics” to solve the labor problem
  all but shatters his second ideal. Love brings a bitter experience to
  Philip too, for he learns to care deeply for a girl who is not of his
  own people, and is saved from sacrificing his chosen career only by
  her fine character and sense of values. An interesting character in
  the story is David Gordon, the self-made Russian-Jewish lawyer. He is
  a good foil for Philip, and the fact that they become friends promises
  well for the young dreamer’s future.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:405 Je ‘17

  “In a rough sense this may be called a Jewish ‘Inside of the cup.’” H.
  W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:317 My ‘17 650w

  “A somewhat formal, slightly chaotic and altogether serious story. ...
  Although Mr Nyburg’s style is extraordinarily verbose, although he
  emphasizes trifles and is inclined to lengthy discussions of
  incidents, it is undeniable that in ‘The chosen people’ he has written
  a novel of exceptional quality.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 21 ‘17 950w

  “I have seen few modern American stories so earnest, direct, free from
  palaver and sentimentality. ... The problems of the Jew in America are
  presented but not expounded.” J: Macy

       + =Dial= 62:358 Ap 19 ‘17 350w

  “A book of notable sincerity and dignity, by a Jew who is proud of his
  race, and whose pride exacts much of that race; by an American also,
  who desires that American life may be strengthened and ennobled by her
  Jewish citizens.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 104:404 Ap 5 ‘17 130w

  “In delightful and reassuring contrast [to Cahan’s ‘Rise of David
  Levinsky’] is Mr Nyburg’s ‘The chosen people.’” H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 105:600 N 29 ‘17 80w

  “Refreshing, because it contains none of the conventional
  sentimentality about the Jew found in the average novel about him. ...
  Any one who is in the least familiar with Jews will not fail to
  recognize the prototypes of Arthur Kahn, the cultured ‘cash
  register’; ... and Dr Philip Graetz, the cultured rabbi of this most
  fashionable congregation in the city of Baltimore.” Harry Salpeter

       + =N Y Call= p15 Je 24 ‘17 650w

  “A brilliant piece of work. ... From first to last the book is
  exceptionally interesting. Detailed as it is, it never drags.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:102 Mr 25 ‘17 800w

  “He writes with a simplicity and directness that give the impression
  of one who speaks with authority.” M. K. Reely

       + =Pub W= 91:969 Mr 17 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Nyburg has written a keenly intelligent story which often
  penetrates the hypocrisies of society and shatters the platitudes and
  poses of conspicuous types. He has not conquered a penchant for
  theatrical climaxes, but the story ranks among the most substantial of
  the season’s fiction.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 500w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:159 My ‘17 50w


=NYROP, KRISTOFFER.= Is war civilization? auth. tr. by H. G. Wright.
*$1.25 (2½c) Dodd 940.91 (Eng ed 17-30069)

  A collection of papers on the war by a professor of romance philosophy
  at the University of Copenhagen. They appear to have been written at
  different times, but have been arranged in a logical sequence to
  conform with a definite plan: “The general introduction is followed by
  four chapters dealing with the devastation in Belgium and northern
  France, after which, by a natural succession, there come the manifesto
  of the ninety-three and the replies to the same. War of necessity
  leads to annexation, which in its turn involves tyranny, and some of
  the questions connected with this are dealt with in the next three
  chapters. The movement of the irredentists in Italy proves to what an
  extent the suppression of nationality produces explosive matter and so
  Italy’s attitude to the war has been made the object of special
  investigation. Finally, in a few brief sections, I have endeavoured to
  throw some light on the relations between war and religion, and war
  and languages, whilst in the last chapter I have drawn attention to
  that civitas Dei for the establishment of which all mankind ought
  harmoniously to unite.” (Preface)

       + =Ath= p531 O ‘17 160w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p407 Ag 23 ‘17 110w

  “If there were nothing more in the volume than the extracts which
  Professor Nyrop gathers together from authors little known here, all
  showing the persistency and boundless arrogance of the modern German,
  the book would be useful.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p422 S 6 ‘17 500w


=NYSTROM, PAUL HENRY.= Retail store management. il $2 LaSalle extension
univ. 658 17-6655

  “This book is intended primarily as a textbook for students of the
  retailing process, and is general in character rather than descriptive
  of technical matters. The chief merchandising problems are presented
  clearly and concisely. The author realizes the need of giving to those
  engaged in retail business a broad view of the field, in order to
  counteract the narrowing tendencies of intensive routine work. The
  necessary theoretical matter is presented by means of illustrations
  taken from actual experiences of merchants. Reality without minute
  detail is the spirit of the work. Particular forms of retailing—chain
  stores, department stores, and so on—are not mentioned in the
  treatise. Location, organization, accounting, buying, sales, and
  pricing, the factors whose management means success or failure in any
  retail establishment, large or small, receive thorough treatment.
  House policies, especially with reference to direct dealings with
  customers and employees, are commented on. Several of the
  merchandising functions are illustrated by simple, well-organized
  charts, and a few carefully selected forms give hints of possible
  methods for controlling the work of the different functions.”—J Pol
  Econ

  “‘Retail store management’ is closely related to the author’s other
  books, ‘Retail selling and store management’ (Appleton, 1914) and ‘The
  economics of retailing’ (Ronald press, 1915). Taken together, Dr
  Nystrom’s books constitute no small part of the recent useful
  literature of modern retailing. The Appleton text is bipartite and
  makes the three repetitive; the portions on store management should be
  transferred to the LaSalle text and the three texts would then have
  more or less exclusive fields.” R. B. Westerfield

       + =Am Econ R= 7:641 S ‘17 400w

  “It is intensely matter-of-fact. And, in spite of its prosaic subject,
  it is interestingly written.” F. H. Hankins

       + =Am J Soc= 22:849 My ‘17 150w

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:640 Je ‘17 170w

  “Dr Nystrom finds call for the course of instruction he lays down in
  ‘Retail store management’ in his conviction that a very large
  percentage of the three million and more Americans engaged in retail
  trade are incapable and inefficient. ... He strongly urges that
  everybody connected with retail trading should be fitted as well as
  possible for the work he is expected to perform. Study of Dr Nystrom’s
  book will tend to show the soundness of this view, while at the same
  time it will give a practical response to the need of knowledge and
  training the author so thoroughly demonstrates.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:130 Ap 8 ‘17 250w




                                   O


=OBERHOLTZER, ELLIS PAXSON.= History of the United States since the
Civil war. 5v v 1 *$3.50 (4½c) Macmillan 973.8 (17-28462)

  =v 1= 1865-8.

  The first of a five-volume work whose title suggests the scope. This
  installment begins immediately after the assassination of Lincoln in
  1865 and covers three years to the impeachment of Johnson. The social,
  economic, political and commercial development of those years is
  interpreted in terms corresponding to this generation’s needs. The
  writer puts to the period questions that have never been asked before
  because they are questions that have grown out of the conditions of
  modern progress. General headings: President Johnson; The South after
  the war; Congress in control; The triumphant North; Beyond the
  Mississippi; The Indians; War upon the president; Mexico, Ireland and
  Alaska.

  “It is a storehouse of detail; every page carries the evidence of
  comprehensive and discriminating research. The author holds a judicial
  restraint upon his own views. He is expert in searching for the events
  and the views of those sharing in the making of history. Like Mr
  Rhodes’s Mr Oberholtzer’s vision of American achievement embraces more
  than politics.” L. E. Robinson

       + =Bookm= 46:596 Ja ‘18 1150w

  “Mr Oberholtzer writes with vigor and often with discrimination, in
  easy, flowing style, and he holds the attention of the reader with
  firmness.” E. J. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 5 ‘17 450w

  “The strong points of the present volume are its remarkable portrayals
  of life and conditions; its weak ones are those which must become more
  apparent as the succeeding instalments come out. Indirect discourse,
  quotations from racy contemporary sources, pen pictures of eminent
  men, must hold the reader’s interest for a while; but five volumes of
  this tend to confuse and weary, and one begins to wonder what it is
  all about. After all the historian must be more than a reporter.”

     + — =Nation= 105:636 D 6 ‘17 1650w

  “What makes the book especially interesting is the attention given to
  the more picturesque and less well known phases of our achievement.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:531 D 2 ‘17 500w

  “Some readers will not altogether like the leanings of this work as to
  political questions; some will think the historian’s sense of
  proportion somewhat defective; but no one can deny that the author
  makes the past live again.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:514 N 28 ‘17 80w

  “Mr Oberholtzer has faithfully studied the abundant sources of
  information concerning this period and his copious footnotes
  constitutes a valuable bibliography.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 11 ‘18 700w


=O’BRIEN, CHARLES.= Food preparedness for the United States. *60c (4c)
Little 940.91 17-17192

  “In September, 1916, the author went to Germany to study economic
  conditions, particularly those regarding food supply. ... This book is
  designed to point out to the individual some of the factors involved
  and the lessons to be learned from the experiences of the European
  belligerents, particularly Germany ... who, in rationing her people
  according to her available supplies, has done so on a basis that was
  outlined by scientific nutrition experts.” (Author’s foreword)

         =Am Econ R= 7:848 D ‘17 50w

  “Brief but interesting and suggestive.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:46 N ‘17

  “This little book should be sent broadcast over the land.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 490w

         =Cleveland= p119 N ‘17 50w

  “Though much of the advice has been already followed in the passage of
  the Food bill and the work of the Food administration, and some of the
  information has already been made clear, the volume contains a great
  deal that is still interesting, practical, and valuable for us all.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:395 O 14 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:767 N ‘17 40w

       + =R of Rs= 56:213 Ag ‘17 190w

         =St Louis= 15:358 O ‘17 20w

  “He is weakest in his comment on applied scientific nutrition.” Bruno
  Lasker

     + — =Survey= 39:73 O 20 ‘17 570w


=O’BRIEN, EDWARD JOSEPH HARRINGTON=, ed. Best short stories of 1916, and
the Yearbook of the American short story. *$1.50 (1c) Small

  This is the second volume of Mr O’Brien’s short story annual. Again he
  has selected twenty stories which in his judgment represent the best
  short stories of the year. First place is given to Richard Matthews
  Hallet’s “Making port,” a story reprinted from Every Week. In addition
  to the twenty stories reprinted, the volume contains the “Roll of
  honor” for 1916, a critical summary of fifty-two stories of the year,
  the rating of the magazines on the basis of the number of distinctive
  stories published, etc. Mr O’Brien finds the outlook for the American
  short story hopeful. He says: “Our artists are beginning to think of
  life wholly in terms of the individual, and to substitute the warmth
  of the individual in place of the generalised and sentimentalised
  types to which our American public has been so whole-heartedly
  accustomed.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:343 My ‘17

         =Cath World= 105:257 My ‘17 250w

  “I am not sure that Mr Edward O’Brien’s ‘Best short stories of the
  year’ will not contribute their own share to the progressive decline
  of the short-story in America, for he is creating standards which a
  real criticism should resolutely reject.” M. M. Colum

       — =Dial= 62:345 Ap 19 ‘17 1300w

  “In spite of the most honest intention, it is impossible to take this
  sort of book seriously. The reprinting of twenty stories, the
  summarizing of fifty more, and the sober printing of a roll of
  honor—Baedekerized up to three stars—presupposes the existence of
  fixed canons of literary judgment beyond either the will or the power
  of humankind to achieve.”

       — =Nation= 104:548 My 3 ‘17 200w

  “Whether or not one may differ with Mr O’Brien about any particular
  story in the collection, there is no room for any question about the
  excellence and value and representative quality of the collection as a
  whole.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:82 Mr 11 ‘17 730w

  “For the first time in my life I have read twenty successive stories
  and enjoyed every one.” M. A. Hopkins

       + =Pub W= 91:583 F 17 ‘17 450w


=O’BRIEN, EDWARD JOSEPH HARRINGTON.= White fountains; odes and lyrics.
*$1 Small 811 17-11680

  Mr O’Brien’s book of poetry is made up of two parts. The first
  contains two remarkable odes, “Flesh” and “Flower.” The second is a
  small collection of lyrics. In his odes, the poet has tried the
  experiment of adapting the form of the Gregorian plain chant to the
  demands of English verse.

  “There has always been a quiet insistence about Mr O’Brien’s poetic
  work, which now confined within a volume, challenges the attention of
  all poetry lovers.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 28 ‘17 750w

       + =Cleveland= p65 My ‘17 90w

  “The second ode is a mystic poem of serene beauty and deep
  significance. The first is more like Whitman’s ‘Children of Adam’ than
  anything else in American poetry which I have read, and it is marred
  by the same lack of humor, judgment, self-criticism. ... No more
  rarified and ethereal poetry is to be found than he has given us in
  the small group of lyrics at the end of his book. If, to the fine
  Celtic qualities already so clear in his verse, he could but add
  humour, restraint, poise, clarity—why then he would cease to be an
  Irish poet, and that is a thing not to be thought of.” Odell Shepard

     + — =Dial= 63:19 Je 28 ‘17 550w

  “A number of very good short lyrics are included in the volume.”

       + =Ind= 91:135 Jl 28 ‘17 40w

  “The two odes, ‘Flesh’ and ‘Flower’ have certain flashes of splendor
  and an effortless beauty. The type arrangement, or line structure,
  used by Mr O’Brien lessens the poetic value to the average reader.”

     + — =R of Rs= 56:217 Ag ‘17 130w


=O’BRIEN, PETER O’BRIEN, baron.= Reminiscences of the Right Hon. Lord
O’Brien (of Kilfenora); ed. by his daughter Georgina O’Brien. *$2.50
Longmans 17-1646

  “This book takes us over the long range from the Irish famine to the
  opening days of the great war. It introduces us to many personages who
  made history in those times. Queen Victoria, Gladstone, Earl Spencer,
  Monsignor Persico, Isaac Butt, Charles Stewart Parnell, and Lord
  Russell of Killowen, are some of the persons whom we meet in its
  pages. Those who are interested in Irish history come upon striking
  side-lights in the stirring period covered by Lord O’Brien’s life. ...
  His official conduct was characterized by great devotion to duty and
  courage in the midst of much unpopularity and numerous protests and
  threats. ... His career as prosecuting attorney for the crown brought
  him in later years the notable reward of appointment as lord chief
  justice for Ireland.”—Cath World

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:312 Ap ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 20 ‘17 350w

  “The style of the book, the more considerable part of which is in the
  Judge’s own words—twenty-two chapters out of thirty-one—is marked by
  simplicity and directness. ... His daughter prepared the manuscript
  for publication, and added some chapters of her own which throw a new
  charm over the pages. ... A complete and useful index is given at the
  end of the volume.”

       + =Cath World= 104:692 F ‘17 300w

  “It was a rather meagre record which Lord O’Brien left prepared at his
  death (in 1914), and its piecing out in this volume by his daughter
  adds little of real consequence. Politically, the most important part
  of the book is that relating to the Irish Invincibles. The pages are
  but rarely lighted up by Irish wit, though the reader is often told,
  somewhat exasperatingly, of amusing stories or clever reports which he
  is asked to take on faith.”

     + — =Nation= 104:81 Ja 18 ‘17 120w

  “These reminiscences of Lord O’Brien are of the most importance for
  the years 1880 to 1888.”

       + =Sat R= 123:40 Ja 13 ‘17 1000w

  “His reminiscences are pleasantly readable, and show why the Judge,
  with his humor and love of sport, was always popular in Ireland.”

       + =Spec= 117:sup610 N 18 ‘16 120w

  “Even an enemy must be impressed by the kindliness and the honesty,
  the modesty and the courage, of the personality here revealed.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p511 O 26 ‘16 1050w


=ODLING, WILLIAM.= Technic of versification. *4s 6d Parker & co., Oxford
426.2

  “The greater part of this book is a selection of mostly well-known
  verses, classified according to the rhythmic character of the
  excerpts, and preceded by thirty pages of introductory notes and
  illustrations. Following the preface is a short list of some early
  works on versification to be found in the Bodleian library.”—Ath

  “To those without facilities for a study of the longer treatise upon
  the art of versification, the present volume should be useful. The
  extracts chosen range in date from 1400 to 1913. The book has neither
  an index nor a table of contents.”

     + — =Ath= p585 D ‘16 90w

  “One can scarcely be grateful for the writer’s seeming ignorance of
  the literature of the subject, or his indifference to the conventional
  use of technical terms. ... The terminology is often interesting, but
  certainly as often questionable.”

       — =Nation= 104:547 My 3 ‘17 400w

  “Professor Odling’s scansion is not always convincing, but his
  systematic analysis of our poetic forms will interest a good many
  people.”

     + — =Spec= 117:660 N 25 ‘16 60w


=OEMLER, MARIE CONWAY.= Slippy McGee; sometimes known as the Butterfly
man. *$1.35 (1c) Century 17-13219

  Slippy McGee, the cleverest crook in America, making his getaway on a
  freight train, falls and is terribly mangled. When he awakens he finds
  himself in the parish house of a little South Carolina town, crippled
  for life. His one piece of luggage, his burglar’s kit, has
  disappeared, and he does not know till long afterwards when an
  emergency calls for it, that the parish priest has hidden it inside
  the statue of St Stanislaus in the church. Father De Rancé’s interest
  in butterflies and moths is the instrument that saves the soul of
  Slippy McGee. But it is little Mary Virginia who points the way,
  suggesting that the slender, supple hands, the hands of the cleverest
  cracksman in America, be employed in mounting specimens. Slippy McGee
  thereafter becomes the Butterfly man. Only once does he take on his
  old character, and then it is in the interest of this same Mary
  Virginia. After that one occurrence the cracksman’s tools go back into
  the keeping of St Stanislaus, to stay.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:451 Jl ‘17

  “However she may choose to employ these conventions of the
  story-romancer’s art, it is notable that Mrs Oemler, herself a
  southerner, takes a vigorous fling at more than one shibboleth,
  notably that hollow convention of colonel-ism and ‘southern chivalry’
  which story-tellers have been wont to handle so tenderly.” H. W.
  Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:409 Je ‘17 350w

  “One of the pleasant novels of the year.”

       + =Ind= 91:188 Ag 4 ‘17 60w

  “A certain freshness and gusto rescue the story from melodramatic and
  sentimental fatuity, and render it acceptable in its kind.”

       + =Nation= 104:736 Je 21 ‘17 330w

  “Unmarred by so much as a single touch of mawkishness or cant, the
  story is related with sincerity and charm.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:166 Ap 29 ‘17 500w

  “In spite of melodrama the book is pleasant from beginning to end, and
  ‘Slippy McGee’ is a creation the reader does not forget.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 420w


Official register and directory of women’s clubs in America. v 19 il pa
$2 H. M. Winslow. Shirley, Mass. 374.2

  The preface states: “This is our nineteenth annual ‘Club register.’
  The first appeared in 1898 and covered Massachusetts only. The next
  volume covered New England, and a little later we covered the whole
  country. ... This is the only directory in the world that covers all
  the federated clubs.” The text treats of the General federation of
  women’s clubs, listing officers, etc., then takes up clubs
  alphabetically by states and their cities giving the number of members
  and the name of the president of each club. The editor draws attention
  to the classified list of club lecturers and entertainers found at the
  end of the volume.


=OGDEN, GEORGE WASHINGTON.= Rustler of Wind River. il $1.30 (1½c)
McClurg 17-10160

  A fight between the cattle barons who had for years had control of the
  free ranges and the settlers who had come in to homestead the land is
  the basis of this story. To cover up the criminality of their
  proceedings, the cattle men had spread the rumor that the settlers
  were a band of rustlers and had branded Alan Macdonald, their leader,
  as a desperado and an outlaw. Saul Chadron had put a price on
  Macdonald’s head and his hired gunman was on the man’s trail. But at
  her first meeting with Macdonald, Frances Landcraft, daughter of the
  commander of the military post, knows that these tales are false, and
  she thereafter takes his part. Her judgment is vindicated, and the
  homesteaders’ cause is won.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:98 D ‘17

  “The characters hold together well and when the most original ones are
  presented together, as in the case of the leading cattle-baron and his
  murder-tool, the passage between them is strong in its conception and
  admirably phrased and described.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p9 O 20 ‘17 210w

  “A tale well worth the reading, not for its interest alone, but
  because of its historic value as a picture of the West in the days
  when might made right.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:218 Je 3 ‘17 160w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 250w


=OGDEN, HENRY ALEXANDER=, comp. Our flag and our songs. il *60c Clode,
E: J. 929.9 17-22075

  A brief account of the origin and history of the United States flag,
  together with eighteen patriotic and other well-known songs, ranging
  from “The star-spangled banner” to “My old Kentucky home” and “When
  this cruel war is over.” The songs are credited to their authors.


=OGG, FREDERIC AUSTIN.= Economic development of modern Europe. *$2.50
(1c) Macmillan 330.9 17-13473

  Frederic Austin Ogg is associate professor of political science in the
  University of Wisconsin and author of “Social progress in contemporary
  Europe,” some chapters of which have been reproduced, with
  considerable modification, in the present volume. In deciding “what
  topics to include, and what space to allow to each, Professor Ogg
  followed these principles: to devote most of his attention to the
  nineteenth century, contenting himself with a summary sketch of
  preceding conditions; to omit from consideration the more technical
  aspects of economic history, such as public finance; and to confine
  himself in general to the history of three leading countries, the
  United Kingdom, France, and Germany. ... Part 1. ‘Antecedents of
  nineteenth-century growth,’ occupies 114 pages. ... Part 2,
  ‘Agriculture, industry, and trade since 1815,’ pages 117-340, covers
  the development of production in the leading countries, with an added
  chapter on Russia; part 3, ‘Population and labour,’ pages 343-474, is
  devoted mainly to the organization and regulation of labor, and part
  4, pages 477-641, treats of ‘Socialism and social insurance.’” (Am
  Econ R) There are bibliographies at the end of each chapter.

  “He has read widely, uses his authorities with discrimination, selects
  and arranges his materials skilfully, and sets forth his product in
  good English. He is accurate. ... Altogether, his book offers the best
  survey known to the reviewer of the recent economic history of
  Europe.” Clive Day

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:608 S ‘17 580w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:429 Jl ‘17

  Reviewed by Edgar Dawson

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:151 F ‘18 250w

  “The best single volume on the subject. ... Professor Ogg has depended
  for the most part upon secondary sources and most of these are written
  in English. ... In the chapter on Russia there is not a single
  reference to a German authority, although that is the chief source of
  information for one who does not read Russian. The bibliographies at
  the end of each chapter ... have not received the same careful
  attention which the author gave to the text, for there are not
  infrequent errors in titles, in spelling, etc.” E. L. Bogart

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 73:237 S ‘17 450w

  “Of especial interest are the chapters on socialism and on social
  insurance.”

       + =Cleveland= p123 N ‘17 30w

  “The book might almost serve as a complete history of Europe from the
  early eighteenth century to the outbreak of the great war.”

       + =Ind= 90:437 Je 2 ‘17 160w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:690 O ‘17 20w

         =R of Rs= 56:215 Ag ‘17 130w

  “His narrative is, on the whole, clear and accurate, and his elaborate
  bibliographies will be useful to students of special topics. His
  remarks on the political activity of the German Socialists, written no
  doubt before the war, now require revision.”

       + =Spec= 119:sup630 D 1 ‘17 110w

  “The book will be found particularly useful as a reference source on
  the modern labor movement including the related politics, and the
  paternalistic enterprises chiefly concerning the working class. It
  gives much evidence of the author’s thorough study of the available
  data and scholarly fairness of presentation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 13 ‘17 900w

  “In many of the historical instances which it gives, this volume also
  brings surprisingly telling lessons for our own time. The
  bibliographical references accompanying each chapter are without
  serious omission and most useful to the student. The judgment
  exercised in selection and in the discussion of controversial subjects
  throughout the book is admirable.” Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 39:200 N 24 ‘17 380w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p334 Jl 12 ‘17 80w


=OHIO COMPANY OF ASSOCIATES.= Minutes and proceedings of the Ohio
company of associates; ed. by Archer Butler Hulbert. (Marietta college.
Historical collections) $2.50 Marietta historical commission, Marietta
college, Marietta, O. 977.1

  “This is the first of a series of volumes which will contain original
  records, letters, etc., illustrating the settlement and development of
  southeastern Ohio. There is a long introduction by the editor treating
  of the origin of the Ohio company, the part taken in its formation by
  Rufus Putnam, Manasseh Cutler, and other leaders, the relation between
  the Ohio and Scioto companies, and a summary of the land, financial,
  and ‘paternalistic’ policies of the company. The text of the records
  covers the period from 1786 to December 21, 1789, and shows, in part,
  why New England influences were so important in this section. ...
  These records vividly illustrate the capitalistic as contrasted with
  the individualistic method of promoting the settlement and development
  of a new region.” (Am Hist R) “The work, when completed, will contain
  the name of probably every man of importance in the early annals of
  the state of Ohio. ... The records are presented as they appear in the
  writing of the various secretaries, in the large sheep-bound volumes
  presented to the college by William R. Putnam, the papers having been
  preserved carefully by the Putnam family.” (Boston Transcript) The
  editor is professor of American history in Marietta college, Ohio.

  “The introduction as a whole is exceedingly well written, and for the
  first time adequately presents the story of the founding of the
  company and its influence. The form, appearance, and editing of the
  book are excellent. Historical students are fortunate in being assured
  that the editorship of this series is in such competent hands, and we
  shall look forward eagerly to the completion of a series that will
  contain one of the most important collections of sources for the study
  of this section of the west.” M. W. Jernegan

       + =Am Hist R= 23:188 O ‘17 600w

  “Professor Hulbert devotes 137 pages to a succinct history of the Ohio
  company and the ‘Scioto right.’ While these subjects have been treated
  by previous writers, Professor Hulbert’s paper is such an admirable
  presentation of the theme, apart from its value as an introduction to
  the series, that no apology is necessary for its appearance. It gives
  the reader of the original documents a solid groundwork of information
  regarding the history of the company from its inception in the bounty
  land offers made by the Continental congress to prospective soldiers.”
  G. H. S.

     * + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 23 ‘17 700w


=OHLSON, HAROLD.= Dancing hours. *$1.25 (1c) Lane 17-2486

  Jane Eastwood is the daughter of a deceased pawnbroker. A comfortable
  income, an unpleasant memory of her parent and a bundle of old letters
  are Jane’s inheritance. With the bundle of letters, she blackmails her
  way into society. Jane has red hair and she instantly becomes a
  popular success. She would have carried the affair off with perfect
  ease, but alas, the past has a way of not remaining the past. It
  intrudes itself into the present. But Jane has won the affection of
  her blackmailed patroness, and she finds another friend, too, who
  stands by her and sees her through.

  “It is splendid to be able to bury oneself in a novel without the
  horrible suspicion that one is being ‘improved’ or imposed upon by
  some sugar-tongued propagandist. ‘The dancing hours’ pretends to be no
  more than a story, but what a story! Here is all the antiquated lumber
  of mysterious heroines, dashing and handsome villains, manly and
  long-suffering heroes, unexpected wealth, and happy endings.”

       + =Dial= 62:107 F 8 ‘17 150w

  “The story begins well but becomes too preposterous to wear the garb
  of credibility. It has some clever bits, and the conversations are
  well sustained.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:75 Mr 4 ‘17 200w

       + =Spec= 118:141 F 3 ‘17 80w


=OLCOTT, FRANCES JENKINS.= Red Indian fairy book for the children’s own
reading and for story-tellers. il *$2 (3c) Houghton 17-25283

  Sixty-four stories from Indian folk legend have been chosen for this
  volume. As most of the stories are nature myths, they lend themselves
  readily to the arrangement by seasons which Miss Olcott has chosen.
  She says, “In choosing themes for these stories, a large body of
  folklore of many tribes has been gone over. In retelling, all that is
  coarse, fierce, and irrational has been eliminated as far as possible,
  and the moral and fanciful elements retained. The plots have been more
  closely constructed, and retold in the direct manner interesting to
  children. The character and spirit of the original stories have been
  carefully preserved.” The illustrations, including frontispiece in
  color, are by Frederick Richardson. Many of the stories have been
  printed in the Saturday Magazines of the New York Evening Post.

  “Sixty-four stories delightfully told; they will interest any child of
  fairy tale age.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:101 D ‘17

  “Miss Olcott has a real love and a real inspiration for her task. Her
  re-treatment of materials from the ‘Arabian nights’ more than
  justified itself. In the present book she has made a more distinct and
  original contribution to child-lore.” J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:494 D ‘17 310w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 50w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 14 ‘17 330w

  “Miss Olcott has added two valuable volumes to this season’s output of
  juvenile books. They should prove rich source-books for the
  professional story-teller. She is happy in maintaining that naïve
  simplicity which lies always at the basis of Indian legends.”

       + =Lit D= 55:54 D 8 ‘17 70w

         =N Y Times= 22:512 D 2 ‘17 70w


=OLCOTT, FRANCES JENKINS.= Tales of the Persian genii. il *$2 (3½c)
Houghton 17-29800

  These stories from old Persian tales, adapted for boys and girls, are
  retold from authentic translations. One of these sources, “Tales of
  the genii; or, The delightful lessons of Horam the son of Asmar,”
  appeared in England in 1765, ran thru many editions, and formed part
  of the youthful library of Charles Dickens. Miss Olcott says, “All the
  stories have been recast with great freedom, and moulded into a
  continuous narrative; the aim being to keep them truly oriental and at
  the same time to preserve all the detail that will delight the
  imaginative modern boy and girl.” Each story has an ethical lesson,
  but in addition to their moral teaching, she believes they will foster
  a love of rich color and an appreciation of beautiful objects. The
  pictures are by Willy Pogány.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:137 Ja ‘18

  “The reteller of these oriental tales has gathered her material
  carefully, both in its fictional quality and in its atmospheric
  background. She has been greatly aided by the colorful imagination of
  the Hungarian artist, Willy Pogány.”

       + =Lit D= 55:54 D 8 ‘17 70w

         =N Y Times= 22:512 D 2 ‘17 70w

  “The stories will prove very entertaining for they transport the
  reader to fragrant oriental gardens where many-colored birds and a
  thousand fountains make music all day.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 280w


=OLGIN, MOISSAYE JOSEPH.= Soul of the Russian revolution. il *$2.50 (2c)
Holt 947 17-27862

  In the year 1901-‘02 the author of this book was a student in the
  University of Kiev. He was one of 200 students who were sentenced to
  one year’s military service in punishment for political activity. In
  1905-‘06 he took part in the thwarted revolutionary uprising. He is
  now in New York and has written this book in English for American
  readers. He has attempted to give a review of the movement as a whole
  and to show the character of the different elements concerned in the
  revolution. The first of the four parts which compose the work deals
  with Social forces. Part 2 covers the years 1905 and 1906, and the
  establishment of the Duma. Part 3 draws on Russian revolutionary
  literature as an aid to understanding the spirit of the movement. Part
  4 covers the actual revolution of 1917 up to the formal abdication of
  the czar. The illustrations are taken from revolutionary periodicals,
  most of which were not allowed to circulate. Vladimir G. Simkhovitch
  contributes an introduction.

  “A popular but scholarly study.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:162 F ‘18

         =Boston Transcript= p9 D 5 ‘17 600w

  “He is silent on hidden motivating forces which reveal the moral
  poignancy of the Russian struggle for the civilized world. The people,
  the soul and meaning of their revolt, are absent; what we have is the
  story of the industrial proletariat led and betrayed by a militant
  revolutionary minority. All Russian life is looked at from the vantage
  ground of party bias. The main value of Mr Olgin’s book consists in
  the clear exposition of the revolution of 1905 and the exposé of the
  ideology of the professional revolutionists.”

     – + =Nation= 105:638 D 6 ‘17 1300w

  “It is impossible to read him without gratitude for his clarity, his
  objectivity, his documentation; and impossible not to conclude from
  reading him that the first fact about Russia is still the Tsardom that
  has been deposed.” F. H.

       + =New Repub= 13:220 D 22 ‘17 1450w

  “Mr Olgin has succeeded wonderfully well in clarifying and defining
  for American readers, who really know very little about any other than
  superficial aspects of Russian affairs, the origin and significance of
  the many varied currents of influence and tendency that led
  revolution-ward. In the third section Mr Olgin does something that all
  readers of Russian literature will thank him for and makes a novel
  attempt to link Russian literature and Russian life.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:14 Ja 13 ‘18 820w

  “The author has true dramatic power.”

       + =Outlook= 117:654 D 19 ‘17 80w

  “To trace the varied economic and political influences at work for all
  those centuries of Russia’s history was indeed an enormous task. No
  one man could hope to accomplish it completely, even to his own
  satisfaction, but we are not likely to see in our time a better résumé
  of this complicated subject than has been provided by this Russian
  journalist.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:214 F ‘18 220w


=OLIVER, SIR THOMAS.= Occupations from the social, hygienic and medical
points of view. (Cambridge public health ser.) *$1.80 (5c) Putnam 613.6
(Eng ed 16-15036)

  A book devoted to the relation of occupations to health. It has to do
  with conditions in England but will doubtless prove of value to all
  who are interested in similar problems in America. The work was begun
  before the war and problems rising out of war conditions are not
  touched on. The subjects covered are: The air we breathe; The air of
  factories, workshops and workrooms; Work, wages, efficiency and
  fatigue; The health and comfort of the worker; Occupation and age
  fitness; Choice of a career; Dusty occupations; Gases; The chemical
  trades; Injuries caused by electricity; The skin and occupation.

  “It will prove valuable and interesting to public health workers, and
  will give much information to the general citizen who wants a
  bird’seye view of the subject.” Carl Kelsey

       + =Ann Am Acad= 70:330 Mr ‘17 90w

  “Although the book contains a mass of interesting information, the
  reader constantly receives the impression that he is being presented
  with a succession of disconnected and unrelated statements. No stress
  has been laid upon fundamental principles. ... The least satisfactory
  portions of the book are those dealing with the causation of fatigue,
  and with the action of gases on the body; these are not up to
  date. ... In spite of these defects the book contains much that is
  useful, especially in the chapters on factory hygiene and on dusty
  occupations, and although it cannot be recommended from a scientific
  point of view it may prove of value to the general reader.” F. A. B.

     + — =Nature= 97:377 Jl 6 ‘16 570w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:125 Ag ‘16

         =Pratt= p23 Ja ‘17

       + =Sat R= 121:422 Ap 29 ‘16 1500w


=OLMSTEAD, FLORENCE.= Anchorage. *$1.35 (2c) Scribner 17-12956

  “A cloistered romance,” a story of the Little sisters of the poor, and
  “Father Bernard’s parish,” a book presenting an unusual aspect of New
  York life, are the two novels by the author that precede this one. For
  her third book, she has chosen still another setting, a quiet country
  community in Georgia. The friendship between Paul Osborne and Harriet
  Sterling had flowed on quietly for many years. The man was a
  semi-invalid, shut out by his lameness from active participation in
  life. In his friend Harriet, he found companionship and the
  encouragement and mental stimulation his brilliant powers required.
  Harriet, on her part, found satisfaction in serving him, and if her
  heart asked for more than this, she gave no indication. This is the
  situation when Harriet’s young cousin Hilda comes to visit her. Hilda
  brings a new element into Paul’s life. She comes and goes, leaving
  bitterness behind her, but out of the bitterness grows wisdom and an
  understanding of the gift that had always lain ready at his hand.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:451 Jl ‘17

  “Miss Olmstead places her scene in Georgia, but her characters seem
  rather typically of New England. Many individual personages are
  admirably set out in the tale, so admirably that the reader is a
  little impatient they should be wasted on so trite a plot.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 150w

         =Nation= 105:40 Jl 12 ‘17 220w

  “The young girl Hilda, the best-drawn character in the book, is very
  cleverly drawn indeed. ... Louisa, the middle-aged, commonsense
  spinster, is also cleverly sketched, and would be amusing if we did
  not hear quite so much about her. But Paul, around whose character and
  whose invalidism the entire story revolves, never becomes more than a
  lay figure.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:195 My 20 ‘17 450w


=ONIONS, BERTA RUCK (MRS OLIVER ONIONS).= Girls at his billet. il *$1.40
(1½c) Dodd 16-23626

  The three of them, Evelyn, Nancy and Elizabeth, their ages ranging
  from eighteen to twenty-two, lived in what Elizabeth called “a
  God-forsaken village on the bleakest part of the east coast of
  England.” They lived with an elderly aunt and their lives were as
  bleak as the coast itself, for the village was devoid of men. Then
  comes the war and the establishment of a training camp in their midst
  and the billeting of a young officer in their very household. But what
  is one man among three girls! So two friends and fellow-officers are
  brought forward and in course of time (and not a very long time),
  there are three war-time engagements to be announced.

  “Light, pleasant, and showing none of the horrible side of the war.
  Not as entertaining as her other books.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:356 My ‘17

  “The novel is, of course, the lightest sort of whipped cream fiction,
  but few purveyors of that delicacy whip their cream to so dainty and
  airy a froth as does Berta Ruck. ... Moreover, she writes with a
  certain joyousness which is very attractive.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:115 Ap 1 ‘17 350w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:159 My ‘17 50w


=ONIONS, BERTA RUCK (MRS OLIVER ONIONS).= Miss Million’s maid; a romance
of love and fortune. il *$1.40 (1c) Dodd 15-21422

  Miss Million’s maid is Miss Million’s former mistress, Beatrice
  Lovelace. When the little Cockney maid of all work inherits a fortune
  from an uncle who lived in America and leaves Aunt Anastasia Lovelace,
  Beatrice, who has tired of her aunt’s maxim, “Better no society than
  the wrong society,” runs away and persuades the highly embarrassed
  Miss Million to take her as lady’s maid. They go to the Hotel Cecil,
  lovers appear on the scene and many complications ensue.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:170 F ‘18

  “Mrs Onions treats the complications with ready humour and
  considerable freshness. Her characters are much more probable than her
  story.”

     + — =Ath= p244 My ‘16 50w

  “Not so clever as certain of Berta Ruck’s novels, but pleasant and
  entertaining.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:468 N 11 ‘17 420w

  “A very diverting and by no means unexciting story, which, considering
  the motif, loses nothing by the note of caricature which runs through
  the whole.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p203 Ap 27 ‘16 140w


Operation and tactical use of the Lewis automatic machine rifle; based
on the experience of the European war. il *60c Van Nostrand 355 17-20406

  This pocket manual, clearly printed and illustrated, has an
  introduction by Col. I. N. Lewis, U.S.A. (retired). Colonel Lewis
  says: “The descriptive text is full and accurate in detail, while the
  system of preliminary and practical field instruction as outlined
  follows closely that now employed at the various machine gun schools
  and special instruction camps in England and France. In our own
  service, the machine gun is as yet a new and untried weapon, and I
  therefore believe the general principles governing the present
  operation and tactical use on the great battlefield of Europe, as
  briefly presented herein, will be of interest to all officers,
  non-commissioned officers, and men of our army, navy and marine
  corps.”

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p16 Jl ‘17 50w


=OPPENHEIM, EDWARD PHILLIPS.= Cinema murder. il *$1.35 (1½c) Little
17-15545

  One likes Philip Romilly from the first and continues to like him thru
  all his checkered career; yet, all the time, one wonders if he really
  did murder his cousin back there under the bridge in England. When he
  takes passage for America he is traveling under Douglas Romilly’s name
  and wearing his clothes. Once arrived in New York, he adopts another
  name and begins a new life. On board ship he had made friends with
  Elizabeth Dalstan, the actress, who later produces his play. She is
  ready to go further to show her loyalty to him, and the question of
  his guilt is of no concern to her. Fortunately for their future
  happiness the one person in the world who knows the real truth about
  the occurrence under the bridge puts in an appearance at the most
  critical moment.

  “His portrayal of stage life is as before, highly idealized and ultra
  romantic, and it brings to the reader all the glamour of the
  footlights that persists in the midst of those who know nothing of
  life behind the scenes. But realities are not Mr Oppenheim’s forte,
  and we are certain to like the stories he tells all the better because
  they are not.” A. A. R.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 380w

  “Suggests that it does not pay to be too good in this world. The
  outcome of the story justifies the hero in his departure from
  rectitude.”

       — =Dial= 63:73 Jl 19 ‘17 150w

  “A swiftly moving story, so cleverly told that its weak spots are
  easily overlooked, with plenty of color and many effective contrasts.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:214 Je 3 ‘17 400w

  “Not one of Mr Oppenheim’s best stories either in writing or
  construction. Few habitual readers of crime stories will fail to guess
  early in the tale, at least in a general way, the true outcome of the
  murder mystery.”

       — =Outlook= 116:160 My 23 ‘17 39w

  “It will be well for Mr Oppenheim, if he intends further to employ the
  American vernacular, to take a course in George Ade. ... The story is
  characteristic and therefore diverting.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 350w


=OPPENHEIM, EDWARD PHILLIPS.= Hillman. il *$1.35 (1½c) Little 17-698

  Mr Oppenheim has laid aside his preoccupation with international
  intrigues to tell a love story. Louise Maurel, a distinguished
  actress, motoring from Edinburgh to London, is stranded in the
  Cumberland hills. Her car breaks down and she is forced to accept the
  grudgingly offered hospitality of Stephen Strangewey for a night.
  Stephen Strangewey is a misogynist and he has brought up his younger
  brother in the creed that all women are to be despised. But John
  Strangewey is too human to resist the spell of Louise, and he follows
  her to London where he is caught up by the whirl of fashionable
  society. The author’s hand does not lose its skill when it turns to
  new themes and the reader is left in doubt as to the outcome to the
  last page.

       + =Ath= p103 F ‘17 60w

  “Never before has Mr Oppenheim been more ingenious in the weaving of a
  plot, never before has he so skilfully led his hero and heroine
  through many dangers—in this case they are wholly moral dangers—with
  such logical success.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 3 ‘17 1300w

  “There are, of course, two kinds of Oppenheim books—those that are the
  best of their kind and those that are not so good. ‘The hillman’ is
  one of the latter. Yet even so it will be read with unabated pleasure,
  and the reader will not be disturbed by questions of social science,
  nor, indeed, by questions of reality.” E: E. Hale

       + =Dial= 62:104 F 8 ‘17 750w

     + — =N Y Times= 22:5 Ja 7 ‘17 450w

  “A new though quite successful departure on the part of the author.”

       + =Spec= 118:392 Mr 31 ‘17 20w

  “Some of the minor characters are sprightly and amusing, and the hero
  is always virile.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 18 ‘17 180w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p95 F 22 ‘17 40w


=OPPENHEIM, JAMES.= Book of self. *$1.50 Knopf 811 17-13552

  “In ‘The book of self’ James Oppenheim tilts against the flesh and the
  devil in a series of poems that are put forth as intimately related to
  the struggle America is undergoing and from which a new national life
  shall emerge. The poems are divided into three sections: ‘Self,’ a
  revelation of a man’s life, his desires, ambitions, and hopes; ‘The
  song of life,’ a history of youth’s encounter with life, and
  ‘Creation,’ the drama of cosmic life unfolding through the individual
  life of man.”—R of Rs

  “Greater restraint in production and a sharper focus of theme, to
  obviate the cosmic tendency of his mind,—these are necessary to the
  artistic side of Mr Oppenheim’s work; but we are not disposed to cavil
  at the poet who makes us think, nor who in his highest moments stirs
  us with something of the fire of Hebraic prophecy.” J. B. Rittenhouse

     + — =Bookm= 46:439 D ‘17 360w

  “There is in it something of the intense striving for truth of the
  scientist who will use every means of experiment to discover if his
  conclusions are trustworthy. With just such seriousness has Mr
  Oppenheim delved into the deeps of consciousness to learn the secrets
  of life.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 15 ‘17 1550w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:85 Je ‘17

  “The book is a great, though an uneven, volume.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p12 Ap 22 ‘17 230w

  “Vigor is his characteristic mark—vigor of thought, vigor of phrase;
  and, though there are undoubtedly many who, like the present reviewer,
  totally disagree with his thought and his message, there can be no
  question as to the power with which that thought and that message are
  presented. ... Whitman is the antecedent from whom he chiefly
  derives—in his rhythm, his democracy, and his unfettered naturalism.
  Indeed, it is matter of regret to us that in this last respect he only
  too closely resembles his prototype, and that like him he too often
  permits his splendid powers to run in praise of a perilous and
  devouring animalism.”

         =N Y Times= 22:207 My 27 ‘17 350w

  “A remarkable and virile book that voices the under-currents of revolt
  and flings aloft the banners of the ultimate triumph of spirit over
  materialistic forces. The rhythmic quality of the poetry is inferior
  to ‘Songs for a new age,’ however, and more frequent melodic lines
  would improve the scaffolding that upholds the thought.”

     + — =R of Rs= 55:661 Je ‘17 140w

         =St Louis= 15:183 Je ‘17


=ORCHARD, WILLIAM EDWIN.= Necessity of Christ. *$1.25 Dutton 232
17-13313

  “The view propounded by Dr Orchard is that modernism in philosophy and
  religion confirms the position of Christ as held by the historic
  Christian faith; that He is shown to be necessary to thought,
  religion, Christianity, personality, society, and to God; and, lastly,
  that the application of the faith to modern problems is subversive of
  the old order of things—indeed, that the Athanasian creed, thought to
  be ‘the last bulwark of things as they are,’ has been found to ‘read
  more like the first charter of socialism.’”—Ath

         =Ath= p474 O ‘16 80w

  “Not since the days of the schoolmen has there been closer or more
  subtle reasoning in matters of theology and Christian relationships
  than is found in this little book. ... Orthodox in creed, fearless in
  criticism, constructive as well as iconoclastic, this diatribe will be
  sure to arouse thought even when it fails to command assent.”

         =Boston Transcript= p7 My 5 ‘17 100w

  “The author is too vague and indefinite to be convincing, and his
  statement that the old evidences for the divinity of Christ are now
  presented in a way which only stimulates revolt, is unproved.”

     – + =Cath World= 105:845 S ‘17 160w

         =N Y Times= 22:171 Ap 29 ‘17 40w

  “We greatly recommend this very original little book to those who are
  interested in modern theology.”

       + =Spec= 117:510 O 28 ‘16 400w


=ORCHARD, WILLIAM EDWIN.= Outlook for religion. *$1.50 Funk 17-31685

  “Dr Orchard stands to-day at the head of the non-conformist pulpit of
  England. ... He thinks it necessary to face and state a calm and
  dispassionate diagnosis of present conditions in the church and the
  world. This diagnosis he undertakes, and then suggests the remedy for
  the condition he finds. The present volume has twelve chapters in
  three parts—The question of the hour, The cry of the times, and The
  hope of the age. The conditions are: skepticism and materialism
  overabundant, a confused and apathetic church, a Christianity that has
  wandered far from application to life of the Sermon on the Mount, and
  consequently has largely lost its power. Sectarianism is one of the
  outstanding evils to be abolished. Dr Orchard stands for ‘a social and
  international application of Christianity in a new catholicism.’”—Lit
  D

       — =Ath= p345 Jl ‘17 1000w

  “Dr Orchard’s writing is tense and highminded as ever.” James Moffat

       + =Hibbert J= 15:677 Jl ‘17 110w

       + =Ind= 92:110 O 13 ‘17 60w

         =Lit D= 55:51 D 1 ‘17 280w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:117 Ag ‘17


=ORCUTT, WILLIAM DANA.=[2] Burrows of Michigan and the Republican party;
a biography and a history. 2v il *$6 (3½c) Longmans 17-29460

  The subject of this biography, who was born in 1837, entered national
  public life in 1872 when he was elected to Congress as a member of the
  House. In 1895 he was elected to the Senate, and represented his state
  in that body up to 1911. These two volumes are taken up almost wholly
  with his public career and his relation to his party. Four chapters of
  volume 1 are given to his early life and his service in the Civil war.
  The McKinley bill, Reciprocity, The Wilson bill, Currency, Mormonism
  and the Smoot case are matters made the subject of special chapters.

  “To the student of American history during this vital and highly
  dramatic period, Mr Orcutt’s work will be of distinct value; for his
  endeavor to explain the conditions leading up to every important act
  of his hero involves either a clear statement of facts with a very
  broad bearing on the national life, or a suggestive grouping of those
  of minor consequence which will indicate to the student the direction
  in which it might be profitable to continue a search.”

       + =Nation= 106:15 Ja 3 ‘18 1500w

  “In freely using the public utterances of Senator Burrows, Mr Orcutt
  has wisely followed the best writers in another branch of literature,
  whose characters are left, as far as possible, to reveal themselves in
  dialogue. To these utterances in and out of the national capitol we
  must refer the reader who seeks to obtain an adequate idea of the
  senator from Michigan as a constructive statesman and an orator of
  rare gifts.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:499 N 25 ‘17 660w


=ORCZY, EMMUSKA (MRS MONTAGU BARSTOW), baroness.= Sheaf of bluebells.
*$1.35 (1½c) Doran 17-17973

  For her latest novel of the Napoleonic era, the author devises a tense
  situation. The story opens with the return to France of Mme. la
  Marquise de Mortain and her son Laurent. Altho she returns by the
  decree of the emperor, she does so with full intent to plot against
  the “Corsican upstart.” In this design she must take account of Ronnay
  de Maurel, her son by a former marriage. Ronnay de Maurel has been
  brought up by an uncle and has absorbed his simple democratic ideals.
  He dresses like the workmen in his own foundries and makes no pretence
  to knowledge of the world. But he has fought at Austerlitz and has
  received the “grand eagle” at the hands of his emperor. It is part of
  the mother’s purpose to win over this son, that his wealth and his
  iron foundries may be devoted to the service of the king. In this she
  has at first the aid of her niece, Fernande de Coursan, but the time
  comes when Fernande can no longer go on with the part she is cast to
  play.

  “Interesting, if you like historical romances.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:171 F ‘18

  “The plot is ingenious, and is well worked out.”

       + =Ath= p312 Je ‘17 100w

       + =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 40w

  “This new novel is full of excitement in event, of rich color in
  background, of real interest in character presentment.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:446 N 4 ‘17 350w

  “The action is lively, and the local scenes are admirably done.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 23 ‘17 300w

  “An historical tale worthy of this spirited romancer.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p238 My 17 ‘17 50w

  “Unhappily Baroness Orczy not only uses as a medium a kind of highly
  coloured cinematography, but employs tricked-out puppets instead of
  living mimes for her dramatis personæ.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p272 Je 7 ‘17 500w


=ORVIS, JULIA SWIFT.= Brief history of Poland. *$1.50 (2c) Houghton
943.8 16-22948

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “Among the short histories of Poland that we now possess in English
  (Morfill’s, Bain’s, Phillips’s), Miss Orvis’s work seems to the
  reviewer by far the best. ... The book is, in general, accurate and
  scholarly. It is to be regretted, however, that the author’s spelling
  of Polish names is often incorrect. ... Some errors of fact have crept
  in here and there. ... The account given of the migrations of the
  early Slavs is open to grave objections, and the author’s description
  of the appanage system of the twelfth century would apply to Russia
  much better than to Poland. ... Such errors, however, are not
  sufficiently common to mar seriously what is, on the whole, a very
  interesting and praiseworthy historical work.” R. H. L.

       + =Am Hist R= 22:701 Ap ‘17 400w

  “Compact, popular and readable.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:261 Mr ‘17

  “The writer shows herself to be not well acquainted with the history
  of the Catholic church in the few passages in which she touches on
  ecclesiastical matters.”

         =Cath World= 104:833 Mr ‘17 580w

  “Significant not only for its information about Poland itself, but for
  the suggestions and allusions that show the development of the present
  problems of Eastern Europe and the place of Poland and the Slavs in
  the life of Europe as a whole.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:271 Jl 22 ‘17 670w

  “Just the thing for readers who want to read up on a confusing section
  of European history. Comes down to the present day.” P. B.

       + =St Louis= 15:154 My ‘17 23w


=OSBORN, EDWARD BOLLAND.= Maid with wings, and other fantasies, grave to
gay. *$1.25 (2½c) Lane 824 17-29645

  A collection of short stories and sketches. In the title piece, a
  scene on the firing line, with Joan of Arc appearing to a wounded
  British soldier is described. Several of the others are related more
  or less closely to the war. One of a quite different type is the
  account of the simplified spelling conference, a protest meeting of
  the English words with the Rev. Mr Damn presiding. Canada is the scene
  of several of the sketches. They are reprinted in part from the
  Morning Post of London.

  “The author has a vivid descriptive touch, which makes ‘The
  million-pound eight,’ a futurist picture of the prize-ring, readable
  in spite of its feeble climax. A Roman patriot dying at Cannae; a
  squad of pacifists waiting at Heaven’s gate, while the real
  peacemakers, the soldier and the sailor, are welcomed by the King in
  person; and things like the meeting of spelling-reformers, are done
  with actuality, though the manner has had more attention than the
  matter, and the style is a clever blend of jaunty deshabille and fine
  writing.”

       + =Ath= p471 S ‘17 150w

  “Yet for the most part the book does not thrill. The two wounded
  soldier pieces, ‘The maid with wings,’ and ‘The silver eagle,’ are not
  quite up to the required level of human pathos. The only clever
  article in the volume is that entitled the ‘Fighting generation.’”

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 5 ‘18 380w

  “This rare and invaluable art of being able to give the force and
  interest of an essay without the well-known deadening process so much
  favored by essayists, is perhaps the most admirable of all Mr Osborn’s
  gifts.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:584 D 30 ‘17 840w

  “The range of subjects is bewildering in its variety, and Mr Osborn’s
  attitude is in the main more provocative than persuasive. But he is a
  stimulating companion, and, whatever his theme, he enriches it with
  curious lore set forth in an incisive and picturesque style.”

       + =Spec= 119:63 Jl 21 ‘17 500w

  “All are clearly the work of a practised writer—of one who has
  profited by his familiarity with classical and French models to
  present what he has to say in a form to be read with pleasure and to
  be understood at sight, and who can assume a cheery and justified
  confidence in his power to entertain even when an amateur would have
  thought the material too thin to be worth working up.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p330 Jl 12 ‘17 1100w


=OSBORN, HENRY FAIRFIELD.= Origin and evolution of life; on the theory
of action, reaction and interaction of energy. il *$3 (5½c) Scribner 575
17-25802

  Professor Osborn is research professor of zoology at Columbia
  university, president of the American museum of natural history, and
  author of “The age of mammals,” “Men of the old stone age,” etc. In
  the present volume, we have his Hale lectures, delivered before the
  National academy of sciences, Washington, D. C., in April, 1916. The
  author believes that although “we know to some extent how plants and
  animals and man evolve, we do not know why they evolve,” and that our
  failure “to make progress in the search for causes” is chiefly because
  naturalists “have attempted to reason backward from highly complex
  plant and animal forms to causes,” whereas we should reverse the
  naturalist’s point of view, and “think from energy forward into matter
  and form.” “In these lectures we may take some of the initial steps
  toward an energy conception of evolution and an energy conception of
  heredity and away from the matter and form conceptions which have
  prevailed for over a century. The first half of this volume is
  therefore devoted to what we know of the capture, storage, release,
  and reproduction of energy in its simplest and most elementary living
  phases; the second half is devoted to the evolution of matter and form
  in plants and animals, also interpreted largely in terms of energy and
  mechanics.” (Preface) There is an appendix and a bibliography.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:81 D ‘17

  Reviewed by Archibald Henderson

       + =Bookm= 46:273 N ‘17 1250w

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 8 ‘17 170w

  “In presenting his own theory, the ‘energy conception,’ the scientist
  makes no claim of actual discovery in this field of the causes of life
  and evolution. ... The energy conception of the origin and evolution
  of life is as yet in its infancy, ... but it may be claimed for the
  theory of action, reaction and interaction that it brings us ‘somewhat
  nearer to a consistent physicochemical conception of the original
  processes of life.’”

 *       =N Y Times= 22:377 O 7 ‘17 2300w

  “Dr Osborn’s introductory discussion of his problem is extremely well
  designed to clear away all false or confusing implications that might
  hamper one in endeavoring to grasp the constructive part of the work.
  Besides being a striking contribution to the theory of the origin of
  life embodying all that is soundest in modern thought and research,
  this book of Dr Osborn’s gives a fascinating account of the
  prehistoric condition of the earth.”

       + =No Am= 206:957 D ‘17 600w

  “It is well to be cautious in statement about any contemporary book;
  and yet it is difficult not to speak of Henry Fairfield Osborn’s
  ‘Origin and evolution of life’ as one of the great scientific books,
  as a book that is permanent in the sense that Darwin’s and Huxley’s
  books are permanent.” Theodore Roosevelt

       + =Outlook= 118:97 Ja 16 ‘18 2400w

  “If, as contemplated, he is able in the near future to add a treatise
  on the evolution of prehuman ancestry, he will have produced a trilogy
  far more fascinating than anything in the realm of fiction.” J.
  Stanley-Brown

       + =Pub W= 92:1380 O 20 ‘17 1000w

  “Prof. Osborn’s praiseworthy system of using many tables and plates to
  explain points in his volumes has been followed in the present work,
  and adds much to the lucidity and value of the book.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 870w


=O’SHAUGHNESSY, EDITH LOUISE (COUES) (MRS NELSON O’SHAUGHNESSY).=
Diplomatic days. il *$2 (2c) Harper 917.2 17-30372

  Mrs O’Shaughnessy’s second book antedates “A diplomat’s wife in
  Mexico.” That volume covered the rise and fall of Huerta; this one
  goes back to 1911 and 1912 when Diaz gave place to Madero. As in the
  first book, the story is told in letters written to the author’s
  mother.

  “Pleasant but hardly as interesting as the first book.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:162 F ‘18

  “Her interesting pages, somewhat pedantically sown with foreign
  phrases, throw many lights and shades over the turbulent events of
  which she was an eye-witness, and give her book permanent importance
  as contemporary history.”

       + =Bookm= 46:272 N ‘17 250w

  “If her descriptions were not so sketchy they would be fascinating.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 D 19 ‘17 240w

  “There is much important and interesting political comment in her
  pages and many anecdotes of a sort that only a diplomat’s wife could
  tell. ... Chiefly significant, however, is the light she throws on the
  somewhat perplexing career of Madero.”

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 8 ‘17 140w

  “The book would be better if it were not so long. Some of the family
  details could be omitted to the strengthening of the whole. ... Her
  style is sometimes pretentious, but on the whole it is pleasing,
  appreciative, expressive of a keen observation and an eagerness to
  study the conditions of the country. ... The illustrations by
  Ravell—dreamy photographs of Mexican scenes and buildings—are very
  beautiful.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:548 D 9 ‘17 700w

  “The charm of Mexico seen at its best is here graphically presented.”

       + =Outlook= 117:615 D 12 ‘17 70w


=OSTROVSKII, ALEKSANDR NIKOLAEVICH.= Plays; a tr. from the Russian; ed.
by G: Rapall Noyes. *$1.50 Scribner 891.7 17-24532

  Ostrovsky belongs to the central decades of the nineteenth century,
  the period of Turgenev, Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy. In his dramas,
  however, as the editor points out, he dealt with a phase of Russian
  life untouched by them, the life of the merchant class. His plays are
  of varied character, but his real strength, Mr Noyes continues, “lay
  in the drama of manners, giving realistic pictures of Russian life
  among the Russian city classes and the minor nobility.” Four examples
  of these realistic dramas are given in this volume, with the titles: A
  protégée of the mistress; Poverty is no crime; Sin and sorrow are
  common to all; It’s a family affair—we’ll settle it ourselves.

  “Ostrovsky’s vast work is the most national manifestation of the
  dramatic genius of his race. He created the Russian drama of manners.”
  Abraham Yarmolinsky

       + =Bookm= 46:484 D ‘17 200w

  “‘It’s a family affair’ is a keen-edged portrayal of the low standard
  of Russian commercial morals in the 50’s. ‘A protegé of the mistress’
  shows how the serfs were subject to the caprices of irresponsible
  owners and, like Turgenieff’s ‘Sportsman’s sketches,’ helped to
  forward the movement for emancipation.”

       + =Cleveland= p6 Ja ‘18 100w

  “As histories of Russian manners during the years immediately
  preceding and following the emancipation of the serfs, and as
  masterpieces of characterization, these plays have much to give the
  American student of the drama, even through the medium of an
  inadequate translation.”

     + — =Dial= 63:398 O 25 ‘17 420w

  “The translation, racy, colloquial, yet never falling into the error
  of modern American (or English) slang that has marred some recent
  translations from the French, is excellent reading.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:578 D 30 ‘17 930w

  “Although Ostrovsky’s eye for the dramatic is subdued, and there are
  barren passages, his plays depict bitingly the crude, grasping traits
  of the Slav merchant class. The strongest play of the four is ‘A
  protegé of the mistress.’”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 30 ‘17 400w


=O’SULLIVAN, VINCENT.= The Good girl. new and rev ed *$1.50 Small
17-23647

  “Vendred, a man of some inherited means, leading the life of a
  blameless man about town, falls in love with Mrs Dover, ... a singer
  of high quality, married to a soldier of fortune, and choosing to live
  shabbily and hand-to-mouth with him rather than to take the fame and
  wealth which await her as a professional singer. ... Of this household
  Vendred in due time becomes the chief support; and in the end his good
  nature is carried to the point of marrying the insignificant daughter
  of the house, which clinches his position of provider for the whole
  tribe. The little wife loves him, and is more than worthy of him, but
  her mother ... has conceived one of her earthy passions for him, and
  easily annexes him as a lover when her chosen moment comes.” (Bookm)
  The book was first published in England in 1912. This authorized
  American edition has been revised and corrected by the author.

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 45:534 Jl ‘17 550w

  “‘The good girl’ was originally published in England and warmly
  appreciated there before Mr O’Sullivan’s own American countrymen had
  ever heard of the author. ... It is certain that an American novelist
  of power is disclosed in ‘The good girl,’ which the fugitive essays
  that Mr O’Sullivan has had published here in magazines hardly
  justified us in expecting. There is a massiveness and veracity of
  portraiture in this novel, blended with a sudden illuminating
  humor—the indubitable mark of real insight and creative force. The
  character studies are miles away from the conventional brisk American
  impressionism. Unfortunately, the accent of ‘The good girl’ is wholly
  antebellum, in the sense that we all seem to have passed beyond the
  mood in which love-stories of this peculiar type would meet with a
  response.”

       + =New Repub= 11:255 Je 30 ‘17 330w

  “Edward Garnett says that ‘The good girl’ entitles its author to a
  place among the first twenty American novelists. ‘The good girl’ is a
  story of marked skill in character delineation, and of equally marked
  unpleasantness. ... A thoroughly ugly and depressing story.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:214 Je 3 ‘17 310w


=O’SULLIVAN, VINCENT.= Sentiment. *$1.50 (3½c) Small 17-29624

  The scene of this story by the author of “The good girl,” is laid
  mainly at “The Firs, Palebrook, Hampshire,” the home of William’s Aunt
  Laura. The book deals with the love affairs of four young people, and
  is dependent for interest on characterization rather than plot. The
  main characters are William Spring, the self-satisfied but
  good-hearted clerk, who takes his bearings by the woman of thirty-five
  or forty years ago, and fails to understand the modern girl; Stephen
  Ruggles, the ambitious lawyer, whom “thirty-five years with an eye
  kept exclusively on his own interest had tempered,” and who, in his
  dealings with women, “had always kept the master-hand” until Penelope
  swept him off his feet; Penelope Hazard, of the “amber-colored hair,”
  the “lithe, panther-like grace,” and the “incalculable moods”; and
  Sabina Moll, the heiress with the “blunt little face,” who “had moved
  along from the cradle protected by a body-guard of guineas” and who
  had “that indefinable air of sureness and, small as she was, of
  command ... which accompanies great wealth.”

  “In short, the book has no sound action; it tells nothing about
  anybody or anything; it is the kind of whimsical skit that will pass
  readily enough for a ‘novel,’ but collapses outright if you try to
  take it as a story.” H. W. Boynton

       — =Bookm= 46:693 F ‘18 380w

  “‘Sentiment’ seems like the work of a talented but not assured
  craftsman.”

     – + =Dial= 64:78 Ja 17 ‘18 290w

  “It appears that Mr O’Sullivan was born in America, but his twenty
  years of English breeding have placed him definitely with a British
  group of sardonic realists, of which Mr John Cowper Powys and Mr Louis
  Wilkinson are prominent members. Mockery is their forte, mockery of
  usages, of philosophies, of faiths—particularly, of course, the faith
  which is called love. ... In ‘Sentiment’ we are vouchsafed no saving
  draught of honest feeling.”

     – + =Nation= 105:540 N 15 ‘17 270w

  “‘Sentiment’ thus becomes two stories in one, written in different
  emotional keys. The ridiculous situation of William, or the intrigue
  of the siren Penelope, would each have made a charming story. Woven
  together, their incongruity is glaring, and betrays an inexpertness of
  construction on the author’s part, which we should not expect from one
  who comes from England with a reputation like Mr O’Sullivan’s.”

       — =New Repub= 14:66 F 9 ‘18 220w

  “The people in the book are all real and very cleverly studied.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:468 N 11 ‘17 420w


=OSWALD, JOHN CLYDE.= Benjamin Franklin, printer. il *$2 (4c) Doubleday
17-3050

  The author is editor of the American Printer and a collector of
  Frankliniana. He has written a life of Franklin, dealing primarily
  with his activities as a printer, “using the word in the sense which
  it possessed in his time, when it included printing, editing,
  publishing, and advertising.” The author says further, “As to the
  physical structure of the volume, it has been the aim to make it
  conform typographically somewhat nearly to the style of the books
  printed by Benjamin Franklin. He had positive ideas as to
  bookmaking. ... and we have endeavored to produce a book that would
  meet with his approval could he have opportunity to pass judgment upon
  it.” The copyright in the book is held by the Associated advertising
  clubs of the world.

  “Of Franklin as a real printer, journalist, and almanac-maker there
  was little to tell that was new without a somewhat technical and
  bibliographical investigation of the subject, or, at least, a careful
  study of the Franklin manuscripts. This Mr Oswald does not appear to
  have done, or he could hardly have failed to discover the important
  series of letters from James Parker to Franklin, which have been
  printed in the Proceedings of the Massachusetts historical
  society. ... Mr Oswald has compiled a popular account of Franklin, and
  the many illustrations give his volume a value apart from the text;
  but he has hardly scratched the surface of the subject.”

         =Am Hist R= 22:907 Jl ‘17 330w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:312 Ap ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p9 F 3 ‘17 900w

         =Cleveland= p59 Ap ‘17 50w

       + =Nation= 104:411 Ap 5 ‘17 270w

  “Especially interesting are the many facsimile reproductions of pages
  from books and newspapers, title pages, advertisements, designs,
  printed by Franklin.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:22 Ja 21 ‘17 250w

  “Should prove of extreme interest to printers throughout the country.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:344 Ap ‘17 30w (Reprinted from Inland Printer
         p816 Mr ‘17)

         =Pratt= p48 O ‘17 20w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 18 ‘17 650w


Out of their own mouths. *$1 Appleton 940.91 17-24873

  “Utterances of German rulers, statesmen, savants, publicists,
  journalists, poets, business men, party leaders and soldiers.”
  (Sub-title) The book is based in part on a French compilation, “Jugés
  par eux-mêmes,” published in 1916. A Swiss work, compiled by S.
  Grumbach, has also been drawn on, and other new matter has been added.
  The A. L. A. Booklist states that the work duplicates some of the
  material in Bang’s “Hurrah and hallelujah” and Archer’s “Gems (?) of
  German thought.” There is an introduction by William Roscoe Thayer.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:89 D ‘17

  “The work has been done with care and fairness, and the book is of
  interest, and should be useful for reference.”

       + =Ath= p44 Ja ‘18 70w

  “A reading of it is enough to awaken in one a veritable hymn of hate
  against Germany.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 24 ‘17 250w

         =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 70w

       + =Educ R= 55:78 Ja ‘18 150w

  “Such a volume is also a great convenience when one wants to refer to
  some significant utterance. But we hope no German will take the hint
  and compile a volume of what our Fourth of July speechers and
  newspapers have said of America’s superiority and manifest destiny.”

       + =Ind= 92:262 N 3 ‘17 70w

  “We doubt whether all the case is apt to be presented fairly in this
  manner. It is so easy to omit, and it may often seem most proper to
  omit a great deal favorable to the enemy, but not pertinent to the
  point to be proved. The loud utterances of the rash and irresponsible
  are more apt to be taken than the calmer sayings of the moderate. ...
  Nevertheless, we think such an enterprise is worthy and useful, for
  our people cannot understand too clearly the evil against which we
  make war.”

     + — =Nation= 105:567 N 22 ‘17 1600w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:829 D ‘17 80w

       + =R of Rs= 56:550 N ‘17 50w

  “This well-arranged collection is most instructive, and deserves to be
  widely read.”

       + =Spec= 119:720 D 15 ‘17 130w


=OWEN, CAROLINE DALE (MRS CHARLES H. SNEDEKER).= Seth Way. il *$1.50
Houghton 17-31029

  A story of the New Harmony community, Robert Owen’s experiment in
  communal living in Indiana. With a few exceptions the characters are
  real people. The hero, Seth Way, is modelled after Thomas Say, the
  zoologist, altho the author has made him a younger man and has given
  him a different early environment and woven for him an original
  romance. Early in the story there is a touching picture of the meeting
  between the uncouth, unlearned mountain boy, and William Maclure, the
  geologist, and of the awakening of the boy’s desire for knowledge.
  Maclure takes the boy under his protection, and gives him his start in
  scientific training. One of the important incidents of Seth Way’s
  association with the New Harmony community is his long journey from
  New York in company with Jessonda Macleod, who comes to the settlement
  as music teacher. Out of this grows his romance. Jessonda is
  interesting as a forerunner of the high-minded, independent woman of
  today.

  “A delightful, leisurely story.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:133 Ja ‘18

  “Next to interpreting the present, there is no finer task for our
  novelists than the rescuing and embodiment in fiction of such episodes
  of our American past. It was worthy of Cooper and of Hawthorne; Mr
  Howells, the other day, gave a fine example of it in ‘The leatherwood
  god,’ beside which ‘Seth Way’ quite deserves to be placed.” H. W.
  Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:602 Ja ‘18 500w

       + =Lit D= 56:40 Ja 12 ‘18 220w

  “The tale is slight in plot, extremely leisurely in movement, and
  considering the variety and colorfulness of its historic background,
  rather surprisingly lacking in both those qualities. However, the
  picture of this early experiment in community living is not
  uninteresting.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:550 D 9 ‘17 250w

  “Its picture of pioneer days in the Ohio valley is vivid and
  thoroughly interesting.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:32 Ja ‘18 40w


=OWEN, MARGARET B.= Secret of typewriting speed. *$1 (4c) Forbes 652
17-24985

  In this book the author, who is champion typist of the world, shares
  with others some of the secrets of her success. One of these, and the
  one she considers most important is “perfect rhythm.” Among the
  chapters are: Typewriting success; Getting ready for work; Perfect
  rhythm; Weak fingers; Memory and concentration; Expert exercises;
  Practice paragraphs; Eliminating lost motion; Transpositions;
  Punctuation. One of the later chapters describes a speed contest.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:117 Ja ‘18

       + =Ath= p593 N ‘17 100w

  “Miss Owen has turned out a clear, practical guide to a subject on
  which she has so good a right to speak.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p519 O 25 ‘17 50w


=OXENHAM, JOHN.= “All’s well!” *$1 Doran 821

  A volume of poems called forth by the war. Those in part 1, “All’s
  well,” deal directly with the conflict. One of these is the hymn “For
  the men at the front,” several million copies of which have been sold.
  Part 2, “The king’s high way,” is made up of poems in which religious
  sentiment predominates. Here too the influence of the war is evident.
  In the poems as in the foreword to the volume the author pleads for a
  future that shall repair the past.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 24 ‘17 520w

  “A book of popular, sentimentally religious verse, a hymnal of
  consolation for those whom the war has stricken.”

         =Ind= 90:217 Ap 28 ‘17 30w

  “Among these poems is the famous ‘Hymn for the men at the front,’ of
  which over five million copies have been sold and the proceeds devoted
  to the various funds for wounded soldiers. The majority of the other
  poems are distinctly religious in character, full-bodied of faith and
  inspiring in triumphant spirituality.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:435 Ap ‘17 760w


=OXENHAM, JOHN.= Vision splendid. *$1 Doran 821 17-13962

  The author of the hymn “For the men at the front,” whose verse has
  touched some millions of lives, sends out words of courage, comfort
  and consecration for those who are fighting for liberty, who “out
  there” “have been in the sweep of the Reaper’s scythe,—with God,—and
  Christ,—and hell.” The key-note of the volume is in its title poem:

              “Here—or hereafter—you shall see it ended,
              This mighty work to which your souls are set;
              If from beyond—then, with the vision splendid,
              You shall smile back and never know regret.”

  “The author of ‘Bees in amber’ and ‘All’s well’ has set before his
  numerous readers a series of poems with a predominantly religious
  tone. The ‘Vision splendid’ is of ‘a world in which God and Right
  shall reign supreme.’ The longest, and perhaps the most striking,
  piece in the book is ‘The ballad of Jim Baxter.’ ‘Promoted,’ ‘The
  cross-roads,’ and ‘Edith Cavell’ are other noteworthy poems.”

       + =Ath= p310 Je ‘17 60w

  “It is for the most part insignificant as poetry, except that it is
  the medium to carry a certain vital sweep of optimism and of
  old-fashioned piety.” N. H. D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 19 ‘17 650w

  “These war poems have a sincerity and a vigor that command the
  attention and respect of the reader.”

       + =Ind= 92:63 O 6 ‘17 30w

  “The ideas in the verse were thrown overboard by intelligent minds of
  the middle ages. They have little place today.” Clement Wood

       — =N Y Call= p15 O 21 ‘17 270w

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p10 N 2 ‘17 350w


=OYEN, HENRY.= Gaston Olaf. *$1.35 (2c) Doran 17-25377

  His full name, Gaston Olaf Francois Thorson, revealed his mixed French
  and Scandinavian parentage, and this joint heritage was apparent in
  his nature too. There were times when Gaston Olaf was wholly French,
  other times when he was all Norwegian. His entry into Havens Falls was
  spectacular. Gaston Olaf, arrived in the nick of time, to make
  himself, as he always seemed able to do, center of a dramatic little
  scene in which an attractive girl played the other part. Tom Pine, his
  woods partner, scenting danger, tried to guide Gaston Olaf out of
  town. It was Tom Pine’s fear that some day his friend would like a
  town so well that he would settle down and stay there. His fears seem
  for a time to be justified, for when Gaston learns of the plot of Dave
  Taggart, of the La Croix lumber company, to steal Rose Havens’s
  timber, he feels that this town is the place for him. He foils Taggart
  and helps to make Havens Falls a place fit to live in, and then the
  choice that Tom Pine has foreseen faces him: town or trail? And the
  instinct that is deepest seated within him wins.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:171 F ‘18

  “Sufficiently sincere and realistic to make good reading except when
  the author abandons his hand-to-hand battles and attempts to be
  humorous.”

     + — =Ind= 93:240 F 9 ‘18 40w

  “There is fighting galore, of course, some entertaining descriptions,
  and an ending rather out of the ordinary, more reasonable and with
  more promise of real contentment to come than one usually finds in
  this kind of tale.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:388 O 7 ‘17 260w




                                   P


=PACKARD, FRANK LUCIUS.= Adventures of Jimmie Dale. *$1.35 (1c) Doran
17-5814

  He was a member of one of New York’s most exclusive clubs. He was
  known as an idle young man, but he had a complete and scientific
  knowledge of his father’s business, the manufacture of safes. There
  was nothing Jimmie Dale did not know about combinations and locks. So
  unknown to his society and club friends, he led a double, no, a triple
  life, acting now the part of the Gray Seal, a clever and mysterious
  cracksman who always leaves his mark, a gray seal, behind him, and
  again the part of Larry, the Bat, a denizen of the underworld. The
  chief mystery of the tale centers in the personality of the unknown
  woman whose commands Jimmie obeys, and who, whatever the means
  adopted, always has a worthy end in view.

  “Those moralists who object to the introduction in motion pictures of
  stories which deal with crime and which make the varied infringements
  of the law appear easy and attractive, will have reason to be incensed
  by Mr Packard’s story. He makes burglary appear an interesting and
  even refined occupation. ... The story is interesting from start to
  finish.”

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 7 ‘17 400w

         =N Y Times= 22:110 Mr 25 ‘17 340w

  “Eventually, the episodes become more and more improbable, and finally
  descend to frank melodrama. Still the story is above the average of
  its kind, for, while the hero commits legal ‘crimes’ to right wrongs,
  his acts are free from taint of viciousness. The incidents are
  ingeniously conceived.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 25 ‘17 180w


=PACKARD, FRANK LUCIUS.=[2] Sin that was his. il *$1.35 (1c) Doran
17-28602

  His name was Raymond Chapelle, altho in different parts of Canada and
  Alaska he had been known as Arthur Leroy, and again as Three-Ace
  Artie. His reputation was none too savory, and the facts sustained it.
  His one good deed had reacted to his own loss and he had vowed never
  to commit another. Then fate compels him to assume a new name and to
  take on a new character. To save his life, he adopts the garb of a
  Catholic priest and poses as Father Aubert, while the real Father
  Aubert faces death in his place. The influence of the habiliment and
  position of priest works a change in his character, leading to regret,
  repentance and restitution; also to the winning of a girl’s love.

  “The story is well constructed, and the chain of events made
  plausible, while the religious portion of it never falls into the gulf
  of the maudlin, though it must be admitted that there are times when
  it approaches perilously near the edge of that dread abyss. The
  dénouement, too, is satisfactory, though one cannot help wondering how
  the good people of St Marleau took the astonishing revelation of the
  truth about their ‘good young Father Aubert.’”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:468 N 11 ‘17 380w

  “The plot is daring, and only by the most skillful handling is it
  possible to develop it without wounding the religious susceptibilities
  of many readers. It is Mr Packard’s most ambitious and also his best
  work.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 460w


=PAGÉ, VICTOR WILFRED.= How to run an automobile. 1917 ed il *$1 (2c)
Henley 629.2 17-11228

  The author points out that this is not an instruction book on the
  construction and repair of automobiles. It has been prepared “in
  answer to numerous requests for a concise exposition of the operating
  principles of modern gasoline automobiles.” It is intended as “an
  absolutely non-technical compilation of the operating instructions of
  leading automobile manufacturers with which the car owner should be
  familiar.” Contents: Automobile parts and their functions; General
  starting and driving instructions; Typical 1917 control systems; Care
  of automobiles. The book is well supplied with diagrams, etc.

  “It is possible to immediately turn to your car and apply the
  knowledge.”

       + =Agricultural Digest= 2:506 Je ‘17 60w

  “Instructions are plain and the text is well illustrated.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:11 O ‘17

         =Cleveland= p110 S ‘17 40w

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:174 Je ‘17


=PAGÉ, VICTOR WILFRED.= Storage batteries simplified, operating
principles—care and industrial applications. il *$1.50 (2c) Henley
621.35 17-13513

  “A complete, non-technical but authoritative treatise discussing the
  development of the modern storage battery, outlining the basic
  operation of the leading types; also the methods of construction,
  charging, maintenance and repair.” (Title-page) The book also includes
  special instructions for care and repair of automobile batteries and
  glossary of terms. It has been written with the cooperation of leading
  American storage battery makers.

         =Cleveland= p109 S ‘17 10w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:659 O ‘17

       + =Pratt= p22 O ‘17 40w

  “A plainly written book understandable by the average reader.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:364 O ‘17 20w


=PAGET, STEPHEN.= I sometimes think. *$1.75 Macmillan 814 A17-1505

  “‘I sometimes think’ is a series of essays for young people covering a
  varied number of topics. By far the most interesting are the witty one
  entitled ‘Unnatural selection,’ and the graver, keener one called ‘The
  next few years.’ In ‘Unnatural selection’ Mr Paget tells us how
  children should choose their parents—if this were possible. Of course,
  it is really a sermon to parents through their children.”—Springf’d
  Republican

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:86 Je ‘17 30w

  “It is a beautiful book that Mr Paget has given us, and worthy of the
  subject. After all, his is the point of view that is desirable today.
  It is beautifulness that our men will need when they return from
  learning things and ‘seeing things ugly enough to drive you and me
  mad.’ These essays are of a spirit to produce the atmosphere that all
  desire to bring about for the refreshing of the men and the healing of
  the nation.”

       + =Sat R= 123:321 Ap 7 ‘17 870w

  “Full of good sense and good humour. ... He ends on a grave note in
  ‘The next few years,’ hinting at the great problems which peace will
  set before us, and at the demands that will then be made on our
  loyalty and self-control.”

       + =Spec= 118:593 My 26 ‘17 80w

  “The essays are quite English in atmosphere and tone, but they show a
  wide sympathy and are whole-souled and suggestive. Mr Paget is always
  a clear writer, and at times is keenly sarcastic. Older people, rather
  than the young people whom the author seeks to address, will probably
  turn to the book with most appreciation and interest.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 190w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p608 D 14 ‘16 1550w


=PAINE, RALPH DELAHAYE.=[2] Sons of Eli. il *$1.35 (2c) Scribner
17-24274

  The first story in this collection is a story of twenty years ago,
  included with the more recent tales, perhaps, to show that the Yale
  spirit is the same yesterday and today. The remaining stories are
  loosely related in that they concern the same set of characters. Some
  of them have appeared in Scribner’s Magazine. Contents: A victory
  unforeseen; Follow the ball; “Sleepy” Jordan; The letter of the law;
  Getting his goat; The Indian; The vengeance of Antonia; A transaction
  with Shylock; His code of honor.

  “[The tales are] crisp and humorous, and hold up high university
  ideals of sport and of student relations.”

       + =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 20w


=PALMER, FREDERICK.= My second year of the war. *$1.50 (1½c) Dodd 940.91
17-6753

  “My year of the great war” was published in 1915. This second volume
  by Mr Palmer covers the year 1916 and is concerned chiefly with the
  campaigns about Verdun and on the Somme. Mr Palmer’s articles have
  been appearing in Collier’s. He is said by the publishers to be “the
  only accredited American correspondent who had freedom of the field in
  the battles of the Somme.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:308 Ap ‘17

  “Unfortunately, many of Mr Palmer’s descriptions lose effectiveness
  because they are very much like similar descriptions found in ‘My year
  of the great war.’ ... On the whole, the strongest appeal of the book
  is to the thoughtful mind.” A. R. Dodd

       + =Bookm= 45:195 Ap ‘17 720w

       + =Cath World= 105:538 Jl ‘17 270w

  Reviewed by P. F. Bicknell

       + =Dial= 62:305 Ap 5 ‘17 320w

       + =Lit D= 54:1273 Ap 28 ‘17 250w

  Reviewed by Harold Stearns

       + =New Repub= 10:sup16 Ap 21 ‘17 550w

  “It is essentially a study of military events. That is not to say that
  it is not a very human record. It is human and dramatic and full of
  sympathy. But it is not emotional. ... It does not tell how men felt.
  It tells what they did. ... Another kind of importance the book
  possesses: it tells us something of what, in a purely military way,
  England has done.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:64 F 25 ‘17 600w

  Reviewed by Robert Lynd

       + =Pub W= 91:975 Mr 17 ‘17 280w

  “Mr Palmer has won a world-wide reputation for the vividness and
  accuracy of his descriptions.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:445 Ap ‘17 70w

  “Perhaps the greatest value of the book is its human note. ...
  Dwelling on the initiative and bravery of the new British army, Mr
  Palmer says that ‘Tennyson’s “Light brigade” seems bombast and gallery
  play after July 1.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 24 ‘17 570w

  “It is impossible to say after reading this book that you have a clear
  idea of the whole scheme of attack in the beginning, or any grasp of
  the principles that governed the advance when once the main attack was
  successful. One picture, or one side of the picture, he does convey
  well: the extraordinary amount of movement on the roads, the crowding
  up of batteries behind our lines, the ceaseless ebb and flow of
  transport of all kinds.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p170 Ap 12 ‘17 400w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:124 Ap ‘17 60w


=PALMER, FREDERICK.= With our faces in the light. *50c (3½c) Dodd 940.91
17-16213

  “Mr Palmer recalls a luminous evening on the Somme, when he came upon
  a battalion of the New army halted and content, as their commander
  said meaningly, ‘with their faces in the light.’ The officer went on
  to predict to Mr Palmer that America, too, would come in, ‘because
  your faces are in the light ... because that thing which we are now
  about to attack will drive you, and the thing that is sending us to
  the attack is calling you.’” (Spec) This little book “illuminates the
  situation and the conditions in America and the meaning of the war for
  us,” (N Y Times) and expresses the conviction “that this country as a
  united nation will face the test in the spirit of the fathers.”
  (Springf’d Republican)

  “A little sermon on patriotism.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:55 N ‘17

         =Ath= p532 O ‘17 80w

  “Perhaps it is the sincerity, perhaps it is the style, but whatever
  the cause, Mr Palmer’s work remains a very stirring and invigorating
  piece of writing.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 260w

         =Cleveland= p2 Ja ‘18 70w

       + =N Y Times= 22:344 S 16 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:685 O ‘17 20w

  “This charming little book was written by the well-known American war
  correspondent for his own countrymen, but it will have an equal
  interest for English readers.”

       + =Spec= 119:249 S 8 ‘17 200w

  “It represents the views of a man who knows war on many continents and
  is withal an intense American. The blatant tone of less worldly-wise
  men is refreshingly absent.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 90w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p410 Ag 30 ‘17 500w


=PALMER, FREDERICK E.= Milady’s house plants. il $1 De La Mare 716
17-13238

  The author of this “complete instructor and guide to success with
  flowers and plants in the home” is an expert florist who has had many
  years experience in solving the problem of house plants. After a
  chapter on the “Companionship of flowers,” Mr Palmer discusses:
  Fundamental requirements of all plants; Foliage plants for house
  decoration; Flowering plants for house decoration; Bulbous plants;
  House plants out-of-doors in summer; Sowing of seeds and rooting of
  cuttings; Outside window boxes in winter; Insect pests and remedies;
  How to treat cut flowers; Sun parlors as plant rooms. “The
  illustrations are a considerable part of the book, many of the
  operations being pictured and most of the plants.” (Springf’d
  Republican)

  “This valuable little book is compactly written and well illustrated.”

       + =Ind= 92:345 N 17 ‘17 40w

  “The common plants, and some uncommon ones that a mere amateur may
  safely attempt are listed here with sufficient comment as to name,
  quality, treatment, etc., to insure their welfare under thoughtful
  care. ... The index is very full and helpful.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 300w


=PANI, ALBERTO J.= Hygiene in Mexico; a study of sanitary and
educational problems; tr. by Ernest L. de Gogorza. *$1.50 (3½c) Putnam
614.09 17-6341

  A report of a survey of health conditions made in Mexico City and the
  Federal district. The report is a frank revelation of evil conditions
  due to official carelessness and neglect, and is made in the hope of
  future betterment. The investigation was undertaken by the order of
  Carranza, and the author, who has held many posts of importance in
  Mexico, was a member of the joint Mexican-American commission of 1916.

  “In a chapter devoted to public health of the City of Mexico, the
  author presents exhaustive and carefully prepared tables, showing a
  comparison of death rates in various cities, American and European,
  which approximate the City of Mexico in number of inhabitants.” H. S.
  K.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 F 24 ‘17 400w

  “A Gallic fervor for system and for a well-expanded and rounded-out
  scheme for the hygienic redemption of the state permeates the work.”

       + =Dial= 62:532 Je 14 ‘17 240w

         =Int J Ethics= 27:403 Ap ‘17 140w

         =N Y Times= 22:196 My 20 ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:39 N ‘17 20w

  “Interesting from an educational point of view.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p12 Mr 30 ‘17 220w

  “An ardent plea for public health in Mexico, and a vigorous statement
  of difficulties in the way thereof.” G. S.

       + =Survey= 38:551 S 22 ‘17 270w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p420 Ag 30 ‘17 120w


=PARIS, WILLIAM FRANCKLYN.= Decorative elements in architecture; random
observations on the eternal fitness of things from a decorative point of
view. il *$5 (19c) Lane 749 17-13254

  A series of papers devoted largely to interior decoration and
  furnishing. The author says, “Too little stress has been laid upon the
  fact that as much skill and science and understanding of art is needed
  in the adornment of the inside of a palace as is required in the
  designing and embellishment of the outside.” Contents: Sunt lachrymæ
  rerum; Rationalism in art; Guessing and knowing; The inheritance of
  the past; Principles and essentials; The development of ornament;
  Decorative elements; The art of Penelope; Painted glass; Wrought iron.
  The book is handsomely illustrated.

  “‘Decorative elements in architecture’ appeals to the layman as a gem.
  It is descriptive, historic, and didactic, and written in a style
  which a layman can understand. The illustrations, of which there are
  ninety and nine, really illustrate.”

       + =Dial= 63:352 O 11 ‘17 140w

  “As befits a book upon art by an artist, it is very finely produced
  and splendidly illustrated. A rich but not sumptuous cover, good
  paper, excellent typography and margins—these are, in themselves,
  details of an art which must be handed on, with the rest, to the
  waiting future—the art of the book. And a most refreshing thing about
  the illustrations should be welcomed—they are all of unusual works of
  art.”

       + =Int Studio= 62:sup24 Jl ‘17 1350w

  “As a piece of book-making the work is altogether pleasing.”

       + =Lit D= 53:33 S 1 ‘17 270w

  “His book is quite continental in quality; the reviewer, indeed,
  perhaps through insular prejudice, feels that an occasional
  illustration from English eighteenth-century ironwork or American
  colonial furniture would sometimes carry the desired points more
  tellingly than do the French and Spanish pieces chosen.”

     + — =Nation= 105:607 N 29 ‘17 560w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:110 Jl ‘17 30w

  “It is difficult to say whether the book is more for decorators or for
  the public. Both will get from it inspiration and practical
  suggestion, but the public perhaps will profit most by having its
  bewildered face turned firmly, though with a delicate touch, in the
  right direction.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:531 D 2 ‘17 640w

       + =Outlook= 116:160 My 23 ‘17 130w

  “Of special interest are the last three chapters on tapestry, ‘The art
  of Penelope,’ painted glass, and wrought iron.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 9 ‘17 270w


=PARKER, EDWARD HARPER.= China; her history, diplomacy, and commerce
from the earliest times to the present day. 2d ed il *$2.50 Dutton 951
17-30891

  “The first edition of this work was published in 1901. To the present
  (second) edition the author, who is professor of Chinese at the
  Victoria university of Manchester, has added three chapters, in the
  last of which he endeavours to describe succinctly how political
  reform in China arose out of foreign defeat, and how the spirit of
  democracy asserted itself.” (Ath) Other chapters have been brought
  down to date.

  “Contains much information about a country of which Europeans are as a
  rule regrettably deficient in knowledge, and the numerous clear maps
  are of great assistance.”

       + =Ath= p474 S ‘17 170w

  “It is a pity, however, that while the author has accumulated a vast
  store of first-hand knowledge, his style leaves much to be desired. It
  is also to be somewhat regretted that Mr Parker is interested more in
  men and their affairs than in nature and her products. Perhaps the
  least useful part of the book is the last chapter, which deals with
  the rise of the republic.”

     + — =Ath= p508 O ‘17 770w

  “The dominant interest of these pages, which are written with a dry
  humour that finds expression even in the paginal headlines, lies in
  their exposure of Germany’s brief but eventful career in the Far East,
  a subject on which, thanks to his earlier consular experience,
  Professor Parker writes from inside information. ... Professor
  Parker’s book should be read by all who desire a closer acquaintance
  with a land that has suddenly emerged from the picturesque stagnation
  in which Marco Polo found it. The glossary alone is of great interest
  and practical use.”

       + =Sat R= 124:190 S 8 ‘17 850w

  “This is a book of observations, even more than a book of historical
  study or economic analysis, though there is enough history to supply a
  background for the observations. These are expressed in a breezy,
  buoyant style and are characterized by frankness and a disposition to
  make disconcerting, but highly amusing comparisons between the Chinese
  and the English.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 31 ‘18 700w

  “His description of the rise of the Chinese republic is coherent and
  interesting; it bears evidence, however, of having been based to a
  very great extent upon the study of contemporary local journalism.
  Professor Parker’s work is at its best when he deals with those
  subjects which afford opportunity for the display of his wide range of
  ethnological, historical and etymological research.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p483 O 11 ‘17 710w


=PARKER, HORATIO NEWTON.= City milk supply. il *$5 McGraw 614.3 17-7831

  “The volume opens with a discussion of milk and of the diseases which
  it may convey. The dairy cow and farm are next considered from various
  angles. Then come valuable chapters on the sanitary production of milk
  and on milk transportation. The importance of the milk contractor is
  duly recognized by a chapter of 142 pages. Nearly as much space is
  given to an able review of methods of public control of milk supplies,
  this subject having been wisely reserved to the last. Each chapter is
  supplied with a source reference list.”—Engin News-Rec

  “The book is not entirely satisfactory, either in its analysis of
  production costs or of distribution costs. But as to other topics
  which the author presumes to cover, the book is most inclusive and
  authoritative, and will be a most valuable record for all those
  interested in accurate facts as to sanitary milk, its production,
  transportation, and inspection.” C. L. K.

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 74:300 N ‘17 150w

  “Such a thoroughly up-to-date book on milk supply as this, written by
  a man who has dealt with the subject as inspector, health officer,
  analyst and teacher, should certainly make a broad and telling appeal
  to all who are concerned with public health and sanitation. ... The
  book deals adequately with its subject and might well serve as a model
  for writers who have not yet learned the knack of selecting the most
  essential facts from a vast amount of material and presenting them in
  concise, orderly, instructive and readable form.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:153 Ap 19 ‘17 170w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:418 My ‘17

  “A comprehensive, up-to-date discussion of milk production,
  distribution, and regulation by a man conversant with every aspect of
  the subject as inspector, health officer, analyst, and teacher.”

       + =Pratt= p20 O ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:174 Je ‘17

  “No other book in English, at least, gives an equal amount of
  information regarding city milk supply.” Frank Schneider, jr.

       + =Survey= 39:72 O 20 ‘17 170w


=PARKER, LOUIS NAPOLEON.= Aristocrat. *$1 Lane 822 17-5392

  The scenes of this three-act play are laid during and immediately
  following the French revolution. The first act opens on New Year’s
  eve, 1793, in the house of Louis of Olonzac. Refusing to recognize the
  existence of the republic, he is preparing to observe the occasion as
  always, with mass at midnight and a supper with his friends
  afterwards. The result is imprisonment for himself, his daughter
  Louise, and his guests. The trial scene takes up the second act, with
  the dramatic rescue of Louise, and the death of Robespierre as its
  climax. Act three is laid ten years later.

  “Good for reading aloud.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:441 Jl ‘17

  “‘The aristocrat’ is exceedingly good, and possesses many of the
  characteristics which make ‘Disraeli’ enjoyable.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ap 14 ‘17 800w

  “A romantic glow envelops the action from beginning to end.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:663 Je ‘17 60w


=PARKER, RALPH MIDDLETON.= Officer’s notes; comp. by Lieut. C: C.
Griffith. il *$2 G. U. Harvey, 109 Lafayette st., N.Y. 355 17-11226

  “In compiling his notes Captain Parker has taken advantage of the
  experience gained by nearly twenty years active service with troops—as
  commandant of cadets at Norwich university, and as the officer
  detailed to instruct candidates for commissions in the reserve during
  the past winter. The book is a digest of the information given in the
  army regulations as to company administration; military law, as laid
  down in the manual of courts-martial; small-arm firing regulations,
  including the use and construction of the United States army service
  rifle; field service regulations, with particular reference to the
  gathering of information; security; distribution of troops; outposts
  and orders; marches and convoys, and the shelter of troops in the
  field.”—N Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:378 Je ‘17

       + =Ind= 90:127 Ap 14 ‘17 20w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:67 My ‘17 30w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:89 Je ‘17 30w

  “Gives in small compass what the young officer should know.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p15 Ap ‘17 60w

  “Captain Parker and Lieutenant Griffith have performed a real service
  for the young officer and for the candidate for a commission in the
  Officers’ reserve corps by condensing into a little book of 204 pages
  that can readily be carried in the pocket the essential information
  from five or six service manuals, and presenting it in clear, everyday
  English that the average man without any knowledge of military
  phraseology can readily understand.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:116 Ap 1 ‘17 320w

  “Perhaps the best evidence of its worth is furnished by the fact that
  one dealer in the Wall Street district is said to have sold a thousand
  copies in four days.” R. L.

         =Pub W= 91:1326 Ap 21 ‘17 110w

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 Mr 31 ‘17 90w


=PARKHURST, FREDERIC AUGUSTUS.= Predetermination of true costs and
relatively true selling prices. il *$1.25 Wiley 657 16-14605

  “A careful reading of this book suggests that it is fairer to judge it
  by the content than by the title. ... Seven eighths of the book deals
  with costs: the remainder with profit and selling prices. ... That the
  author has presented the subject in the usual manner will be seen from
  the chapter headings which are as follows: Importance of absolute
  control of all sources of information; Discussion of elements
  affecting true costs; Direct costs; Indirect costs; Recapitulation of
  costs; Estimating; Profit and relatively true selling prices;
  Conclusion. ... The closure is an appeal for greater consideration and
  better treatment of the workman, not only because of philanthropic
  motives but because it pays.”—Am Econ R

  “It is a good book to which to refer a clerk in a cost department for
  a working manual or a student of the subject of cost accounting. To
  such persons it offers not only the principles of cost finding but
  unusually clear and complete illustrations of their application.” J:
  R. Wildman

       + =Am Econ R= 7:132 Mr ‘17 550w

         =Cleveland= p152 D ‘16 15w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:122 Ag ‘16

  “‘Greatest value of the book lies in the arguments brought out in the
  first chapter on the importance of absolute control of all sources of
  information. ... System explained in this book is a definite one for a
  given type of manufacture, and the forms shown are taken from the
  practice of two shops only.’”

         =Pittsburgh= 22:462 My ‘17 50w (Reprinted from American
         Machinist p572 Mr 29 ‘17)


=PARKMAN, MARY ROSETTA.= Heroes of today. il *$1.35 (2½c) Century 920
17-25610

  The author has told the stories of some of the heroes “who are
  fighting ‘in the patient modern way,’ not against flesh and blood with
  sword and spear, but against the unseen enemies of disease and
  pestilence; against the monster evils of ignorance, poverty and
  injustice.” The heroes chosen are: John Muir, John Burroughs, Wilfred
  Grenfell, Captain Scott, Jacob Riis, Edward L. Trudeau, George
  Washington Goethals, Bishop Rowe, Samuel Pierpont Langley, Rupert
  Brooke, and Herbert C. Hoover. The book is illustrated with portraits
  and other pictures.

       + =Lit D= 55:56 D 8 ‘17 70w

       + =N Y Times= 22:441 O 28 ‘17 70w


=PARKMAN, MARY ROSETTA.= Heroines of service. il *$1.35 (2½c) Century
920 17-25609

  The author has written sketches of the lives of eleven women: Mary
  Lyon; Alice Freeman Palmer; Clara Barton; Frances E. Willard; Julia
  Ward Howe; Anna Howard Shaw; Mary Antin; Alice C. Fletcher; Mary
  Slessor; Marie Sklodowska Curie, Jane Addams. Writing of the work of
  these women, she says, “The service of the true woman is always
  ‘womanly.’ She gives something of the fostering care of the mother,
  whether it be as nurse, like Clara Barton; as teacher, like Mary Lyon
  and Alice Freeman Palmer; or as social helper, like Jane Addams. So it
  is that the service of these ‘heroines’ is that which only women could
  have given to the world.” Each sketch is accompanied by a portrait and
  there are other illustrations.

  “A timely book whose only fault is a happy one, a tendency to
  idealize.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 50w

  “She makes an evident aim to avoid controversy regarding the
  comparative claims to greatness in each of her subjects. The style of
  narration is intimate and chatty.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 14 ‘17 110w

       + =N Y Times= 22:441 O 28 ‘17 70w


=PARRISH, RANDALL.=[2] Devil’s own. il *$1.40 (2c) McClurg 17-28849

  The time of the story is the year of the Black Hawk war, and that
  outbreak has a part in the climax of the tale. It is with one of the
  problems of slavery, however, that the plot is concerned. In
  journeying down the river, Lieutenant Knox falls in with Joe Kirby,
  the gambler. Kirby has been playing cards with Judge Beaucaire of
  Missouri and has taken from him his home and all his possessions,
  including his slaves. From Kirby himself, Lieutenant Knox learns that
  the gambler’s main motive is to gain possession of Rene Beaucaire, the
  girl reputed to be Judge Beaucaire’s daughter, altho in reality she is
  his granddaughter, the child of his son and a quadroon girl.
  Technically she is his slave. Moved by the tragic fate of this unknown
  girl, Knox sets out to save her; a task which involves the rescue also
  of Eloise Beaucaire, the judge’s real daughter.

  “As is usual in Mr Parrish’s novels, the detail is conscientiously
  sketched, giving a vivid impression of the political and racial
  conditions in ‘Missury’ in 1832.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 N 28 ‘17 350w

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 40w

  “The story is tedious in the telling, despite the fact that it brims
  with exciting adventures and dreadful experiences. Its most
  interesting feature is the description of the hidden trail whereby
  slaves escaped to freedom in the days before the war.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:518 D 2 ‘17 300w

  “Tales of frontier and pioneer days will probably never lose their
  flavor with native Americans. The period was so dramatic a one in the
  history of the United States that it requires very little departure
  from established facts to make a story that stirs the imagination and
  arouses the liveliest interest from its first to last chapter.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 370w


=PARRY, THOMAS WOOD.= When Daddy was a boy. il *$1.25 (2½c) Little

  A series of stories told by a father to his little son. They are
  sketches of boyhood on a Kentucky farm. Many of them are stories about
  animals. In others a black mammy and little negro playmates are
  introduced. One is a negro folk tale, included as typical of the many
  told to the author as a child.

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:495 D ‘17 100w

  “The fact that Daddy lived in a Kentucky home adds a delicious flavor.
  The book is well illustrated.”

       + =Ind= 92:446 D 1 ‘17 30w

  “Every one will like ‘When Daddy was a boy.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:441 O 28 ‘17 120w

  “The incidents are such as a child likes to hear, and the negroes are
  well portrayed.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 80w


=PARSONS, CARL COPELAND.= Office organization and management. (Business
administration, section 18) il $2.50 La Salle extension univ. 658
17-8877

  The author’s aim has been to supply a broad view of all phases of
  office management. The work is based on observation of the principles
  employed in such offices as those of the National cloak and suit
  company, Sherwin-Williams company, National cash register company, and
  others. The author, who is now manager of the Shaw-Walker company of
  New York, was formerly lecturer in business administration at the
  University of Michigan. Contents; Organization; Laying out the office;
  Office employees; Office training; Rules and regulations; Discipline;
  Methods of payment; Promotions; Increasing efficiency; Suggestions and
  ideas; Esprit de corps; Vacations; Encouragement of savings; Making
  employees stockholders; Pension systems; Machinery of the office; etc.
  The volume is provided with various forms by way of illustration, is
  fully indexed, and made more useful as a text by the inclusion of test
  questions for students.

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 90w

  “By introducing many extracts from the manuals of business houses and
  by concerning himself entirely with the most practical problems of
  modern business, Carl C. Parsons makes his ‘Office organization and
  management’ a valuable piece of work. These things also make an
  intentionally technical work vastly more interesting than a purely
  theoretical discussion.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 3 ‘17 150w


=PARTRIDGE, EDWARD BELLAMY.= Sube Cane. il *$1.35 Penn 17-13316

  “The ten-years-old hero of ‘Sube Cane’ enjoys a series of adventures
  which Edward Bellamy Partridge relates for grown-ups. Sube’s escapades
  are very like those engaged in by other mischievous boys who have
  broken into fiction.” (Springf’d Republican) “‘Sube’ is ‘all boy.’ His
  is the ingenuity and ingenuousness of adolescence and those who have a
  furtive sympathy with the innate genius for mischief which
  characterizes youth will find a humor which does not tax their
  credulity or patience.” (Dial)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:27 O ‘17

  “An authentic story of boyhood.”

       + =Dial= 63:118 Ag 16 ‘17 110w

  “The book is something on the ‘Penrod’ order; not perhaps so gifted
  with real humor, but certainly full of fun and comic incidents.”

       + =Outlook= 116:522 Ag 1 ‘17 50w

  “Sube is either less inventive, or the author sees him with a less
  humorous eye than Mr Tarkington’s, for his adventures arouse
  comparatively few smiles. But in spite of that, he is natural, and has
  little of the offensive precociousness often lavished upon boys whose
  activities form the basis of such a story.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 100w


=PATERNOSTER, GEORGE SIDNEY.= Great gift. *$1.40 (2c) Lane 17-28803

  To Hugh Standish has come the crowning honor of his career. At
  forty-six he is to enter the British cabinet. But it is at this moment
  that he begins to realize the emptiness of his life. Love, home,
  family affection for the first time seem to him desirable. In Olive
  Ingstrom, a girl of twenty, he believes that he has found the
  fulfilment of his new ideal, and for a time he deludes himself,
  mistaking her respect and youthful admiration for love. Fortunately he
  comes to see the truth before two young lives have been blighted. The
  war menace is gathering at the story’s close, promising to Hugh new
  activities and opportunities for service.

  “The business ethics of the hero, and his attitude to life generally,
  will not appeal to those whose outlook is more spiritual, but the fact
  that he recognized that he had missed the best in life ... will cause
  them to close the book with feelings of sympathy dominating those of
  criticism.”

     + — =Ath= p471 S ‘17 90w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 360w

  “The book offers one of those English half-and-half politics and
  society novels for which Mrs Humphry Ward long ago set the standard.
  But Mr Paternoster does not follow Mrs Ward’s pattern. He has his own
  pattern, which is simpler than hers and has fewer of the trimmings of
  sentiment.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:413 O 21 ‘17 300w

  “The hero is just a little too successful to be realistic. ... It is
  in the last third of the book, when war is about to break out ... that
  the novelist begins to show his power.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:90 Ag 4 ‘17 330w


=PATERSON, MRS ISABEL.= Magpie’s nest. *$1.40 (2c) Lane 17-9810

  The author is a young Canadian novelist and this is the second book in
  which she pictures life in the big Canadian northwest. Hope Fielding,
  born on the prairies, demands that life give her happiness, and
  because she does not find it near at hand, she goes far in search of
  it. But the French have a saying that happiness is to be found in a
  magpie’s nest; because the magpie always builds out of reach. It is
  only when Hope has given up looking for it, that happiness overtakes
  her. One of the new and growing cities of Alberta is the scene of the
  greater part of the story, but at one time Hope’s quest takes her to
  Seattle, at another to New York.

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 3 ‘17 330w

  “Isabel Paterson’s heroine reminds one of Owen Johnson’s ‘Salamander,’
  a fact which will doubtless recommend the book to many.”

       — =Dial= 62:483 My 31 ‘17 90w

  “As in Mrs Paterson’s former novel, ‘The shadow riders,’ the scene of
  a part of the story is in the Canadian northwest, the descriptions of
  which are fresh and vivid. The book is remarkably well written, and
  holds the reader’s interest in spite of its reprehensible characters
  and very unpleasant situations.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:137 Ap 15 ‘17 320w

       + =Outlook= 116:32 My 2 ‘17 50w

  “The latter part of the story is in obedience to the conventional
  requirement of a happy ending and is quite ordinary work. But the
  first two-thirds ring absolutely true, built from the storied memories
  of tense, full, eager, devouring youth. The vitality, the wonder, and
  the hope of immaturity are poured out for us.” M. A. Hopkins

     + — =Pub W= 91:1320 Ap 21 ‘17 430w

  “It shows a great advance on Miss Paterson’s previous novel ‘The
  shadow riders’; and, moreover, it is by no means devoid of humour.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p238 My 17 ‘17 230w


=PATRI, ANGELO.= Schoolmaster of the great city. *$1.25 (2c) Macmillan
371 17-13273

  A piece of autobiography and a study of educational conditions as they
  exist in New York city today. The author came to America from Italy
  when a boy. He was eleven years old when he entered an American
  school, and ten years later, having been sent thru college by a father
  who earned two dollars a day, he came back to the city schools as a
  teacher. In time, after another interval spent in study, he passed on
  to a principalship. In this book he writes of his association with the
  schools, as pupil, as teacher and as principal. He shows how the
  humanizing touch has made itself felt in spite of the big unwieldy
  educational system and how school has been linked with community as
  the first step toward making a new and a better America.

  “As interesting to the parent as to the teacher.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:42 N ‘17

         =Cleveland= p124 N ‘17 80w

  “Mr Patri’s honest and unpretentious book contains both wisdom and
  inspiration for every teacher and every parent, everywhere.” Clyde
  Furst

       + =Educ R= 54:516 D ‘17 1000w

  “The author knows how to tell a story and when he has told it his
  point needs no further enforcing. The issues which are so sacred to
  the old education seem trivial in the face of the realities of present
  day requirements.”

       + =Ind= 91:295 Ag 25 ‘17 200w

  “It has the rare gift of unfolding, without consciousness, the real
  character of an uncommon man.”

       + =Nation= 104:738 Je 21 ‘17 470w

  “The simple anecdotes introduce you to real people. That is what makes
  the book interesting reading, even if you are not concerned with
  schools and with children. This is a human document, not a pedagogical
  treatise.” B. C. G.

       + =N Y Call= p14 My 27 ‘17 800w

  “Mr Patri’s vision of what the public school should be and should do
  in American life, in city and country, in rich neighborhoods and poor
  neighborhoods alike, is an inspiring and an aspiring vision.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:282 Jl 29 ‘17 480w

  “His book has in it entertainment and valuable suggestions also.”

       + =Outlook= 116:233 Je 6 ‘17 20w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:692 O ‘17 90w

  “Patri’s book has been compared to Jacob Riis’s portrayal of the lives
  of the common people in ‘How the other half lives.’ Like Riis, he sees
  the flaws of our social and educational systems more clearly because
  of his foreign birth. ... His work has been done in New York, but his
  experiments are of interest in all American cities. ... Mr Patri was
  given the principalship of school no. 45, in the Bronx, and he has
  made it into a model Gary school—one that is a real community center.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:73 Jl ‘17 2350w

  “There is no theorizing or dogmatizing. You see the children and the
  mothers and the homes with his own eyes. You unravel the snarls and
  tangles with him. You marvel that the despised craft of teaching could
  be so dramatic, could call for such skill and talent. Schoolmasters
  like Mr Patri would make teaching the most important of professions,
  and education the finest of the arts.” Randolph Bourne

       + =Survey= 38:422 Ag 11 ‘17 650w


=PATTERSON, AUSTIN MCDOWELL.= German-English dictionary for chemists.
*$2 Wiley 540.3 17-6769

  “The scope of the book is broader than the title would seem to
  indicate. It gives English meanings, not only of German words
  occurring in the literature of general and industrial chemistry, but
  includes words used in scientific and technical literature generally,
  as well as a good general German vocabulary.”—Quar List New Tech Bks

  “Dr Patterson has filled what has long been an irritating lacuna in
  the average chemist’s library. ... The book should be eagerly welcomed
  by the steadily increasing number of young chemists in England and
  America and by those who, even if they have already a good working
  knowledge of the language, are occasionally at fault. The book is
  clearly printed, the German being in roman type.”

       + =Nature= 100:144 O 25 ‘17 220w

  “‘The need of a book of this kind has been keenly felt by all
  scientific men.’”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p5 Ap ‘17 190w (Reprinted from India
         Rubber World My 1 ‘17)

  “Dr Patterson has performed a public service in the compilation. ...
  His extended experience as editor of Chemical Abstracts has given him
  exceptional qualifications for such an undertaking and the work shows
  the same painstaking care which characterized his successful work as
  editor. ... The printing is good, the covers are flexible, and the
  size is suited to the coat pocket.” C: H. Herty

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:462 My ‘17 60w (Reprinted from Journal of
         Industrial and Engineering Chemistry p422 Ap 1 ‘17)

  “Includes valuable suggestions on nomenclature.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:835 D ‘17 20w

       + =Pratt= p14 Jl ‘17 20w

  “Very useful to anyone who has occasion to read German scientific or
  technical books and periodicals.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 70w

  “Since its appearance in January it has been in constant use in the
  office of ‘Chemical Abstracts,’ where translating work involving every
  phase of theoretical and applied chemistry is done and it has stood
  this test of completeness in such a way as to justify the confidence
  with which it is used.” E. J. Crane

       + =Science= n s 46:414 O 26 ‘17 510w


=PEABODY, FRANCIS GREENWOOD.= Religious education of an American
citizen. *$1.25 (3c) Macmillan 204 17-20853

  This book is “an attempt by the emeritus professor of Christian morals
  at Harvard to analyze the various influences which direct and go to
  make up the religious training of the average American.” (Springf’d
  Republican) Chapter eleven, The conversion of militarism, is
  reminiscent of William James’ “Moral equivalent for war.” The last
  chapter deals with The place of Jesus Christ in a religious
  experience.

  “In vain do we look for any definite statement by the author as to the
  nature of Christ. And if he wavers in this fundamental belief, what
  light or leading can be expected from him on the momentous question of
  ‘The religious education of an American citizen?’”

       — =Cath World= 106:113 O ‘17 700w

         =Cleveland= p123 N ‘17 60w

  “Some patent defects that one grieves so often to find in religious
  writers of prominence are an over-reliance on pretty verbosities, a
  habit of glib mosaic of biblical quotation designed to fit into modern
  problems (going back for its warrant to the infallibility of the
  scriptures), and a trait that naturally goes with the latter—an odd
  combination of sound and serious reflection with ramshackle logic. But
  there is plenty of meat in this book.”

     + — =Dial= 63:278 S 27 ‘17 350w

  “The intimate and perplexing problems of the mind, in which faith,
  character and modern progress are factors, are dealt with
  helpfully. ... The chapter on the conversion of militarism is
  especially pertinent, but Dr Peabody almost seems to fall into the
  common failure to properly interpret Jesus Christ in relation to
  militarism. ... If we must have militarism a while longer, we wish
  that we might have the courage to possess it without torturing the
  teaching of Jesus to justify us.” L: A. Walker

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Ag 5 ‘17 300w

  “An ideal work, the cream of long and rich experience.”

       + =Outlook= 117:26 S 5 ‘17 90w

  “Particularly helpful at this time is the chapter on ‘The conversion
  of militarism.’ Dr Peabody thinks the youth of America should be given
  constructive social work to fill the place which some would gladly see
  assigned permanently to military training. ... The book is written
  with distinction of thought and style.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 12 ‘17 250w


=PEABODY, JAMES.= Railway organization and management. 2v il LaSalle
extension univ. 385 17-689

  “This is one of a series of books on interstate commerce and railway
  traffic. Its purpose is to explain the functions of the various
  departments of the railway and the duties of the officers and
  employees. ... Naturally the greater part of the book consists of a
  detailed analysis of the three great divisions of railroad
  organization—operating, traffic, and accounting; but brief mention is
  made of the corporate organization and of certain miscellaneous
  departments, such as relief, pensions, publicity. Some little
  attention is given to the valuation work which has been forced upon
  the railroads by the federal government.” (Am Econ R) The author has
  been statistician for the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fé railway.

  “The arrangement of the book is somewhat faulty resulting in many
  needless repetitions. A fairly full index remedies this defect to some
  extent. There is also a noticeable lack of balance in the
  apportionment of space to the various topics. On the whole, however,
  the work affords the student of transportation and the layman a
  considerable amount of information concerning the organization and
  operation of a railway though it is too superficial to be of much use
  to a railroad man or to any one who desires an intimate knowledge of
  the subject.” C. W. Doten

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:121 Mr ‘17 250w

         =Ind= 91:31 Jl 7 ‘17 60w

  “No such complete list and description of railway positions has been
  put into any previous work. Elaborate charts show the relations of the
  officials to each other and guide the reader through the almost
  infinite complexities of the organization.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 O 28 ‘16 250w


=PEARS, SIR EDWIN.= Life of Abdul Hamid. il *$2 (1½c) Holt 17-31756

  “A word of apology on my part may, perhaps, be expected for having
  included this sorry creature, Abdul Hamid, among the ‘Makers of the
  nineteenth century,’” writes Basil Williams in his General editor’s
  preface, continuing, “and yet as an influence on the political thought
  and action of Europe in the last quarter of the nineteenth century, as
  one who has handed down that evil influence to the Europe of this
  century, Abdul Hamid may justly lay claim to be included among those
  who have helped in large measure to make or mar the world into which
  we were born.” It is in much the same spirit that the author takes up
  the career of “the greatest of the destroyers of the Turkish empire.”
  Sir Edwin Pears is author also of “The fall of Constantinople” and
  “The destruction of the Greek empire.”

  “An authoritative and popular history. The chapters are topical, which
  makes useful the chronological table of events at the end of the book.
  The author weaves into the history the part played by British
  diplomacy. His estimate of the Sultan’s character is interesting and
  well balanced.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:167 F ‘18

         =Lit D= 56:39 Ja 12 ‘18 170w

  “True, the result is a trifle disappointing, for Sir Edwin has treated
  his subject from a topical rather than a chronological standpoint,
  which frequently causes confusion and gives rise to the necessity for
  elaborate mental cross-referencing.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:581 D 30 ‘17 520w

  “Sir Edwin Pears has dealt with all these matters in a most competent
  fashion, and his book will be the standard biography of the worst of
  all the Sultans.”

       + =Spec= 119:717 D 15 ‘17 310w

  “Abdul Hamid is the subject of just such an impartial, clear and
  comprehensive study as would be expected from a man of Sir Edwin
  Pears’s knowledge and profundity. If it is history more than it is
  biography, that fact is a natural consequence of the secrecy
  surrounding the life of the deposed emperor, and of the necessity of
  judging him by his public acts.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 1000w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p557 N 15 ‘17 50w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p592 D 6 ‘17 1750w


=PEARSE, PADRAIC H.= Collected works. il *7s 6d Maunsel, London 820.8

  “Padraic Pearse was among the Irishmen executed after the outbreak in
  Dublin in the Easter of 1916. He was thirty-six years old; but already
  for twenty years and more he had been working for the Ireland that he
  saw in a vision. He learned the Gaelic language, and so well that, as
  ‘Padraic MacPiarais,’ he was able to write poems in it and plays and
  stories. At seventeen he founded the New Ireland society in
  Dublin. ... He edited the weekly organ of the Gaelic league. He
  conducted a secondary school as Gaelic in ‘atmosphere’ as he could
  make it.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) The stories include the tale of
  “Iosagan” (Little Jesus), the mysterious, barefooted boy who came to
  play with the village boys, but disappeared when there were grown-ups
  about; of little Paraig, who used to play all alone at being a priest;
  of Brideen and her two dolls; of “The Dearg-Dool,” “in which the
  kindliest intentions seem hopelessly entangled with ancient doom”; of
  “The keening woman,” who came to London to plead with Queen Victoria
  on behalf of her son, imprisoned on suspicion of murder, etc. The
  plays all deal, directly or indirectly, with the history and politics
  of Ireland. The poems are filled with a confidence which contrasts
  strongly with the doubt expressed in the plays.

         =Ath= p412 Ag ‘17 190w

  “Those who look in the writings of Mr Pearse for that picturesque
  imagery which we are accustomed to find in the works of Irish authors
  will be disappointed, for there is little of it. There is a lack also
  of that humor, regarded as characteristically Irish, which by its
  piquant contrast adds poignancy to the homely tragedies of the Irish
  countryside.”

     + — =Spec= 119:272 S 15 ‘17 290w

  “They are what literature ought to be. Their ‘literary’ beauty is
  patent, even in these English translations. ... They are very finely
  wrought; full of fancy, of passion, of tender humour; in the treatment
  of children they are rarely true and tender. But their special claim
  to notice is that they are the many times refined expression of their
  author’s spiritual life. ... To the seeker after literature, the
  purified and exalted expression of spiritual life, it matters not a
  jot whether the poet be politically right or wrong. He may be a rebel
  and a traitor; but, unless he be cowardly and mean of soul, his
  literature may be noble. And the literature left by Pearse is not the
  literature of a coward or a mean man. ... It is the more interesting
  because visionaries of this kind seldom have the power of expressing
  themselves through the art of letters.”

     + + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p319 Jl 5 ‘17 1850w


=PEARSON, CHARLES CHILTON.= Readjuster movement in Virginia. (Yale
historical publications) *$2 (4½c) Yale univ. press 975.5 17-24995

  The movement which has been made the subject of this work represented
  a reaction against reconstruction. The author says of the book, “It is
  a chapter in the history of Virginia, from the Civil war to the first
  administration of Grover Cleveland, in which some of the forces that
  moulded the present state are shown in their operation; and in the
  showing the ‘Readjuster’ claim to liberalism, democracy, and progress
  is tested and due record made of the achievements and solid worth of
  those who stood for conservatism, aristocracy, and scrupulous
  honesty.” (Preface) A “bibliographical note” of six pages precedes the
  index. The author is professor of political science in Wake Forest
  college, North Carolina.

  “Politics make strange bedfellows. On this score the reviewer might
  find a little fault with the author. For the book, while it does refer
  to the national bearings of his subject, does not make clear enough
  the entanglements and commitments of this bastard Virginia party. ...
  There is a fairness in the book and an appreciation of the
  difficulties of politicians in steering the course of any given ship
  of state that promise well for the future writings of the author.”

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:417 Ja ‘18 950w

  Reviewed by S. C. Mitchell

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:140 F ‘18 500w

  “There is a long and bald array of facts and figures; however the book
  shows scholarly research, is carefully written, is well provided with
  notes and bibliography, and should have lasting historical value.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 30 ‘17 450w


=PEARSON, FRANCIS BAIL.= Reveries of a schoolmaster. *$1 (2c) Scribner
814 17-9711

  The author is State superintendent of public instruction in Ohio and
  has published books on “The evolution of the teacher,” “The
  high-school problem,” and other educational subjects. In this book he
  writes informally of the schoolmaster’s calling and of some of the
  problems of life in the light of his experience as a teacher. Homely
  analogies drawn from a country boyhood add an individual touch to the
  little essays. Among the subjects are: Retrospect; Lanterns; Complete
  living; Freedom; Things; Hoeing potatoes; Changing the mind; The point
  of view; Picnics; Make-believe; Story-telling.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:392 Je ‘17

       + =Boston= Transcript p13 Ap 7 ‘17 470w

  “Thirty-one well-organized little essays, full of kindly, homely
  wisdom based on both reading and human experience. ... The book will
  be of especial interest to those who have to deal with young people,
  or to students themselves.”

       + =Cleveland= p74 Je ‘17 50w

  “Mr Francis B. Pearson has put much homely philosophy and the results
  of sound reflection in this little book.”

       + =Educ R= 54:208 S ‘17 30w

  “In nearly all are one or more common sense suggestions on wise and
  tactful methods of boy training.”

       + =Ind= 91:295 Ag 25 ‘17 40w

  “They are generally sensible, they are occasionally witty; but they
  abound in stale anecdotes and trite quotations, and they are prone to
  ‘announce commonplaces as if they were discoveries.’ All these are, of
  course, besetting sins of teachers. It is probably better to talk over
  your pupils’ (or readers’) heads than to talk under their feet. The
  latter is Mr Pearson’s danger.”

     + — =Nation= 105:259 S 6 ‘17 140w

       + =School R= 25:303 Ap ‘17 10w

  “Although the writer avoids technical cant and disclaims any
  assumption of authority, the morals of his parables are plain and
  enlightening. The critical reader, however, may find in Mr Pearson’s
  style blemishes which seriously mar the charm of the whole. Rather too
  often is the writer ingenuous, obtrusively rustic and facetious,
  which, in a book of this nature, may lead one to distrust the writer’s
  judgment.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p10 My 18 ‘17 430w


=PEARSON, FRANCIS BAIL.= Vitalized school. *$1.40 Macmillan 370 17-4795

  “The ‘vitalized school,’ according to Mr Pearson (who is state
  superintendent of public instruction in Ohio) is nothing but a school
  with a vitalized teacher in charge. In general, his book is an attempt
  to bring together some of the fundamental modern implications of
  teaching in a way that will induce teachers to incorporate them into
  the practice of their profession. ... It consists of a series of short
  treatises, aiming to be both practical and inspirational, on teaching
  as related to life: on ‘the teacher,’ ‘the child,’ ‘democracy,’ ‘the
  artist teacher,’ ‘the socialized recitation,’ ‘the school and the
  community,’ ‘a sense of humor,’ ‘poetry and life,’ ‘examinations,’
  etc.”—Survey

         =St Louis= 15:171 Je ‘17

  “An inspirational rather than an informational book. ... The style
  throughout is free and easy and especially adapted to the teacher of
  little training and experience. The questions and exercises at the end
  of each chapter suggest that the author expects his work to be used
  both as a text and as a reading-circle book. In either of these
  capacities it would be more valuable for what it suggests than for
  what it contains.”

         =School R= 25:461 Je ‘17 200w

  “There is much that teachers, and other people, too, will do well to
  ponder. ... The book suffers somewhat from its sustained effort to
  treat broad, elusive, ‘inspirational’ subjects and relationships as if
  they were matter for exact exposition and could be stated as facts to
  be acquired rather than feelings to be aroused. Perhaps (though we
  doubt it) this is suited to the intended audience. Then, too, Mr
  Pearson makes a bad guess occasionally in his illustrations: such as
  when he quotes a statement that the first purpose of the schools at
  Gary is to make efficient workers for the mills.” W. D. L.

       + =Survey= 38:422 Ag 11 ‘17 500w


=PEARSON, THOMAS GILBERT.= Bird study book. il *$1.25 (3½c) Doubleday
598.2 17-8225

  This book is meant to serve as a guide to beginners in bird study. It
  is not a compendium of facts about birds and their habits. Facts are
  not lacking, but its primary purpose is to tell the student how to
  begin, where to look, and what to look for. There are chapters on:
  First acquaintance with the birds; The life about the nest: Domestic
  life of the birds; The migration of birds; The birds in winter; The
  economic value of birds; Civilization’s effect on the bird supply: The
  traffic in feathers; Bird-protective laws and their enforcement; Bird
  reservations; Making bird sanctuaries; Teaching bird study. There are
  illustrations from photographs and drawings. The author is secretary
  of the National association of Audubon societies.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:11 O ‘17

  “Presents briefly much information that would be overwhelming in
  formidable scientific publications; and is intended to stimulate
  rather than to satisfy. Those who are disposed to cultivate an
  intelligent interest in the habits of their bird neighbors, will find
  the necessary help and inspiration for beginners in the matter here
  presented for their guidance.”

       + =Cath World= 105:684 Ag ‘17 100w

         =Cleveland= p69 My ‘17 30w

  “The last chapter, Teaching bird study, will be of specific value to
  teachers, to whom, rather than to the novice in field study, the whole
  book will be of considerable general value.”

     + — =Nation= 105:130 Ag 2 ‘17 270w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:414 My ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:141 My ‘17


=PEARY, ROBERT EDWIN.= Secrets of polar travel. il *$2.50 (5c) Century
919.8 17-30385

  A book devoted to what might be termed the technique of polar
  exploration. In his former book, “The north pole,” the author gave a
  brief summary of his methods. In this work he has elaborated that
  brief account, giving details of the system which, evolving gradually
  thru his years of endeavor, enabled him finally to reach the pole.
  Contents: Building a polar ship; Selecting men; Supplies and
  equipment; Ice navigation; Winter quarters; Polar clothing;
  Utilization of Eskimos and dogs; Utilizing the resources of the
  country; Sledge equipment; Sledge-traveling. In a brief conclusion, he
  touches on air travel as a possible means of arctic exploration.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:126 Ja ‘18

  “A notable book on arctic journeys ... by the man who is more
  competent than any other in the world to discuss the subject.” A. M.
  Chase

       + =Bookm= 46:334 N ‘17 150w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 D 1 ‘17 420w

  “It presents the conclusions as to the best methods of exploration in
  polar regions which the author has worked out during his years of
  arctic journeyings, and presents them with such constant and varied
  illustration of incidents and facts and personal observations as to
  make the narrative far more interesting than the account of a single
  expedition.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:449 N 4 ‘17 1100w

  “It is a book for every explorer and every lover of high adventure.”

       + =Outlook= 117:433 N 14 ‘17 50w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 21 ‘18 360w


=PEASE, MARGARET.= Jean Jaurès, socialist and humanitarian; with an
introd. by J. Ramsay Macdonald. *$1 (3½c) Huebsch. 17-26782

  This book has been written to acquaint English readers with the
  socialist editor, author, orator and parliamentary leader whom J.
  Ramsay Macdonald, in his introduction, calls “the greatest democratic
  personal force in Europe—even in the world,” and who, after having
  spent the last day of his life in a vain effort to avert the war, was
  assassinated on July 31, 1914. Chapter 1 gives “a short sketch of the
  man and his career.” Succeeding chapters on Socialism, Jaurès and the
  Dreyfus case, Socialist methods, “The new army,” and International
  peace, while giving Jaurès’s views and actions, necessarily also
  contribute much to the history of French socialism.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:42 N ‘17

  Reviewed by H. A. Yeomans

         =Am Pol Sci R= 12:154 F ‘18 170w

  “This book is cursorily written and, though laudatory, is far from
  making out the ‘greatness’ of its hero. As is to be expected, many
  hoary old calumnies are brought forward against Catholicism. Yet in
  reality it is not Catholicism which Mrs Pease so bitterly attacks, but
  something quite other, that ancient and fanciful monster we had long
  since thought deceased, ‘the Romish church.’ That the authoress
  resurrects the word is sufficient comment on the intellectual quality
  of her book.”

       — =Cath World= 106:395 D ‘17 520w

  “Of particular interest at present is the discussion of the opinions
  of Jaurès on military policy.”

       + =Ind= 92:56 O 6 ‘17 80w
       + =R of Rs= 56:439 O ‘17 70w

  “The French accused Jaurès, more particularly in his later years, of
  pro-German sympathies. ‘M. Jaurès, c’est l’Allemagne,’ wrote M.
  Charles Maurras about a fortnight before the war; and it has not
  unnaturally been assumed that this was the charge which loaded the
  pistol of the assassin. His firm article of faith was that the German
  ‘comrades’ did not want war, and that war might be prevented by the
  open-hearted appeal of a French socialist whom they trusted. ... Mrs
  Pease’s volume will help readers to understand his place in recent
  history, though her exposition of his ideas is more enthusiastic than
  critical.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p497 O 19 ‘16 870w


=PEASE, THEODORE CALVIN.= Leveller movement; a study in the history and
political theory of the English great civil war. (Prize essays, 1915)
$1.50 Am. hist. assn. 942.06 17-9688

  “Dr Pease, of Illinois university, has made a careful study of the
  Leveller movement led by John Lilburne during the civil war. He
  emphasizes the Levellers’ demand for a supreme law which neither king
  nor Parliament could override, because in this respect they
  anticipated the founders of the American constitution. Dr Pease is
  unusually sympathetic towards Lilburne, though he does not vouch for
  the honesty of that clever but unattractive man, and sees that if the
  Levellers had shattered the discipline of the army Charles II would
  have come back in 1649 and crushed Presbyterians, Independents, and
  Levellers alike.”—Spec

  “It is unfortunate that space limitations prevented the inclusion of
  the bibliography in full, for which many students of the period would
  have been very grateful. Finally, Mr Pease is quite right in his
  admission that his study is ‘avowedly sympathetic.’ Whatever the
  admirable qualities of Lilburne and his fellow-Levellers, however glad
  one may be that such doctrines as they advocated found voice, it still
  remains a question whether, in their own day, they helped or hindered
  real progress. It is to be hoped that Mr Pease will add to his
  excellent study a supplementary treatise on their relations to
  every-day affairs, apart from the realm of political theory. For such
  a study no one is so well qualified.” W. C. Abbott

       + =Am Hist R= 22:900 Jl ‘17 550w

  “A very solid and valuable contribution to history and political
  science, and much the most detailed and thorough study we have of the
  political theory of probably the most interesting group in a most
  momentous period.” C. H. McIlwain

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:584 Ag ‘17 600w

  “Reveals research work of value and importance.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 My 9 ‘17 300w

  “The book is written with strict attention to the rules of sound
  historical workmanship and embodies the result of patient research in
  materials of unquestioned trustworthiness.”

       + =Nation= 106:120 Ja 31 ‘18 220w

       + =Spec= 118:678 Je 16 ‘17 130w

  “Mr Pease includes in the volume a bibliography as painstaking and
  thorough as his text.”

 *     + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 13 ‘17 4200w

  “This book, which won the Herbert Baxter Adams prize in European
  history in 1915, appears at a fortunate, or at least an appropriate,
  moment. It tells of a struggle between Moderates and Extremists in the
  course of a great revolution, and, though it would be very difficult
  to construct an historical parallel between events in England from
  1647 to 1649 and events in Russia in 1917, there is a certain element
  of similarity in the applications of enthusiastic idealism to new
  conditions.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p248 My 24 ‘17 1800w


=PEAT, HAROLD R.=[2] Private Peat. il *$1.50 (3c) Bobbs 940.91 17-29848

  Private Peat is a Canadian soldier who experienced the whole gamut of
  war sensations from the thrill of enlistment to the loss of
  consciousness “out there” when he lay in the open two nights and a day
  before the stretcher bearers found him. His narrative is full of the
  grimness and humor of life in the trenches and behind the lines. But
  most of all he shows the soldier’s clear quality of courage to live
  because he must through an inferno of destruction and death, of murder
  and horror. Romance is a part of the story. The last chapter is
  written by the girl herself—a free lance of Fleet street—whose
  advertisement concerning a lost cousin was the beginning of a hospital
  acquaintance with the disabled private which ended in marriage after
  his return to Canada for discharge. The writer is on a successful
  lecture tour in America now.

  “It is for the most part more serious than ‘Over the top,’ yet it also
  reflects the indomitable humor of the ‘Tommy’ and it is entertainingly
  written.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:124 Ja ‘18

  “He gives a colorful, varied picture of life at the front in all its
  aspects.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:546 D 9 ‘17 830w

  “If a person has ever felt a strong desire to talk with one of the
  boys who has been in the thick of it on the western front, let him get
  ‘Private Peat.’” Joseph Mosher

       + =Pub W= 92:2025 D 8 ‘17 290w


=PEATTIE, ELIA (WILKINSON) (MRS ROBERT BURNS PEATTIE).= Newcomers. il
*$1.25 (4c) Houghton 17-24275

  This story for older girls has appeared as a serial in the Youth’s
  Companion. The Wardells come to Dalroy, Illinois, as strangers. Robert
  Wardell has been offered his first position as an engineer on the dam
  which is to be built on the Rock river. His mother and two sisters
  accompany him. Dalroy is a sorry enough looking town at first sight,
  but, resolved to make the best of it, the Wardells enter
  wholeheartedly into its life. The tact and sympathy of the mother and
  the kindness and high spirits of the young people make friends for
  them all and several blighted lives—like that of the old school
  teacher who has lost his position, and of the girl who is paying for
  her mother’s failings—are set in happier lines by their companionship.
  The touch of love interest blends unobtrusively into the narrative.

  “A pleasant story.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:137 Ja ‘18

  “A good love story for girls, lively, entertaining and with frequent
  touches of keen humor.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 30w

         =Lit D= 55:59 D 8 ‘17 70w


=PEDDIE, ROBERT ALEXANDER.= Outline of the history of printing. 2s 6d
Grafton & co., London 655.1

  The author is Cantor lecturer on the history of printing and librarian
  of the St Bride typographical library. This volume is a revised and
  enlarged edition of lectures delivered before the Royal society of
  arts in 1914. The first six chapters take up the history of printing
  by centuries, two chapters being given to The nineteenth century and
  after. Six chapters on the history of printing in colors follow.

  “Mr Peddie’s volume—it reaches scarcely more than fifty pages—contains
  much in little about the printer and printing.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 28 ‘17 820w


=PEIXOTTO, ERNEST CLIFFORD.= Revolutionary pilgrimage. il *$2.50
Scribner 973.3 17-28097

  “To the many American people who never visit or think of their
  historic places this volume will be a picturesque lesson in American
  history. Starting in Boston, we are shown by pen and picture the
  important buildings and places connected with the War of the
  revolution. From Boston we are taken over pleasant roads to Lexington
  and Concord, then to Lake Champlain, Saratoga, New York, New Jersey,
  the Carolinas, Virginia and Washington. One of the features of the
  book is that Mr Peixotto, by letter and document, lets many of the
  noted characters tell their own story. Paul Revere, Ethan Allen, and
  Major André all recount their own adventures. ... The illustrations
  are in black and white from Mr Piexotto’s own hand.”—Boston Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:90 D ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 D 1 ‘17 130w

  “Will appeal to all patriotic Americans, especially those
  contemplating a motor trip a little out of the ordinary.”

       + =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 60w

       + =Outlook= 117:350 O 31 ‘17 40w


=PELLETT, FRANK CHAPMAN.= Our backdoor neighbors. il *$1.50 Abingdon
press 590 17-30148

  “These backdoor neighbors are the red tails and cooper hawks with a
  taste for chicken meat; ‘Foxy’ Squirrel, who likes any kind of table
  dainties; the screech owls, partial to mice; ... and many other little
  creatures not always received in polite society. ... The Naturalist,
  as Mr Pellett designates himself, lives in a modest Iowa farmhouse
  among surroundings which he has left ‘uncultivated’ to a degree
  deplored by his human neighbors. ... His story proves that he has had
  unlimited enjoyment from association with his backdoor neighbors.
  Quite regardless of propriety he pries into their most intimate and
  private affairs.”—Pub W

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:191 D ‘17 40w

  “They will appeal to those who are either afraid of the over-technical
  ‘nature book’ or are skeptical of ‘nature faking.’ There is no trace
  of the latter in ‘Backdoor neighbors.’ It radiates sincerity nor is
  there any nauseating sentimentality.” R. D. Moore

       + =Pub W= 92:1385 O 20 ‘17 420w

  “The stories are told in a way to hold the reader’s attention, and at
  the same time furnish facts of value.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 60w


=PENNELL, ELIZABETH (ROBINS) (MRS JOSEPH PENNELL) (N. N., pseud.).=
Lovers. *$1 Lippincott (Eng ed 17-26658)

  “Like ‘Our house’ and ‘Nights,’ ‘The lovers’ is largely
  autobiographical, and like them it is written in Mrs Pennell’s own
  intimate manner that brings to its pages all the graces and
  imagination of fiction. Its action takes its beginning just outside
  the windows of Mrs Pennell’s own home in the heart of London, and
  although it carries us to the battlefields of France, her own part in
  the story and her commentary upon it adds to its persistent flavor of
  romance, and gives it a distinctive atmosphere of reality. ... As long
  ago as June, 1911, there appeared in the Century a short story by Mrs
  Pennell called ‘Les amoureux.’ It now forms, under title of ‘In the
  garret,’ the first chapter of the four chapters that make up ‘The
  lovers,’ for what Mrs Pennell thought was a complete story was merely
  its beginning.”—Boston Transcript

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:98 D ‘17

  “One of the few enduring books that have come or that are to come out
  of the great conflict.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 1550w

  “One of the few bits of real literature dealing with the war.”

       + =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 50w

  “‘The lovers’ is a book to bring the huge, wasteful tragedy of war
  strongly home to its readers.”

       + =Dial= 63:165 Ag 30 ‘17 420w

       + =Nation= 105:72 Jl 19 ‘17 200w

  “Because it is so simple, so tender, so human, so true, so absolutely
  of the stuff of life in wartime days, Mrs Pennell’s little tale
  deserves wide reading. The mere story of the story is a romance in
  itself.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:231 Je 17 ‘17 600w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:650 O ‘17 40w

       + =St Louis= 15:417 D ‘17 30w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p215 My 5 ‘17 120w

  “Among the best descriptions known to us of life under training in
  England and of certain sides of life at the front. Harold Chapin’s are
  not so vivid, so perceptive, nor so thoughtful. And the consolation is
  the ‘splendidness’ of this artist, lover, mystic, who could keep the
  flame of his spirit burning through all the drudgery, horror, and
  filth in which he had chosen gallantly to pass his days for his soul’s
  sake. Mrs Pennell has done her work with fine judgment.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p232 My 17 ‘17 530w


=PENNELL, JOSEPH.= Joseph Pennell’s pictures of war work in England;
with an introd. by H. G. Wells. il *$1.50 Lippincott 940.91 17-26395

  “Reproductions of a series of drawings and lithographs of munitions
  works, made by Mr Pennell with the permission of the British
  government, and accompanied by notes by the artist.” (Ath) “The
  drawings, etchings, and lithographs describe the activity of
  workshops, furnaces, forges, mine shafts, cranes, in time of war. The
  book really represents an apotheosis of machinery. Mere man is at a
  discount. When he does appear in these pages, he is but an elusive,
  fleeting figure.” (Outlook)

         =A L A Bkl= 13:388 Je ‘17

       + =Ath= p54 Ja ‘17 50w

  “These pictures are splendid, they are noble, they are victorious,
  they are inspired. The balance of light and shade, the sureness of the
  drawing, the keenness of observation betrayed by hundreds of valid
  details that have their due effect, make this book one of the most
  valuable documents of the great war.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 380w

         =Cleveland= p97 Jl ‘17 60w

  “That is his interpretation of the present war—a battle of the
  mechanical genii which have been evolved by human ingenuity, now
  become our masters—and destroyers. This interpretation is borne out by
  the brusque words commenting upon each drawing. There is much in this
  volume which it would be well for every American to ponder.”

       + =Dial= 63:29 Je 28 ‘17 200w

  “There are fifty-one full-page reproductions of Mr Pennell’s sketches,
  and for each the briefest of descriptions in choice and impressive
  language, sometimes tinged with laughter, oftener with tears. Every
  picture accents the terrible grimness of war.”

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 8 ‘17 190w

  “Mr Pennell has had exceptional facilities afforded him for obtaining
  these pictures. No such opportunity is available to the ordinary
  citizen, and next to the privilege of actually visiting the works
  themselves, no more effective means are available for obtaining a
  clear and vivid idea of all that is meant by the manufacture of
  munitions of war than that provided in this most interesting
  collection of drawings.” W. Ripper

       + =Nature= 98:385 Ja 18 ‘17 250w

  “Something of that strange anthropomorphic life with which Hardy can
  imbue even an ordinary cross-road, over which dead autumn leaves are
  swirling as if caressingly Mr Pennell lets be conveyed through his
  sketches of these new and tireless industrial giants.”

       + =New Repub= 12:141 S 1 ‘17 330w

  “Pennell’s book is one of the most valuable contributions to the
  literature of the present war, inasmuch as he gets closer to the truth
  than the writers of most of the nationalist publications with which
  the market is flooded.” L. G.

       + =N Y Call= p15 O 28 ‘17 430w

  “That these industrial subjects should be identified with a world war
  is not an inspiration to him, for he puts himself on record as not
  believing in war.”

         =N Y Times= 22:252 Jl 1 ‘17 200w

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 50w

       + =R of Rs= 55:548 My ‘17 120w

  “Mr Pennell works with such facility and industry that his drawings
  are open to the charge of superficiality. There is a sameness of
  emphasis and diffuseness of treatment which would not perhaps be
  observable in a smaller number of works.”

         =Spec= 118:644 Je 9 ‘17 170w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p8 Ja 4 ‘17 680w


=PENNY, FANNY EMILY (FARR) (MRS FRANK PENNY).= Love tangle. *$1.50
Dutton

  A novel the scene of which is laid in southern India. “The wide
  divergence of oriental and English ideals in general is emphasized
  here in two particulars: in ethics the problem of a police official’s
  duty when one of his kinsmen is a prisoner; and in marriage the
  impossibility of courtship under the existing native etiquet, and the
  hazards of interracial unions. The story involves three couples, two
  English sisters, a judge and a soldier, and two young Indians educated
  in England and moving in the same set with the others, but oriental at
  heart.” (Springf’d Republican)

  “The author of ‘A love tangle’ has written many romances of
  Anglo-Indian life. ... This one is a piece of amiable, feminine
  writing, relieved, for the occidental reader, by freshness of setting
  and motive.”

     + — =Nation= 105:149 Ag 9 ‘17 550w

       + =N Y Times= 22:250 Jl 1 ‘17 350w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 260w


=PERKINS, LUCY FITCH (MRS DWIGHT HEALD PERKINS).=[2] Belgian twins. il
*$1.25 (5½c) Houghton 17-29863

  The author has made Belgium in the early days of the war the scene of
  her latest “twin” book. In the end Jan and Marie, the Belgian twins,
  find a haven in New York. The author says that the story is based on
  the actual experience of two children.

  “Mrs Perkins has done well to introduce into the nursery some account
  of Belgian atrocities, not so gruesome that they will frighten the
  young reader, but sufficiently strong to leave a proper feeling in the
  minds of boys and girls regarding the unpardonable attack on a smaller
  country.”

       + =Lit D= 55:60 D 8 ‘17 70w

  “One reads real war history in the many things that happen to them.
  The author has made the most delightful sketches to illustrate the
  book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:547 D 9 ‘17 60w

       + =Outlook= 117:574 D 5 ‘17 60w


=PERRY, CLARENCE ARTHUR.= Community center activities. (Dept. of
recreation) *35c Russell Sage foundation 371.6 17-1504

  A handbook for community center directors. Its purpose is “to suggest
  activities for after-school occasions and to indicate sources of
  information about them.” The material in the main body of the book is
  arranged under such headings as: Civic occasions; Educational
  occasions; Entertainments; Handicrafts; Mental contests; Neighborhood
  service; Physical activities; etc. Preceding this is a classified
  index in which the various activities suitable for stated spaces,
  assembly room, kindergarten, gymnasium, etc., are grouped together. At
  the close a number of sample programs are given.

  “A suggestive handbook for parent-teacher associations.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:333 My ‘17

  “The material is unusually well organized in this report, and the
  activities and suggested literature so arranged that the reader can
  quickly find the desired information.”

       + =El School J= 17:532 Mr ‘17 220w

  “Should be of constant aid to social workers, teachers and others
  engaged in community organization.”

       + =Ind= 90:555 Je 23 ‘17 60w

  “Probably the greatest obstacle to the rapid development of social
  centers is a lack of leaders who know how to make them go. The
  Department of recreation of the Russell Sage foundation has offered
  one big means of equipping workers in public-school social centers in
  this little service-manual and reference book of something over 100
  pages.” R. N. Baldwin

       + =Survey= 38:175 My 19 ‘17 200w


=PERRY, L. DAY.= Seat weaving. il $1 Manual arts press 689 17-13349

  An elementary text-book for manual training classes, fully
  illustrated, which explains the processes of weaving cane, rush, reed
  or splint seats for chairs and stools. The author is supervisor of
  manual training in Joliet, Illinois.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:117 Ja ‘18

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:106 Jl ‘17

  “The clearly written directions are supplemented by seventy excellent
  photographs and line drawings.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p20 Jl ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p27 O ‘17 10w

  “Would also be a satisfactory guide to amateurs interested in this
  kind of work.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 50w


=PETERSON, ARTHUR.= Andvari’s ring. *$1.25 Putnam 811 16-25216

  The story of Sigurd retold in blank verse. The narrative is marked by
  a few innovations. Sigurd is pictured as a Norse rover by sea as well
  as by land. The action is placed near the middle of the fifth century,
  and into the second part of the narrative, after the death of Sigurd,
  Attila the Hun is introduced.

  “An old-fashioned poem well worth reading.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Mr 24 ‘17 380w

         =St Louis= 15:151 My ‘17 10w


=PETERSON, ARTHUR EVERETT, and EDWARDS, GEORGE WILLIAM.=[2] New York as
an eighteenth century municipality. (Columbia univ. studies in history,
economics and public law) *$5 Longmans 352

  “If it is well for the office boy turned bank president to remember
  his obscure beginnings, so it may be well for a community. New York is
  reminded in these two monographs that once ‘ye cytie’ found it
  necessary to proclaim that ‘every seaventh house in the darke time of
  the moon should cause a lanthorne and candle to be hung out on a pole
  every night,’ One reads of a municipal budget of $3,000 and a police
  department of eight men.” (New Repub) “Part 1 of the volume, prepared
  by Mr Peterson, carries the study up to 1731; Mr Edwards deals with
  the period running from 1731 to 1776.” (N Y Times)

  “All the germs of municipal institutions are here competently examined
  and arranged, with not a little spice of humor in the selection of
  quotations.”

       + =New Repub= 13:sup18 N 17 ‘17 120w

         =N Y Times= 23:21 Ja 20 ‘18 60w

  “These minute and comprehensive accounts of the beginnings of a vast
  city might be called studies in evolution, so strikingly do they show
  how the municipal oak has grown from a tiny acorn. They will prove
  invaluable to students, but also entertaining to the general reader.”

       + =Outlook= 117:433 N 14 ‘17 70w


=PETERSSON, C. E. W.= How to do business with Russia; with notes and
additional chapters by W. Barnes Steveni. *$2.25 Pitman 382 17-28940

  “This volume contains a summary of the experience and business methods
  of Mr C. E. W. Petersson, a merchant of Petrograd and Riga, who for
  many years successfully carried on a large trade in machinery and
  kindred goods with various Russian towns.” (Preface) The translator,
  W. Barnes Steveni, who has himself written several books on Russia,
  states that he has made “such additions and alterations as may cause
  the book to be of more value to British and American readers.” He says
  also, that while the Russian revolution will “modify considerably some
  of the questions dealt with in this work,” because the towns will
  change quickly, the “real Russia, which is mainly agricultural and
  pastoral, will alter but slowly” and therefore the hints of
  information here given will always be of value. Part 1 deals with
  “Russia as a field for business enterprise,” while part 2 gives “Hints
  and advice to business men dealing with Russia.” An appendix gives
  “Consular information and postal regulations.” The foreword is by
  Charles E. Musgrave, secretary to the London chamber of commerce.
  There is a map of Russia, but no index.

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p286 Je 14 ‘17 60w


=PETHERBRIDGE, F. R.= Fungoid and insect pests of the farm. (Cambridge
farm institute) il *$1.25 Putnam 632 Agr16-1262

  “The author tells us this book has been written for those who wish to
  acquire some practical knowledge of farm and garden pests. It
  naturally does not aim at dealing with all the numerous enemies which
  affect crops, but rather at giving an accurate account of some of the
  commoner forms.”—Nature

  “It is a pity a great many more of the common pests were not included,
  especially amongst the arthropods, for then it would have been of very
  considerably greater value. The accounts also of many of the pests
  treated in the book are far too short to be really helpful.”

     + — =Nature= 99:144 Ap 19 ‘17 300w

  “This little book is well printed and well illustrated but is not
  extensive enough as to the number of diseases and pests discussed to
  justify the title. It can hardly serve as a very general reference for
  farmers and market gardeners as the authors have hoped. ... As a short
  reading text or bulletin to familiarize the public with mycological
  methods and to indicate possible remedial measures for control of a
  few pests, it contains interesting matter. ... No mention is made of
  any diseases of small fruits or of orchard and shade trees and but
  slight attention is given to the commonest garden crops.” H. L. Bolley

     + — =Science= n s 45:191 F 23 ‘17 370w


=PFISTER, OSKAR ROBERT.= Psychoanalytic method; auth. tr. by Dr C:
Rockwell Payne. il *$4 Moffat 130 17-4346

  “Dr Pfister is a pastor and seminary teacher in Zurich and a disciple
  of Freud. His book includes the definition and history of
  psychoanalysis, discussions of its theory and technique, and reports
  of what he has accomplished by its use in cases of neurotic
  students. ... The conclusion gives summarized examples of the
  practical benefits of psychoanalysis and what education has to expect
  from it. ... There are introductions by Sigmund Freud and G. Stanley
  Hall.”—N Y Times

  “Pfister’s book is designed to equip educators with the knowledge
  necessary to enable them to carry on psychoanalytic treatment of
  subnormal pupils as well as to foresee and prevent later
  abnormalities, the causes of which are operative, even in the earlier
  years, and may be detected only by means of the psychoanalytic
  technique. ... It is almost the only one that has a practical
  application to human problems outside of therapeutic ones. ... A part
  of Pfister’s treatise points out the applications of the Freudian
  theory to literature, art and religion ... and shows how the creative
  artist, is saved from his art by being a neurotic.” Wilfrid Lay

         =Bookm= 45:199 Ap ‘17 840w

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 28 ‘17 530w

  “A very technical presentation of psychoanalysis, used by Dr G.
  Stanley Hall as a textbook for his classes. The author’s method is to
  make a brief statement followed by a description of cases which
  illustrate his point.”

         =Cleveland= p91 Jl ‘17 40w

  “The book, while nowhere rising to the brilliance of some of the
  Freudian writings themselves, is probably the most careful and
  inclusive presentation yet published in English of the results
  attained and the theories elaborated by Freud and his followers. It
  excels in this respect such works as Brill’s ‘Psychanalysis’ and
  Hitschmann’s ‘Freud’s theories of the neuroses.’ Unfortunately, Dr
  Payne’s translation can claim only a moderate measure of success. The
  over-literalness of the renderings has given numerous passages an
  irksome awkwardness and, occasionally, obscurity. One needs sometimes
  to translate back to the German to arrive at the intended nuance of
  meaning.” E: Sapir

       + =Dial= 63:267 S 27 ‘17 2000w

  “The 588 pages of this book show what has actually been done through
  this psychological method. They contain most inspiring suggestions for
  the physician, theologian, and the pedagogue. Dr Pfister has made a
  comprehensive study of all the analytic methods which have been
  developed from Freud’s original theories, and any one reading his work
  will get a fair idea of the whole stretch of this rapidly growing
  field of psycho-therapeutics.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:325 S 2 ‘17 320w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 20 ‘17 150w


=PHELPS, EDITH M.=, comp. Selected articles on the income tax; with
special reference to graduation and exemption. (Debaters’ handbook ser.)
3d and enl ed *$1.25 (1½c) Wilson, H. W. 336.2 17-27760

  For this third edition of the Debater’s handbook on income tax all the
  material of the second edition has been retained and the volume has
  been brought up to date by the addition of new articles and
  references. As the preface states, the new edition is timely, in view
  of pending legislation for an increased income tax as part of the war
  revenue bill. Two features of the proposed law, the graduation of the
  tax and the exemption of incomes under a certain amount have been
  given special attention. Material is also provided covering recent
  state legislation.


=PHELPS, EDITH M.=, ed. University debaters’ annual. *$1.80 Wilson, H.
W. 808.5

  Volume three of the University debaters’ annual contains the
  constructive and rebuttal speeches delivered in the intercollegiate
  debates of the following colleges and universities: Iowa, Ohio state,
  Coe, Oberlin, Western Reserve, Columbia and Chicago. The subjects
  debated are: Government ownership of railroads; Universal military
  service; Compulsory arbitration of railroad labor disputes; Chinese
  and Japanese immigration; Compulsory arbitration; Progressive
  inheritance tax. For each subject a brief and bibliography are
  provided. The book follows volumes one and two, edited by E. C. Mabie.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:152 F ‘18

         =N Y Br Lib News= 5:14 Ja ‘18 20w


=PHILLIPPS, LISLE MARCH.= Europe unbound. *$1.75 (2½c) Scribner 940.9
17-4205

  Mr Phillipps is author of “Form and colour,” and other works on art.
  In the collection of essays in this book, he examines some of the
  fundamental causes of the war and the ideals that support the
  different fighting nations. He says, “My purpose has been to deal,
  however inadequately, not with the outward circumstances or immediate
  causes of the war, but with what I cannot help thinking are its real
  causes. I mean those slowly developing, intensely hostile, eternally
  incompatible philosophies of life of which the two opposing groups of
  the free and unfree nations of Europe are to-day the representatives.”
  Contents: Ideals of the war; Liberty; Liberty and Christianity; The
  Prussian ideal; The British empire; Empires past and present; The
  influence of France; Modern liberalism; Modern conservatism; The
  future.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:347 My ‘17

  “A book which shows more insight into the deeper issues of the war
  than any other, except Baron von Hügel’s ‘The German soul,’ that has
  appeared in England since 1914.”

       + =Ath= p143 Mr ‘17 1700w

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 27 ‘17 250w

  “Contains an impressive revelation of what the English masses are
  thinking.”

       + =Ind= 90:382 My 26 ‘17 70w

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:535 Jl ‘17 280w

  “Where I think Mr Phillipps is profoundly right is in his vigorous
  insistence on the authoritarian character of the German state and its
  dangers to the liberty of Europe. We badly need a book that would
  point out exactly what principles are involved in the exercise of
  political authority.” H. J. L.

       + =New Repub= 12:195 S 15 ‘17 1850w

  “It is characteristic—inevitable—that he should have studied the war
  as he has studied art and politics—as the expression of the great
  spiritual forces in the life of men and nations. ... On the need in
  England for realization, for clear thinking, for wise speech, and for
  democratic growth Mr Phillipps insists throughout his book. The volume
  as a whole is, in its study of ideals and ambitions, of pertinent
  interest to American students of the war.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:27 Ja 28 ‘17 1000w

  “We commend the book especially to clergymen and teachers of the
  young.”

       + =Outlook= 116:161 My 23 ‘17 100w

         =Pratt= p41 O ‘17 50w

  “His conception and his presentation of the idea of liberty are noble
  and inspiring. ... He is a democrat who really trusts the people. ...
  However much readers may disagree with many of the author’s points of
  view, they would be dull of soul if they did not find these essays
  stimulating and purifying in a high degree.”

       + =Spec= 118:74 Ja 20 ‘17 3000w

  “No part of his book will be read with more interest, and none is more
  valuable, than the frank criticism to which he submits not only the
  modern Conservative but also the modern Liberal party. Speaking as one
  who has done his part as a Liberal candidate for Parliament, he has
  the courage to say what innumerable men of all parties have thought.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p567 N 30 ‘16 1950w


=PHILLIPS, CHESTER ARTHUR.= Readings in money and banking. il *$2.10
Macmillan 332 16-19082

  “Instead of taking a large number of selections merely illustrative of
  the principles involved and setting them down individually, Professor
  Phillips chose from different writers what seemed to him the best
  available discussions of the principles themselves, and these
  discussions with correlative descriptive matter he wove together into
  approximately complete chapters. Hence ... the book leaves the
  impression of an organized treatise.”—Am Econ R

  “The reviewer believes that for class-room purposes the two books
  [Moulton: ‘Principles of money and banking’ and Phillips: ‘Readings in
  money and banking’] can be used with advantage to supplement each
  other. Outside of the class-room both would have to be used in
  connection with a good text.” E. E. Agger

       + =Am Econ R= 6:924 D ‘16 160w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:333 My ‘17

  “The chapters on the foreign banking systems are very opportune.” T:
  Conway, jr.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:227 My ‘17 120w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:172 N ‘16

         =Pittsburgh= 21:591 D ‘16

       + =Pol Sci Q= 31:650 D ‘16 60w

       + =R of Rs= 55:221 F ‘17 20w


=PHILLIPS, DAVID GRAHAM.= Susan Lenox, her fall and rise. 2v il *$2.50
(1c) Appleton 17-6327

  This two-volume novel is a study of prostitution and of a woman who
  rose to success after enduring degradation in all of its forms. Susan,
  an illegitimate child, grows up in the home of an uncle in a
  middle-western town. Denied a normal life by the stain of her birth,
  she is thrown out into the world at the age of seventeen. Economic
  pressure forces her on to the streets. She makes several efforts later
  to earn a living in legitimate ways, but always comes back to the one
  profession that seems to offer satisfactory compensation. In the end,
  thru the aid of a distinguished playwright, she wins success as an
  actress.

  “That Mr Phillips was sincere, I do not doubt, but that he had any
  intimate knowledge of the life of the young girls who fill our
  factories and our shops, I do not for a moment believe. ... The
  conclusion of the story is merely laughable. That a woman so sodden
  with vice, so soaked with whisky and at last with opium, should escape
  all its physical penalties, and, without previous apprenticeship,
  become, almost in a day, a famous actress, contradicts every human
  experience.” J. T. Gerould

       — =Bellman= 22:385 Ap 7 ‘17 650w

  “Based on uncompromising fact, stamped with an individuality that was
  in itself a hallmark of distinction, and illumined by an almost
  incomparable art, this story is invested with a significance that
  makes it a thing apart. ... Susan Lenox is more than a novel: it has a
  social, human and economic significance that lifts it to the high
  places.” I: F. Marcosson

       + =Bookm= 45:26 Mr ‘17 4300w

  “Despite the attempts to prejudge Mr Phillips’s posthumous novel by
  frantic claims as to its high moral purpose and sincerity, it seems
  impossible for any unbiased reader of fiction to view it otherwise
  than as an extremely offensive addition to the literature of
  pornography. ... For Susan Lenox to have remained the acme of physical
  perfection after undergoing the horrors of the life that she
  deliberately sought and endured is impossible. Mr Phillips’s story may
  be realism, but it is certainly not reality.” E. F. E.

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 3 ‘17 500w

  “There is only one deadly charge to make against this story—it is an
  epic of feminine courage that required for its plausibility a
  consistent exaggeration of the difficulties of women in industry and a
  humorlessly romantic view of prostitution. ... Yet apart from these
  preposterous exaggerations, natural to a man who had no comedy, Susan
  Lenox is a story that moved and impressed this reader deeply. ... It
  is the great fortune of David Graham Phillips, if the enhancement of
  one’s memory is to be called fortunate, that the one big book he left
  unpublished was probably the best thing he ever did.” F. H.

         =New Repub= 10:167 Mr 10 ‘17 1700w

  “He is not merely less selective than Flaubert; he is positively less
  selective than Arnold Bennett. It is precisely because he tells us so
  much about everybody that might equally be true of anybody else that
  his narrative is never intense and sometimes exceedingly dull.”

       — =N Y Sun= Ap 8 ‘17 580w

  “It would have been much better for Mr Phillips’s reputation and the
  repute of American letters if it had never been published. ... It is
  false at its core. ... Susan Lenox is dragged through all the grime
  and the abominations of the underworld. Mr Phillips spares neither her
  nor the reader any of its revolting filth.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:62 F 25 ‘17 900w

  “For Susan had neither social consciousness nor social conscience. ...
  We are told briefly in the last two chapters that Susan succeeds as an
  actress. A man dies and leaves her his money and an interest in his
  plays. She uses the money to produce the plays and becomes a
  well-known star. Without the money and the influence of the dead man’s
  name, Susan would have been nothing. She lacked two essentials to
  success—a conscious and sustained purpose and a capacity for hard
  work.” M. K. Reely

       — =Pub W= 91:588 F 17 ‘17 1000w

  “A novel that will excite diverse opinions, but it is sincere, and its
  frank pictures of degradation are informed with ethical purpose—which
  is not often the case in such stories.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 25 ‘17 550w


=PHILLPOTTS, EDEN.= Banks of Colne (the nursery). *$1.50 (1½c) Macmillan
17-13955

  This is the fourth of Mr Phillpotts’ series of novels of British
  industry. A big nursery on the bank of the Colne gives the story its
  background, and there is some description also of the local oyster
  fisheries. Men and women more or less connected with these two
  industries are the characters of the story. They form a loosely-knit
  group, and so far as the story has plot, it concerns Peter Mistley, a
  landscape gardener at the gardens, and Aveline Brown, the woman he
  marries shortly after she has come to the town a stranger. Aveline was
  not free to marry, but this she does not tell Peter. Her attitude
  toward marriage is much the same as that of the two wandering
  vagabonds, William and Emma. She takes what is offered her of
  happiness and pays the price when the time comes without cringing. The
  war is in progress at the time, and more than one man of the story is
  claimed by it; Peter with the rest.

  “Not one of Mr Phillpotts’ best works.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:28 O ‘17

  “It contains one rather interesting character, the vagabond brother of
  the rich nurseryman and mayor of Colchester, though he, like his grave
  brother, is a platitudinarian. The style is that of one who has not
  merely swallowed the dictionary, but also bolted an encyclopædia.”

     – + =Ath= p363 Jl ‘17 140w

  “‘The banks of Colne’ has not the atmosphere of its predecessors.
  There exists here no such close relation between the people and the
  soil, between their lives and their labors, as was to be found in
  ‘Brunel’s tower,’ in ‘Old Delabole’ or in ‘The green alleys.’ ... We
  do not mean thereby to imply that it is not a vital, a significant, a
  commanding piece of fiction. It is all these, for it is by Mr
  Phillpotts’s hand. ... Were all its other elements negligible, and
  they are not, we might read ‘The banks of Colne’ for joy of its
  style.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 6 ‘17 1650w

  “As always, the women are alive and never stupid, however unmoral they
  may be.”

         =Ind= 91:72 Jl 14 ‘17 370w

  “We used to accept him, perhaps, as a chronicler of ‘real life,’ an
  interpreter of character in the concrete. He is, rather, a teller of
  tales and a commentator upon human nature.”

         =Nation= 105:69 Jl 19 ‘17 430w

  “A novel of maturity and even tone.”

       + =New Repub= 12:198 S 15 ‘17 400w

  “To us the book is the greatest piece of work Mr Phillpotts has yet
  written. ... Books like this will help America to understand the
  England of today in a way difficult to overestimate for its value to
  both nations.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:213 Je 3 ‘17 770w

       + =Outlook= 116:488 Jl 25 ‘17 110w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 550w

  “The pacifist Quaker-woman and the young men who enlist are treated
  with equal sympathy. All through the eventful and moving story, which
  looks at love from many angles and gives (or rather, perhaps,
  carefully makes) room for thoughts of many minds on many topics,
  nothing is condemned but lack of sincerity and lack of faith.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p296 Je 21 ‘17 600w


=PHILLPOTTS, EDEN.= Plain song, 1914-1916. *$1.25 Macmillan 821 (Eng ed
A17-1560)

  “Through the thought of the poems—there are thirty-eight in the
  volume—two threads run: the first is abhorrence of what the German
  government has done, coupled with great pity, charity, a willingness
  to forgive, a scorn of being revenged upon, the German people; the
  second is the purpose of democracy in the world.”—N Y Times

  “Mr Phillpotts has given us the war—one phase, and another, and still
  more—in living words.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:371 S 30 ‘17 820w

  “The title of this book is the least successful part of it. We can
  imagine nothing less plain and nothing more unlike song than the poems
  it contains. They are war pieces garbed in rich, luxuriant
  phraseology, in which Mr Phillpotts appears less as the poet than the
  publicist and the preacher, hymning in sonorous lines the praises of
  the navy, the New army, France, and so on, and scourging the crimes of
  Germany, and the folly of the pacifists with trenchant rhetoric.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p311 Je 28 ‘17 70w


=PHOUTRIDES, ARISTIDES EVANGELUS.= Lights at dawn. *$1.25 Stratford co.
811 17-14981

  Dr Phoutrides is an instructor in Greek and Latin at Harvard
  university. “The greater number of the poems were written before the
  present war. But in those written since, the war note is generally
  absent. The poem in ballad form, ‘Lord Kitchener,’ is one or the few
  exceptions.” (Boston Transcript) “The dawn from the west,” with which
  the volume opens, was written for the “Ancient and honorable artillery
  company of Massachusetts,” and published under the title of “America,
  the restorer.” The longest poem in the book “Ktaadn and Morning Dew,”
  tells the old Indian legend of our Mt. Katahdin.

  “Dr Phoutrides writes with a fine scholarliness. Yet the distinct
  classicism of his verse never halts spontaneity. Many forms are
  used—the lyric, however, principally. His use of blank verse is
  especially felicitous, the lines often possessing a veritable singing
  quality. ... This Hellenic poet exalts his own land and ours, above
  all that ‘freedom’ which crowns America.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 30 ‘17 720w

         =Ind= 91:135 Jl 28 ‘17 60w


=PICKERING, JOHN CLARK.= Engineering analysis of a mining share. *$1.50
McGraw 332.6 17-5157

  “The considerations entering into the analysis of a mining venture
  have been instructively set forth by Mr Pickering. There is little
  doubt that the great mass of ‘investors’ in mining stocks do not
  analyze their purchases very sharply. Mr Pickering, for the sake of
  simplicity, applies his analysis to a single share, stating that
  obviously the analysis by shares is equivalent to the analysis of the
  whole property. He endeavors to follow a line of investigation based
  on data available to the average share-holder. The discussion is
  confined to gold, copper, silver, lead and zinc.”—Engin N

       + =Engin N= 77:436 Mr 15 ‘17 130w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p18 Ap ‘17 190w

  “‘An interesting and a useful book. It would have been better if it
  had been edited carefully and if a wider reference had been made to
  other writings on the subject. ... His style is pleasant, his judgment
  appears sound, and his whole treatment of the subject is well worthy
  of an experienced engineer.’” T. A. R.

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:345 Ap ‘17 70w (Reprinted from Mining and
         Scientific Press p394 Mr 17 ‘17)

  “Based on twelve years’ experience in the United States, South
  America, Mexico, Canada and Africa.”

         =Pittsburgh= 22:522 Je ‘17 30w


=PIER, ARTHUR STANWOOD.= Jerry. il *$1.50 (1½c) Houghton 17-4313

  Jerry, the young Irish hero, is one of the workers for an independent
  steel company when the story opens. He is doing well, supporting his
  mother and looking forward to marriage with his sweetheart, Nora
  Scanlan. But the independent company is swallowed up by a big
  corporation. A change of policy brings on a strike and Jerry finds
  himself out of a job. He also loses his sweetheart, for Nora doesn’t
  take kindly to adversity. Jerry and his mother move to the big city,
  taking with them the three orphaned children of one of Jerry’s fellow
  strikers. With this family to support, Jerry finds a place on the
  police force, studies law and is admitted to the bar. In the meantime
  Kate, the oldest of the three children, is growing up and helping
  Jerry to forget the fickle Nora.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:356 My ‘17

  “To read Mr Pier’s story is the equivalent of seeing the scenes of a
  motion-picture film flash before one’s eyes. ... The substance of
  ‘Jerry’ is essentially that of the popular story for boys that Mr Pier
  is an adept at writing. In style, in character, in incident, it is
  reminiscent of this literary form, and we are certain that his latest
  novel will appeal readily to the many young readers who have taken
  pleasure in ‘Grannis of the fifth’ and ‘The new boy.’ If it helps them
  across the bridge between fiction for children and novels for
  grownups, it will serve an excellent purpose.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 7 ‘17 1050w

  “A good, satisfying fairy tale, set in a would-be modern city, with
  make believe graft and police scandals and murders. ... It is not
  rubbish, though it is a bit hard to say why it is not rubbish. It has
  all the earmarks of trash, and yet it fills the soul with a sort of
  self-satisfaction that all is well and that all will turn out fine.”
  W. M. Feigenbaum

     – + =N Y Call= p15 Ap 15 ‘17 330w

  “A pleasant story, quite interesting and with some cleverly drawn
  characters.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:69 F 25 ‘17 250w

  “The story, which is told with spirit, is an appeal to young men to
  enter the fight for purer public service.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 18 ‘17 200w


=PIER, ARTHUR STANWOOD.= Plattsburgers. il *$1.25 (3½c) Houghton
17-23757

  A story of the experiences of some college boys at Plattsburg. “Life
  at the Plattsburg camp is very different to-day from what it was
  during the period covered by this story. ... The training of the boys
  was less intensive than that to which the recruits at the later camps
  were subjected. Instead of being drilled in only the infantry branch
  of the service, they were given an opportunity to get at least a
  smattering of knowledge about other branches. This story is generally
  true to the conditions that existed at the first camp; in minor
  details the routine that it describes does not correspond with the
  routine followed at the subsequent camps.” (Preface) The story is
  reprinted from the Youth’s Companion.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:101 D ‘17

  “A clean-cut story of manly boys that will have much the same
  attraction for boys that the author’s St Timothy stories have.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 30w
         =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 40w

       + =Lit D= 55:60 D 8 ‘17 60w

       + =N Y Times= 22:389 O 7 ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:401 N ‘17 20w


=PINDAR, GEORGE N. and others.= Guide to the nature treasures of New
York city. il *75c Scribner 507 17-5881

  “A valuable and much needed manual entitled ‘Guide to the nature
  treasures of New York city’ has been prepared by George N. Pindar,
  Registrar of the American museum of natural history, with assistance
  from Mabel H. Pearson and G. Clyde Fisher. It deals with the
  collections in the American museum of natural history, the New York
  aquarium, The New York zoological park, the New York botanical garden,
  the Brooklyn museum, the Brooklyn botanical garden, and the Brooklyn
  children’s museum.”—N Y Times

         =N Y Times= 22:215 Je 3 ‘17 120w

         =Pratt= p13 Jl ‘17 30w


=PINKERTON, MRS KATHRENE SUTHERLAND (GEDNEY).= Woodcraft for women.
(Outing handbooks) *80c (2½c) Outing pub. 796 17-9692

  The author finds the explanation of the difference in the lure that
  the outdoors holds for men and women in their different childhood
  activities. Natural instincts suppressed in young girlhood demand
  stimulation and development in adult life if women are to know the
  joys of an active outdoor life. She says, “In this book there has been
  no endeavor to set forth a distinct type of woodsmanship for women
  only, but rather to show the possibilities of an art which can be made
  common to the sexes.” Contents: Woman and the out of doors; Woods
  clothing; Clothing—continued; Packs and accessories; Packing and
  portaging; Tents and camp making; Cooking utensils, fires, and foods;
  Cooking expedients; Paddling; Hunting and fishing; The winter woods;
  Going alone; Camp courtesy; The first time out; The spirit of the
  open.

  “Gives practical advice to women on all sorts of questions. Has a
  suggestive chapter on ‘camp courtesy.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:13 O ‘17

         =Cleveland= p126 N ‘17 80w


=PINTNER, RUDOLPH and PATERSON, DONALD GILDERSLEEVE.= Scale of
performance tests. il *$2 Appleton 136.7 17-16883

  A performance test is one which requires a response in action in place
  of the language response required in other intelligence tests. The
  work has grown directly out of attempts to grade deaf children, with
  whom the ordinary tests could not be used. The tests also meet the
  difficulty of dealing with foreign speaking children, since verbal
  directions are not essential. “The situation itself calls for some
  response without the necessity for any verbal instructions on the part
  of the examiner. ... Naturally in giving the test to hearing children
  the examiner will say something, but what he says is not essential for
  the understanding of the test.” (Introd.) The authors have assembled a
  group of tests of this kind and have attempted a standardization.

  “The detailed description of the tests and the norms given make
  available and usable tests of a type that are much needed. Many
  workers who meet the difficult question of determining the mentality
  of those whose command of language is slight will value this work. The
  only drawback lies in the fact that most of the tests here included
  are so simple as to be significant only for individuals quite young in
  age.” A. F. Bronner

     + — =Am J Soc= 23:546 Ja ‘18 350w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:74 D ‘17

         =Cleveland= p105 S ‘17 10w

  “The programme is admirably carried through, with abundance of
  well-arranged tables and sufficient interpretation to show the bearing
  of the results and warn against sources of error.”

       + =Dial= 63:399 O 25 ‘17 290w

         =El School J= 18:75 S ‘17 400w

  Reviewed by F. N. Freeman

       + =El School J= 18:148 O ‘17 120w

         =Int J Ethics= 28:284 Ja ‘18 130w

  “The authors have done a service that their colleagues in mental
  measurement will not estimate lightly.” F. L. Wells

       + =J Philos= 15:134 F 28 ‘18 1200w

  “A few of the tests partake of the nature of a puzzle and hence are
  tests, not of general intelligence, but of the peculiar ingenuity that
  works by intuition or a fortunate chance, rather than by reasoned
  judgment. However, the book will be of help in certain cases that are
  embarrassing to the tester. The volume includes some useful criticisms
  of the Binet scale, the Yerkes point scale and others.” Alexander
  Johnson

     + — =Survey= 39:260 D 1 ‘17 220w


=PIPER, EDWIN FORD.= Barbed wire, and other poems. $1.25 Midland press,
Moorhead, Minn. 811

  The awakening self-consciousness of the Middle West, which is just
  beginning to express itself in literature, has produced in Mr Piper a
  new poet and social historian. The first half of “Barbed wire, and
  other poems” is made up of short unconnected poems which, taken
  together, tell the story of the patient conquest of the prairie and
  interpret the spirit of the adventurous, land-hungry band that has
  traveled steadily westward across our country. The slow upbuilding of
  civilization in a new land is followed in such poems as “The movers,”
  “Dry bones,” “The sod house,” “The drought,” “The grasshoppers,” “The
  schoolmistress,” “Ten cents a bushel,” “Meanwhile,” “The church.” The
  second section of the book, “The neighborhood,” is given to longer
  narrative poems. Both groups are reprinted from the Midland: a
  magazine of the Middle West.

  “Precisely what Robert Frost has done for New England Mr Piper has
  done for the West from Illinois to the foothills of the Rocky
  mountains. ... One cannot with too much emphasis lay stress upon the
  social value of Mr Piper’s poems, for with a most vivid use of the
  imaginative faculty he weaves for us the fabric of a community rising
  on the bare breast of nature. ... ‘Barbed wire and other poems,’ is a
  very unusual collection, an important and distinctive contribution to
  American poetry.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 N 24 ‘17 1450w

  “He writes with vigor and freedom and the quality of this one book is
  such as to assure instant success. Nothing so eloquent on the
  personality of neighborhoods as ‘The banded’ has come from American
  poets. Yet he can forsake commonplace phraseology to write lines of
  pure flowing melody, and a lyric as delicate as ‘Moon worship.’”

       + =R of Rs= 57:106 Ja ‘18 180w


=PLATNER, JOHN WINTHROP=, and others. Religious history of New England.
(King’s chapel lectures 1914-1915, 1915-1916) *$2.50 Harvard univ. press
277.4 17-15979

  “A series of King’s chapel lectures delivered by eight men—each a
  representative of the communion about which he speaks. ... The story
  of the Congregationalists is told ... by Prof. John W. Platner.
  Geniality and humor enrich the pages in which Dean William W. Fenn
  describes the revolt of the Free Will Baptists and Christians against
  the standing order and the intellectual and academic counterpart of
  this popular movement which resulted in the founding of the Unitarian
  churches. Dean George Hodges tells with kindly humor and sound
  historical judgment the dramatic story of the implanting of the
  episcopate in hostile New England. The almost equally hostile
  reception met with by the Methodists ... is recounted in a painstaking
  and picturesque manner by Dr W. E. Huntington. President George E.
  Horr of the Newton theological institution treats the history of the
  Baptists. The position of the Quakers in New England is considered by
  Prof. Rufus M. Jones, that of the Universalists by Rev. John Coleman
  Adams, and that of the Swedenborgians by Dr William L. Worcester. The
  history of the Roman Catholics is omitted with regret, as it was
  impossible to secure for the lectures an historical narrative from a
  member of the Roman Catholic communion.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Profitable as these surveys are, it is to be regretted that certain
  questions concerning this group life have not been more distinctly
  considered. How, for example, did the Calvinist system begin to lose
  its hold even in the days of its ablest and most vigorous exposition?
  The remarkable growth of the Baptists at the end of the eighteenth
  century is mentioned without explanation. If one asks how
  denominational organization came out of autonomous congregations,
  satisfaction is again denied.” F. A. Christie

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:415 Ja ‘18 590w

       + =Ath= p519 O ‘17 300w

  “The title of the volume indeed is hardly justified by its contents,
  for it contains denominational history only and not the general
  religious history of New England, except for the earliest days when
  there was nothing but Congregationalism there. Having filed this
  caveat it is only right to say that the limited purpose of the series
  is admirably fulfilled. The treatment of the several denominations,
  being in each case by an adherent, is sympathetic but as a rule
  entirely fair, and only now and then unduly laudatory.”

       + =Nation= 105:100 Jl 26 ‘17 900w

  “So interwoven are religious and political ideas, and so large has
  been New England’s share in shaping American ideals, that this history
  is one of national interest. It is a history of the rise and progress
  of religious liberty. A single lapse from historical justice needs
  pointing out. The Quaker ranters persecuted by the Puritans were not,
  as any reader would infer, the same sort of people as the estimable
  Friends of to-day. The volume needs an index.”

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 170w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 1250w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p431 S 6 ‘17 100w

  “These lectures provide entertaining reading, and the English student
  will gain much knowledge set out with the warmth of feeling felt by
  men dealing with subjects dear to their hearts, but with no pride of
  sect or narrowness of outlook.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p486 O 11 ‘17 940w


=PLUCKNETT, FRANK.= Introduction to the theory and practice of boot and
shoe manufacture. (Longmans’ technical handicraft ser.) il *$2 Longmans
685 A16-1147

  “The author, who has had considerable experience in teaching this
  subject in England, states that the book is intended not only for
  technical students, but also for a ‘large circle of those who are
  interested in the rapid modern developments of the industry, and who
  have not the advantages of technical instruction.’ Scope is limited to
  the usual lines of work, omitting hand operations when the
  corresponding operations are more efficiently performed by a machine.
  There are chapters on the anatomy of the foot, foot measurements,
  lasts, and a comparison of English, French and American
  measurements.”—N Y P L New Tech Bks

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:141 S ‘16

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p22 N ‘16 90w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:519 Je ‘17

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ap ‘17 70w


=PLUMON, EUGÈNE.= Vade-mecum for the use of officers and interpreters in
the present campaign, new and rev ed *75c Brentano’s 448 17-16324

  “The result of actual work in interpreting for the British forces in
  France. Gives French words and phrases with their English equivalents
  arranged in the natural order of need under, marching order, from
  landing place to front, the field, the rear, tables of measures,
  money, distances, abbreviations, map signs, etc. Does not mark
  pronunciation.”—A L A Bkl

  “Useful to the man who has even a slight knowledge of French.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:9 O ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:323 S ‘17


=POE, EDGAR ALLAN.=[2] Poems; ed. by Killis Campbell. il $1.50 Ginn 811
17-24169

  “Professor Campbell is a member of the English faculty of the
  University of Texas and his study of Poe’s life and work has been long
  and enthusiastic. He has included in the volume all the poems
  collected by the poet himself or by his literary executor, Rufus S.
  Griswold, while in separate sections are several early poems and a
  dozen others of doubtful authenticity. The introductory section
  contains the story of Poe’s life, followed by a brief discussion of
  the text of his poems and of his habits of punctuation and
  revision. ... Through the body of the book Professor Campbell gives on
  each page the variant readings for the version he has selected. An
  important feature is afforded by the very copious notes filling nearly
  200 pages which explain every obscurity of the text and set forth the
  details of composition, probability of source, and other matters of
  interest.”—N Y Times

         =Boston Transcript= p7 O 27 ‘17 590w

  “One need not accept all Professor Campbell’s judgment’s in detail to
  pronounce this new edition of the ‘Poems’ the most important
  contribution to Poe scholarship that has appeared for some years.
  Perhaps the greatest merit of the book is its sobriety and sanity. In
  the section of ‘The canon of Poe’s poems’ Professor Campbell treats a
  subject on which he has made valuable researches; and his brief
  comments on the poems doubtfully attributed to Poe are admirable. The
  résumé of opinion in ‘The clash of the critics with respect to Poe’s
  poems,’ though brief, is excellently presented.”

       + =Dial= 63:595 D 6 ‘17 330w

  “A most scholarly edition. Perhaps the most notable feature of the
  book is the full use of references to the Poe literature, the volume
  of which will probably surprise even those who thought themselves well
  versed in this study.”

       + =Nation= 106:97 Ja 24 ‘18 250w

  “A careful and scholarly work showing diligent research and
  discrimination.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:567 D 16 ‘17 260w


=POLLAK, GUSTAV.= House of Hohenzollern and the Hapsburg monarchy. 50c
N.Y. Evening Post co., 20 Vesey st. 940.91 17-27945

  The seven articles contained in this book were published in the New
  York Nation and the New York Evening Post between the dates of March
  22 and July 5, 1917. To these papers the author has been a contributor
  since 1874 and 1881 respectively. He was born and educated in Vienna.
  Of the house of Hohenzollern he says: “Not all that can be said, and
  must justly be said, of Prussian leadership in the intellectual and
  material development of Germany can obscure the patent failure of the
  Hohenzollern dynasty.” Other titles are: Bismarck’s neglected
  policies; The vision of a Central Europe; Austria’s opportunity; The
  future of Bohemia; Hungary and the fall of Tisza; The Poles of
  Austria.

  “Trenchant and vigorously-written little book.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:156 F ‘18 50w

         =N Y Call= p14 S 16 ‘17 410w


=POLLARD, ALBERT FREDERICK.=[2] Commonwealth at war. *$2.25 (3c)
Longmans 940.91 18-1123

  Half of the papers that make up this book are reprinted from The Times
  [London] Literary Supplement. Others have appeared in the Contemporary
  Review, Yale Review, and other periodicals. Each article is dated so
  that the bearing of the time of writing on the views presented is made
  evident. The dates range from October, 1914 to August, 1917. The
  author is professor of English history in the University of London.
  Among other subjects he considers: Rumour and historical science in
  time of war; The length of wars; The freedom of the seas; The war and
  the British realms; British idealism and its cost in war; The growth
  of an imperial parliament: The temptation of peace; The prevention or
  war.

         =Spec= 120:41 Ja 12 ‘18 160w

  “One cannot logically complain that Prof. Pollard too often in this
  book writes as an advocate rather than a historian, for the articles
  were largely published to explain the British mind to itself; but it
  is fair to note that this attitude detracts from the permanent value
  of the book. The strongest chapter of the book is Prof. Pollard’s
  argument against a British imperial federation.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 7 ‘18 500w

  “There might have been more appearance of unity in the contents if
  certain pages had been omitted or altered; but, as Professor Pollard,
  enunciating a canon of literary probity apt to be forgotten, says, ‘to
  modify the record of expressed opinion in the light of later events
  indicates a dishonest assertion of consistency or prescience, and is
  one of the most insidious forms of historical forgery.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p590 D 6 ‘17 1000w


=POLLARD, HUGH B. C.=[2] Story of Ypres. il *75c (5c) McBride 940.91
17-19406

  “There is no name connected with the European war that will live
  longer in men’s minds than that of Ypres,” writes the author in
  beginning his story. He describes the two battles, illustrating his
  account with sketch maps. The pictures are by Thomas Derrick.

  “The author graphically describes the flight of the population on both
  occasions, the latter being a terribly lurid picture, its horror
  increased by the then new German device of gas fumes.”

       + =Ind= 90:472 Je 9 ‘17 120w

  “The condition of the famous cloth hall after each bombardment is well
  pictured in the pen and ink drawings of Thomas Derrick.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 23 ‘17 150w


=POLLOCK, FRANK LILLIE.= Northern diamonds. il *$1.25 (2c) Houghton
17-24854

  This story, which appeared in the Youth’s Companion as a serial and
  its sequel, recounts the adventures of three Canadian boys on two
  trips into the north in search of diamonds. The first trip, taken in
  winter on skates and snow shoes, is successful. The boys find what
  they are in search of—a little sack of precious stones reported to be
  hidden in a deserted cabin. The stones prove to be of inferior
  value—but they are diamonds for all that, and the next journey is
  taken in hope of finding the source. This trip has a different, tho
  not a wholly disappointing, outcome.

  “An exciting, well told adventure story for boys and girls about
  twelve or thirteen.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:173 F ‘18

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

         =Bookm= 46:498 D ‘17 40w

         =N Y Times= 22:565 D 16 ‘17 50w


=POLLOCK, FRANK LILLIE.= Wilderness honey. il *$1.25 (2c) Century
17-24398

  A story for boys and girls. Alice, Bob and Carl Harman are three young
  Canadians dependent on their own resources. The general store that has
  been the family source of income for three generations no longer pays
  and the young people are faced with the necessity of selling out.
  Alice has already had some experience with bee keeping, and, hearing
  of a large apiary for sale in the northern part of the province, they
  decide to stake their all on this venture. The story of their plucky
  and successful fight against such enemies as timber wolves, bears, and
  an ill-natured squatter follows. The story was published in the
  Youth’s Companion.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:137 Ja ‘18

         =Ind= 92:449 D 1 ‘17 40w

  “Excellent pictures are drawn of life in the wilderness, and of the
  methods of bee culture.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 130w


=POLLOCK, HESTER MCLEAN.= Our Minnesota; a history for children. il
*$1.60 Dutton 977.6 17-11001

  “After a brief survey of the beautiful land itself, a study of its
  copper-colored ‘first inhabitants,’ and of their memorials existing
  today, Miss Pollock tells how the English gained the land by
  exploration, colonization, war, purchase from the French and treaties
  with the Indians. Then follow the story of the explorers, French,
  English and Italian; Radisson and Grosvilliers, Du Luth and Father
  Hennepin, La Salle, Carver, Long, Beltrami and Nicollet. ...
  Transportation, education, mines, minerals, landmarks and famous men
  are in turn briefly studied.”—Boston Transcript

  “The account of the development of its vast natural resources forms a
  marvelous record of which not only all Minnesotans but all Americans
  should be proud.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 270w

  “The book is somewhat marred for the reviewer by the author’s naïve
  assumption that all the acts of the early pioneers were virtuous, and
  that the Indian was cruel and crafty in opposing the seizure of his
  land. Although the growth of industries is dwelt upon, no mention, as
  far as could be found, was made of the passing of the wonderful
  resources of the state, its virgin timber and its mines, into the
  hands of the few. On the whole, however, the book is an interesting
  and faithful presentation of the life story of Minnesota.” P. L.
  Benjamin

     + — =Survey= 38:370 Jl 28 ‘17 370w


=POOLE, ERNEST.= His family. *$1.50 (1½c) Macmillan 17-13623

  A deep sense of the continuity of life, as it is handed on from
  generation to generation, pervades this thoughtful novel. Roger Gale,
  close on to sixty years old, living in the New York house that has
  been his home since his early marriage, tries to understand the new
  and bewildering currents of modern life as they are reflected in his
  three daughters. These three represent distinct types. Edith is the
  domestic and maternal woman, fiercely absorbed in her children.
  Deborah is the active woman, spending herself on social movements.
  Laura is the modern woman of society, living life gladly, throwing
  away old conventions and breaking into new paths, without fear and
  without regret. In each of them Roger sees his own life repeated. Each
  of the three has something of himself. It is the second daughter,
  Deborah, who is nearest to her father’s heart. With her passion for
  mothering the world at war with her instinct for personal motherhood,
  she is the most interesting study in this worth while book.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:451 Jl ‘17

  “The one story of this month, beyond doubt, is ‘His family.’” H. W.
  Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:532 Jl ‘17 800w

  “The most striking and appealing feature of the story is its absolute
  sincerity and plausibility. ... If English or French readers, or
  readers of any other nation, wish to gain an accurate knowledge of
  life as it is lived in an American family and an American community,
  they need only read Mr Poole’s novel.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 1550w

  “Roger is not a sufficiently vivid personality to carry the burden of
  the book, and this defect will prevent it from making a permanent
  impression.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:540 Jl ‘17 250w

  “Roger Gale is the finest old father of a family since Silas Lapham,
  of whom in many ways he reminds me. And the resemblance, or, if the
  resemblance is not as close as I think, the recollection is a
  compliment to Mr Poole. For Mr Howells is a master in the portrayal of
  elderly men.” J: Macy

     + — =Dial= 63:113 Ag 16 ‘17 480w

  “The book is bigger than the ordinary novel, more far-reaching in its
  meaning, more deeply rooted in human experiences.”

       + =Lit D= 55:34 Ag 18 ‘17 290w

  “We find it happily difficult to put in the familiar measured terms
  our impression of such a book as this. In its mass, its solidity, its
  noble and simple contour, it rises like a shining peak above the high,
  and flat, plateaus of our ‘average workmanship.’”

       + =Nation= 104:680 Je 7 ‘17 1300w

  “If Mr Poole were primarily an artist, writing a novel for the sake of
  giving such emotion as a work of art can convey, his insistence would
  not be nearly so great on his specific idea of the family. But the
  thing that seems to lead Mr Poole to write a novel is the same thing
  that led Zola to write novels—the desire to illustrate a large
  group-idea by the processes of fiction. It is really the way of the
  scientist as against the way of the artist. ... There is no ultimate
  recompense for the solemn theme that runs through ‘His family.’
  Beginning with its pernicious enunciation on page 6, it comes back on
  pages 18, 25, 45, 85, 95, 118, 123, 149, 161, 196, 236, 268, 286, and
  heaven knows in how many other places—the theme that people live on in
  their children’s lives.” F. H.

         =New Repub= 11:164 Je 9 ‘17 1450w

  “A book full of truth, power and beauty.” Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p15 Je 24 ‘17 670w

  “Told simply and sincerely, with careful craftsmanship, this book is
  worthy of the best traditions in American fiction. It touches on many
  vital problems of our modern life, but the problems are never
  emphasized at the expense of character.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:194 My 20 ‘17 1050w

  “This book is chiefly to be prized as a picture of Mr Poole’s own
  soul. ... It rewards the best that one can bring to it. ... It has
  spiritual penetration and latitude and elevation. It is filled
  throughout with a deep and intimate consciousness of the reality of
  other souls.” Lawrence Gilman

       + =No Am= 205:943 Je ‘17 1500w

  “A novel of admirable poise and of quiet but deep-lying social
  import.”

       + =Outlook= 116:304 Je 20 ‘17 200w

  “Appeared in Everybody’s Magazine, v. 35-36, Sept. 1916-May 1917.”

         =Pittsburgh= 22:510 Je ‘17 70w

       + =R of Rs= 56:102 Jl ‘17 270w

  “Compared with ‘The harbor,’ ‘His family’ is analytical in even
  greater degree. It is not unjust to say that the second novel does not
  grip as did the first. It is perhaps more polished, and Mr Poole
  undoubtedly reveals a more pronounced grasp of the technique of the
  novel; but it lacks something of the enthusiasm, the vividness and the
  freshness of discovery which made ‘The harbor’ the immediate success
  it was. This is not to say, however, that ‘His family’ is not one of
  the notable novels of the season.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 1150w


=POOLEY, ANDREW MELVILLE.= Japan at the cross roads. *$3.50 (2½c) Dodd
952 (Eng ed 17-27871)

  First hand facts about Japan brought together to delineate the real
  state of affairs in Japan and to indicate the forces which are at work
  moulding public opinion and the directions in which they are leading.
  Politics, finance, social conditions and religion are the interests
  that chiefly occupy the writer’s attention. “Mr Pooley pays tribute to
  the rapid progress Japan has made, and to the vigor and energy of her
  statesmanship, but he does not disguise his belief that radical
  improvement must be effected before Japan can claim of right a
  position as a first-class power. ... Mr Pooley’s discussion of Japan’s
  foreign relations, particularly those with the United States, will do
  much to clear up a lot of misinformation about this matter which
  exists in America.” (Publishers’ note)

  “The cumulative effect of all the criticism in the book is
  considerable; and, even assuming that some of the shadows in Mr
  Pooley’s picture are as dark as he paints them, we doubt whether the
  present is the best time to draw up so unflattering an account, and so
  sweeping an indictment, of our allies.”

     – + =Ath= p682 D ‘17 250w

  “The author sums up the Japanese in a manner which clearly points out
  their weak as well as their strong characteristics.” H. S. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 19 ‘17 800w

  “The book would gain somewhat if the author conceded more frequent
  summaries of his facts and more emphatic statements of his
  conclusions; these the reader must carefully elicit for himself. So
  comprehensive a study should have an index appended. But these minor
  faults are insignificant in Mr Pooley’s illuminating achievement.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:10 Ja 13 ‘18 610w

  “His chapters on ‘Social conditions,’ and on Japanese methods in Korea
  and Formosa, deserve attention. He shows how the war has benefited
  Japanese industry.”

       + =Spec= 119:774 D 29 ‘17 150w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p543 N 8 ‘17 60w


=POORE, IDA MARGARET (GRAVES) lady.= Admiral’s wife in the making,
1860-1903. *$3 Dutton (Eng ed 17-20978)

  “Lady Poore has written a very charming book on her girlhood and early
  married life, completing the autobiography which she began at the end,
  so to say, in her ‘Recollections of an admiral’s wife.’ The daughter
  of Dr Graves, Bishop of Limerick, she spent a happy youth in Dublin,
  Limerick, and County Kerry, with less happy intervals at an English
  school. She married in 1885, soon after Commander Poore had won great
  distinction by his work in the Nile expedition. ... As the wife of a
  naval officer with modest means, Lady Poore seems to have enjoyed life
  heartily in Bermuda, Halifax, Jamaica, Malta, Alexandria, and other
  stations whither her husband was sent, as well as in France and Italy
  for periods of unemployment.”—Spec

  “A sense of humour and an element of delightful frankness are two
  factors helping to make Lady Poore’s book very pleasant reading.”

       + =Ath= p256 My ‘17 90w

  “The spirit not only of a very gracious and plucky British gentlewoman
  infuses it, but the spirit of Britain itself.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 1 ‘17 650w

  “A few of these memoirs, a blessed few, are well worth reading,
  because their authors can write and ought to write. Among this last
  select class is Lady Poore.”

       + =Sat R= 123:343 Ap 14 ‘17 1850w

       + =Spec= 118:493 Ap 28 ‘17 240w

  “This is a jolly book. It reads like the letter of an intimate friend
  who has snatched a spare moment to tell you the many things she has
  seen to interest her in her travels, because you are sure to
  understand the point of it all without expecting her to labour it.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p162 Ap 5 ‘17 1050w


=POORMAN, ALFRED PETER.= Applied mechanics. il *$2 McGraw 620.1 17-17214

  “A knowledge of general physics and of the calculus is assumed for the
  study of this undergraduate text-book, which aims to develop basic
  principles in a way which the average student can easily follow. Two
  unusual features are claimed: (1), the extended use of the graphic
  method; (2), the large number of illustrative examples which have been
  solved in detail. Numerous practical problems with answers are also
  given. The author is associate professor of applied mechanics in
  Purdue university.”—N Y P L New Tech Bks

  “The book is a fine example of effective, interest-arousing
  presentation. Instead of dealing with abstract principles, the strong
  psychological appeal of a single engineering problem is used. Some of
  the principles in which many graduates are especially weak have been
  given exceptionally clear and satisfactory treatment. The
  typographical work, the drawings and reproductions are also distinctly
  superior to previous standards.” J. P. J. Williams

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:131 Jl 19 ‘17 380w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p13 Jl ‘17 80w


=PORTER, ARTHUR KINGSLEY.= Lombard architecture. 4v v 1-3 ea *$12, v 4
*$15; set *$50 Yale univ. press 723 (17-9830)

  Professor Porter describes his book as “a definite synthetic analysis
  of Lombard architecture.” Volume 1 traces its growth from its
  Byzantine beginnings in the sixth century to the end of the twelfth
  century. “More than half of this volume is given to the discussion of
  ornament and the arts accessory to architecture.” “Part 4 of volume 1
  is given to iconography. Volumes 2 and 3 take up in detail the study
  of the multitudes of edifices which, often hidden away in remote
  villages and cities, have been up to now scarcely even a name and
  which, nevertheless, preserve precious remains, full of interest to
  the student of religion, of architecture and of other arts. These
  volumes are printed in a smaller type and are extraordinarily rich in
  legendary and historic lore.” (Boston Transcript) The fourth volume
  consists of a series of 244 plates with from two to ten half-tones
  each. The bibliography gives an idea of the author’s wide reading.
  “Only 750 copies are printed from type.”

  “For the architect these superb volumes will be of the utmost
  importance; the general reader will find in them an enormous amount of
  information presented in a clear and fascinating style. The portfolio
  of illustrations, many of them from pictures taken with the magical
  telephotographic lens, will appeal to anyone who delights in rare
  views. The typography is faultless.” N. H. D.

     + + =Boston Transcript= p7 My 29 ‘17 1000w

  “The amount of careful erudition, of often eloquent description, of
  sound judgment and accurate criticism is bewildering. The translations
  of justifying text in Latin and Italian must in themselves have taken
  months of labor; the searching out of authorities and the balancing of
  contrary views, resulting frequently in the rectification of dates and
  the discovery of unknown or wholly forgotten artists and architects,
  the knowledge of history involved and the breadth of architectural
  comprehension make the work of first importance.” N. H. D.

     + + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 230w

  “Of that most important element in Lombard ornament, the grotesque,
  the author writes with convincing common sense.”

     + + =N Y Times= 22:270 Jl 22 ‘17 950w

  “The most careful, scholarly, and learned work dealing with
  architecture that has thus far been produced in America. Only one
  criticism is possible, and that is on the presentation of the plates;
  these, which consist of a great mass of folio sheets, unbound, each
  containing four or five illustrations, bear numbers only, and the task
  of sorting them out as one reads, identifying them from a key sheet,
  and getting them back again into the box, is almost insuperable.” R.
  A. Cram

   + + — =Yale R= n s 7:420 Ja ‘18 3350w


=PORTER, MRS ELEANOR (HODGMAN) (ELEANOR STUART, pseud.).= Road to
understanding. il *$1.40 (1c) Houghton 17-9250

  The story opens with an unfortunate marriage. Helen and Burke were
  alike in one thing only; each was self-centered and spoiled. Attracted
  by Helen’s pretty face, Burke defied his father and gave up his home
  to marry her. Trouble followed shortly and a separation. Left with her
  baby daughter, Helen begins to think things out. She decides to make
  of herself the kind of woman Burke could respect. She is very ignorant
  but she is willing to learn. With the help of good friends, she does
  so. Many years pass and Betty, the daughter, is a grownup girl before
  the three are again brought together.

  “Will be popular, specially with inexperienced girls.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:406 Je ‘17

  “One or two situations which are well worked out make the book worth
  reading.”

       + =Ath= p471 S ‘17 60w

  “The book is without doubt decidedly different from Mrs Porter’s
  previous work. ... As an artist Mrs Porter shows both more power and
  more restraint in this new novel.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 28 ‘17 700w

  “Of the light and shade and depth of true characterization she has
  hardly an inkling. She has that plentiful lack of humour which seems
  almost an asset with the best-buying public. ... We note that this
  preposterous story stands second to ‘Mr Britling’ upon the bestselling
  lists for April. It would be interesting to know how many readers of
  either can have endured the other.”

       — =Nation= 104:736 Je 21 ‘17 300w

  “We find ourselves always objecting to the situations as more than
  improbable and to the characters as not consistent with themselves.
  Besides, life is short, and the road Mrs Porter’s heroine elects is
  unconscionably long. Still, the book is so well written and holds so
  much of truth that it must be ranked among the really good stories of
  the day, well worth the reading.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:186 My 13 ‘17 500w

  “Take it from a pessimist, this new book by Eleanor H. Porter will be
  among the six best sellers within a month and it really is much more
  of a book than ‘Pollyanna.’” Robert Lynd

         =Pub W= 91:974 Mr 17 ‘17 250w

         =Spec= 119:221 S 1 ‘17 20w


=PORTER, GENE (STRATTON) (MRS CHARLES DARWIN PORTER).= Friends in
feathers. il *$3.50 (4c) Doubleday 598.2 17-15687

  A revised and enlarged edition of “What I have done with birds,”
  published in 1907. It is primarily a book on bird photography. It is
  illustrated with the author’s own remarkable photographs and the text
  is made up largely of an account of experiences while obtaining these
  pictures.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:67 N ‘17

  “The illustrations, showing various birds never before photographed in
  their natural positions are uniquely fascinating.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 17 ‘17 260w

  “One of the most fascinating of bird books.”

       + =Ind= 91:110 Jl 21 ‘17 50w

  “Though a student of bird-life would look in vain for any new
  observations of importance, and though the natural history to which
  the author frequently appeals is of a very thin quality, her work,
  nevertheless, is worthy of high praise for the excellence of many of
  her photographic studies; only a field student who is an adept with
  the camera can appreciate how fine some of these pictures really are.”

     + — =Nation= 105:317 S 20 ‘17 490w

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 80w


=PORTER, HAROLD EVERETT (HOLWORTHY HALL, pseud.).= Dormie one, and other
golf stories. il *$1.35 (2c) Century 17-24401

  A collection of golf stories, reprinted from Collier’s, Every Week,
  and other magazines. Contents: Alibi; If you don’t mind my telling
  you; The runner-up; The luck of the devil; The last round; If it
  interferes with business; Dormie one; “Consolation.” In the preface
  which he adds gratuitously the author touches on the difficulties
  involved in writing stories about golf. “I know of only one other
  sport,” he says, “which offers fewer possibilities for a red-blooded
  story of nerve and skill and stamina—and that’s billiards!”

  “A collection of excellent stories. ... But good as they all are, well
  written technically, and often bubbling over with shrewd dialogue, we
  rather doubt their holding readers to whom the revered game of golf is
  an unknown quantity.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 O 24 ‘17 250w

  “This collection of tales, none of which is impossible (if indeed any
  is improbable), will be the joy of many a golfer second only to
  playing the game.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 O 27 ‘17 300w

  “The eight tales comprise a sort of anthology of the links; in deft
  plot construction, in sharp character sketching in every attribute
  that goes to the making of a good story, the author has succeeded
  admirably.” C. W.

       + =N Y Call= p18 D 15 ‘17 100w

  “You need not be necessarily a golfer to appreciate the stories, for
  though a golf course is invariably employed as a setting, there is in
  each story a perspicacious study of human temperaments, together with
  a literary finish, which gives it a value entirely independent of its
  eighteen-hole environment.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:400 O 14 ‘17 750w

  “They are so rich in human nature that the subject-matter is merely
  incidental.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 350w


=PORTER, HAROLD EVERETT (HOLWORTHY HALL, pseud.).= What he least
expected. il *$1.50 (2c) Bobbs 17-8466

  The hero is a young Harvard man who at the beginning of the story is
  down on his luck. The European war has just closed the New York Stock
  exchange and deprived him of his job. He answers a “help wanted”
  advertisement and after a rigid cross examination finds himself
  engaged at a high salary. What his work is to be remains a mystery. He
  is sent to one of the best hotels and told to wait further orders. The
  action begins almost immediately, following his introduction to two
  attractive girls. New York and Bermuda are the scenes of the story.
  “Help wanted,” was its title during serial publication in Collier’s.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:356 My ‘17

  “Mr Hall’s books and stories belong to the harmless group. ... The
  public is said to like love stories, real or false, hackneyed or
  original, and Mr Hall believes we must feed the public what we think
  it wants.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 300w

  “Who says that grown-up Americans don’t believe in fairies?... Mr
  Holworthy Hall turns raw mythologic ore into the pure gold of that
  kind of installment novel which keeps its readers infantile.”

         =New Repub= 11:142 Je 2 ‘17 180w

  “The liveliest kind of a lively yarn, with all sorts of entanglements
  and cross-purposes that thoroughly accomplish their manifest
  destiny—which is to bewilder and interest the reader.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:218 Je 3 ‘17 200w

  “The author always makes his characters talk easily and amusingly, but
  his plot is too complicated and unreal to rivet attention.”

     – + =Outlook= 115:668 Ap 11 ‘17 20w

  “A love story which has married a detective story. The union has its
  points.” M. A. Hopkins

         =Pub W= 91:972 Mr 17 ‘17 250w

  “A light story which moves at a rapid pace, with a liberal sprinkling
  of colloquial slang and humor.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p19 Mr 25 ‘17 150w


=POUND, EZRA LOOMIS.=[2] Lustra of Ezra Pound, with earlier poems.
*$1.50 Knopf 811 17-31072

  The first book of Mr Pound’s poetry to appear in this country since
  1912. The first group contains about eighty short pieces whose themes
  range from “The tea shop” to “The study in aesthetics.” In the second
  group are translations from the Chinese of Rihaku, from the notes of
  the late Ernest Fenollosa, and the decipherings of the Professors Mori
  and Ariga. The last thirty are poems published before 1911.

  “No one challenges the poet’s right to draw his materials from any
  source that he chooses. No one cares how far into the past he
  penetrates, so that he brings back something of beauty and value,
  something that he has revitalized and made his own. But when from
  these excursions into the antique he brings back chiefly what is
  inconsequent and often repulsive, one sees no particular reason for
  going so far afield for material.” J. B. Rittenhouse

     – + =Bookm= 46:577 Ja ‘18 450w

  “His poems are too complicated for hasty judgment. One must read—and
  read again a week later. They are ironical, jeering and intolerant,
  they are lonely, contemplative, searching, carefully formed and firmly
  living. Perhaps you hate Ezra Pound. He says many of us have the
  manner. Perhaps you like him, but whatever else you do you cannot
  ignore him. He has an individual fashion of saying things and he is
  without fear.” K. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p5 D 6 ‘16 700w

  “Its range and variety are its most outstanding quality and its chief
  defect. The volume seems a catch-all for Pound’s slightest utterance.
  What makes this lust for print the more puzzling is the fact that Mr
  Pound has not only a critical but a selective gift. But ‘Lustra’ is
  something more than a haphazard and too inclusive collection; it is
  the record of a retreat, a gradual withdrawal from life.” L:
  Untermeyer

     – + =Dial= 63:634 D 20 ‘17 980w

  “In this book we have no signs of those graceful medieval verses that
  Mr Pound used to write so perfectly. Sometimes Mr Pound is so modern
  as to be incomprehensible.”

       — =Lit D= 55:38 D 15 ‘17 140w

         =Lit D= 55:51 D 29 ‘17 630w

  “‘Lustra’ does more than force the painful conclusion of
  deterioration: it reveals the actual process, the poems written before
  1911 being separated from those composed later. Rarely is it possible
  to see in one book so sharp a line of cleavage, so complete a
  superiority of periods as Mr Pound lets us witness by his act of
  separation. Before 1911 life still stung Mr Pound.” M. T.

     – + =New Repub= 13:352 Ja 19 ‘18 1300w

  “The ‘Lustra’ is bookish; instead of revealing further heights or
  depths of existence, it bears the echoes of dead literature.
  Personally, I would rather have one of Arturo Giovanetti’s things,
  such as ‘The last nickel’ or ‘The walker,’ or one of Carl Sandburg’s
  Chicago poems than the whole volume called ‘Lustra,’ in spite of the
  embroidered gorgeousness of the Cathay translations, contained
  therein.” G: W. Cronyn

     – + =N Y Call= p18 D 20 ‘17 750w

  “The only healthy pages are entitled ‘Poems published before 1911.’”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 25 ‘18 300w

  “The form which Mr Pound has chosen gives brevity, and that is enough.
  The richness of content compensates for its looseness. But in Mr
  Pound’s original poems there is seldom this compensation. It is poetry
  made too easy. As you read it you feel as if you had tried to sneeze
  and failed. There is a titillation, the promise of something about to
  happen, but at the end nothing has happened, not even a well-turned
  verse. That is the fault we have to find with most of these poems; too
  little happens in them. When Mr Pound is serious there is promise in
  his seriousness.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p545 N 16 ‘16 900w


=POWELL, CHILTON LATHAM.= English domestic relations, 1487-1653.
(Studies in English and comparative literature) *$1.50 (2½c) Columbia
univ. press 392 17-11684

  The author calls this “a study of matrimony and family life in theory
  and practice as revealed by the literature, law, and history of the
  period,” and states in his preface that he has tried “to make the
  field of investigation within these limits as all-inclusive as
  possible.” “Four appendixes are added to the book, in the first of
  which a complete account is given for the first time of the divorce
  suit of Henry VIII, and in the second, a new conception of the married
  life of Milton and the cause of his famous divorce tracts is
  advanced.” (Am Hist R) There are fourteen pages of bibliography.

  “Perhaps the most valuable portions of Dr Powell’s book are the
  chapters describing and analyzing the domestic conduct book of the
  sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the contemporary attitudes
  towards woman and the wider ranges of domestic literature. ... Such a
  careful and detailed study as Dr Powell’s should be sincerely welcomed
  by every student of the family. The fresh material it assembles and
  the painstaking way in which it traces the evolution of new ideas
  concerning marriage and divorce make it a genuine contribution to the
  growing body of literature on this subject.” Willystine Goodsell

       + =Am Hist R= 23:142 O ‘17 500w

  “The author’s interests—and his style—are not literary, but the book
  will be useful to the student of literature as well as of social
  history.”

       + =Ath= p353 Jl ‘17 80w

         =Cleveland= p10 Ja ‘18 120w

  “The performance is scarcely equal to the promise. The second half of
  the volume deals with the literature of the subject and, though the
  author discusses a number of important but little-known writings, this
  part of the work is scarcely more than a critical bibliography. The
  important part of the study comprises the first three chapters. ...
  The field was harvested a dozen years ago with some thoroughness by
  Professor Howard in his monumental ‘History of matrimonial
  institutions’; but Dr Powell has discovered several unused literary
  sources and has been able to correct Professor Howard’s conclusions on
  various important points.”

     + — =Dial= 63:351 O 11 ‘17 370w

  “It is included in the ‘Studies in English and comparative
  literature,’ but is of wider scope than most books so classified.
  There is a good deal here that will be of interest to the student of
  ‘kulturgeschichte’ or to the sociologist, for the author has very
  carefully assembled a good body of information respecting marriage and
  the family, from sources not ordinarily open to the non-expert in the
  period’s literature.”

       + =Nation= 105:375 O 4 ‘17 600w

  “Dr Powell’s method, if it yields little to our actual knowledge,
  certainly gives a useful summary of contemporary opinion.”

       + =Spec= 119:sup547 N 17 ‘17 850w


=POWELL, E. ALEXANDER.= Brothers in arms. *50c (7c) Houghton 940.91
17-17404

  A tribute to the French, written on the occasion of the visit of the
  French mission to America by a well-known war correspondent who has
  marched with the armies of France, and who wishes those of his
  country-people who have not had the same opportunity as he of knowing
  the French “to understand what manner of men are these our brothers in
  arms.” He does for our relations with France what Captain Ian Hay
  Beith has done for our relations with England in “Getting together.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:90 D ‘17

  “The first twenty pages is fulsome in style. The writer is so eager to
  excel in description that his work becomes monotonous and devoid of
  interest. Beginning with the twenty-ninth page comes a change. Mr
  Powell swings into his best stride.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 8 ‘17 260w

         =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 50w

         =Ind= 91:352 S 1 ‘17 60w

  “Might suitably serve as a memorial of the visit of Marshall Joffre
  and the other French commissioners to this country. Moreover, it is
  worth reading on its own account.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:214 Ag ‘17 50w


=POWELL, E. ALEXANDER.= Italy at war and the Allies in the west. il
*$1.50 (3c) Scribner 940.91 17-14525

  This is the author’s third book on the war. “Fighting in Flanders” and
  “Vive la France” have preceded it. The first four chapters are devoted
  to Italy’s part. He says, “It is no exaggeration to say that not one
  American in a thousand has any adequate conception of what Italy is
  fighting for, nor any appreciation of the splendid part she is playing
  in the war.” Contents: The way to the war; Why Italy went to war;
  Fighting on the roof of Europe; The road to Trieste; With the Russians
  in Champagne; “They shall not pass”; “That contemptible little army”;
  With the Belgians on the Yser.

  “More descriptive of actual fighting conditions and less of a
  political interpretation than Bainville (Booklist 13:442 Jl ‘17).”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:446 Jl ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 270w

         =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 90w

  “He has a talent for collecting interesting scraps of information and
  adapting technical details of artillery or aviation to the
  comprehension of the uninitiated.”

       + =Dial= 63:212 S 13 ‘17 270w

  “If his visits to the Champagne, Verdun and the Somme front are less
  impressive, it is because what is comprized within the title of his
  book, ‘Italy at war,’ today is the best first hand record of that war
  region.”

       + =Ind= 91:475 S 22 ‘17 150w

  “The chapter on ‘Why Italy went to war’ is of particular value. For
  that question is perhaps the one of the whole war concerning which
  Americans in general have felt most uncertainty and about which they
  had the least information.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:266 Jl 15 ‘17 180w

         =Pratt= p42 O ‘17 30w


=POWELL, OLA.= Successful canning and preserving. (Lippincott’s home
manuals) il *$2 Lippincott 664 17-26659

  This is a “practical handbook for schools, clubs and home use,” by an
  assistant in the home demonstration work of the United States
  Department of agriculture. It covers the history of scientific
  canning, the equipment, canning in tin and glass, the description of
  the processes necessary for canning fruits and vegetables, with
  suggestions for their use in the diet, the drying of fruits,
  vegetables and herbs, the preservation of meat, canning club
  organization, the business side of canning, teaching canning and
  related activities. Questions and bibliographies are given at the ends
  of the chapters. The appendix gives an “Address list of state
  institutions from which agricultural extension work under the
  Smith-Lever act is directed” and an “Address list of firms furnishing
  supplies for canning and preserving.”

  “The most complete manual to date, for a textbook or for scientific
  canning at home on a small or large scale.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:11 O ‘17

  “The title does not do full justice to the extent and value of the
  information contained.”

       + =Cath World= 106:268 N ‘17 180w

       + =Ind= 92:344 N 17 ‘17 50w

  “With the help of many illustrations, proper preparation and equipment
  are presented. The unfortunate part of it is that few can afford such
  a complete and adequate paraphernalia as is here advised.”

     + — =Lit D= 56:39 Ja 26 ‘18 130w

  “The author has done a remarkably thorough bit of work.” M. G. S.

       + =N Y Call= p15 N 4 ‘17 210w

  “The directions for each method are carefully given and the recipes
  varied.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 4 ‘17 360w


=POWELL, MRS SOPHIA HILL (HULSIZER).= Children’s library; a dynamic
factor in education; with an introd. by J: Cotton Dana. *$1.75 (2c)
Wilson, H. W. 028.5 17-13388

  A discussion of the relation of the children’s library to the school
  from the modern educational point of view. As the author points out in
  her first chapter, the attitude of modern educators toward the place
  of books in the child’s early school life has undergone a change. She
  writes of: The place of books in education; Early libraries for
  children; The elementary-school library; The high-school library; The
  library resources of country children; Public library relations with
  public schools; The public library an integral part of the public
  education; The children’s room; The children’s librarian and her
  training; Aids to library work with children; Book selection; Some
  social aspects of library work with children. An extensive
  bibliography follows. John Cotton Dana in his introduction says, “A
  careful study of the relations of children’s reading to teachers,
  parents and librarians has long been needed, and this is precisely
  what Mrs Powell has given us.” The author is a graduate of the Pratt
  institute library school, and her library experience has included work
  in Cleveland and New York.

  “This book is unexpectedly interesting and thought-provoking. An
  example of the critical method of the author is her discussion of the
  much-lauded children’s room, which, it appears upon careful
  examination, neither meets an otherwise unmet educational need nor
  does it properly meet a real recreational need. The last chapter, on
  ‘Some social aspects of library work with children,’ suggests a number
  of possibilities for the library in a wider social field.” F. F.
  Bernard

       + =Am J Soc= 23:276 S ‘17 720w

  “Sensible, interesting, compact and inclusive—should be used in every
  library.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:422 Jl ‘17

  “A book which all school administrators and those charged with
  instruction in English ought to read.”

       + =English Journal= 6:513 S ‘17 50w

  “A study of its sane pages will help both teacher and librarian, and
  thereby, incidentally, the children.”

       + =Ind= 90:518 Je 16 ‘17 60w

  “Some well-considered and apparently sound conclusions concerning the
  place of reading in education and the use of cultural books in
  elementary schools are set forth.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:338 S 9 ‘17 60w

  “A revelation of the development and the possibilities of this
  educational agency. All who are interested in the possibilities of the
  library will find the entire book very helpful and the bibliographies
  highly useful.”

       + =Religious Education= 12:395 O ‘17 80w

         =St Louis= 15:385 N ‘17 10w

  “This book deserves the attention of all who direct the study of
  English in either elementary or high school.”

       + =School and Society= 5:711 Je 16 ‘17 90w

  “The book under review will do much to unify the work of the public
  school and the public library. The book is certain to find an
  important place in all libraries as a general-reference book and as a
  text in library-training schools.”

       + =School R= 25:533 S ‘17 180w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Je 29 ‘17 220w


=POWERS, HARRY HUNTINGTON.=[2] America among the nations. *$1.50 (2c)
Macmillan 327.73 18-669

  In some sense a sequel to the work published a year ago, “The things
  men fight for.” The aim of the writer is to furnish an historic
  interpretation of our national character and our relation to other
  nations; to supply the “family point of view” from which America was
  obliged to look forth when she entered the war and so became a member
  of the European family. The first part of the text is devoted to a
  consideration of “America at home,” including among the chapters: The
  first Americans, The struggle for the Pacific; Despoiling the Latin,
  The break with tradition, The aftermath of Panama, and
  Pan-Americanism; the second part treats “America among the world
  powers,” with chapters on: The great powers, The Mongolian menace,
  Greater Japan, The unfeared Powers, The background of Europe, Germany,
  the storm centre, The storm area, The greatest empire, The great
  fellowship, and Forecast.


=PRATT, HENRY SHERRING.= Manual of the common invertebrate animals,
exclusive of insects. il *$3.50 McClurg 592 16-17348

  “As the author remarks in his preface, there has been no lack of
  manuals relating to the common insects, but hitherto a person wishing
  to identify animals of the other invertebrate groups has had to go to
  technical papers and treatises which, in many cases, have been
  inaccessible to all except specialists. Professor Pratt’s manual
  follows that of Leunis’s ‘Zoologie,’ a standard German work dealing
  with the animals of Europe; it is intended especially, for use in the
  eastern and central portions of the United States and Canada.”—N Y
  Times

  “Needed only in large, school, and college libraries.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:338 My ‘17

  “It will be a useful book for the reference shelves of biological
  laboratories, for general libraries, and for students of zoology. It
  does not replace special monographs.”

       + =Dial= 62:109 F 8 ‘17 200w

  “There is a good glossary and a thorough index. The thousand-odd
  illustrations are all familiar line cuts of textbook style, well
  chosen and clearly reproduced. The faults are almost altogether those
  due to the condensation necessary to the limits of a single volume.
  The uncoated paper does away with extra weight. The most serious lack
  is the absence of all common names, except in the case of groups.”

     + — =Nation= 105:275 S 6 ‘17 430w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:154 O ‘16

         =N Y Times= 22:8 Ja 7 ‘17 80w

  “The author is professor of biology in Haverford college.”

         =St Louis= 15:12 Ja ‘17 9w


=PREEV, ZINOVY N.= Russian revolution and Who’s who in Russia. *2s Bale
& Danielsson, London 947 (Eng ed 17-20023)

  “This little book, by the editor of the Twentieth Century Russian and
  Anglo-Russian Review, contains first an account of the revolution
  (19pp.) and then a ‘Who’s who,’ not confined to persons but containing
  explanations of phrases like ‘Constitutional Democrats,’
  ‘Intelligentsia,’ ‘Zemstvo union,’ &c.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “The brief biographies, beginning with the Tsaritsa, speak freely
  about the persons they deal with.”

         =Sat R= 123:604 Je 30 ‘17 230w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p239 My 17 ‘17 40w


=PREVITÉ ORTON, CHARLES WILLIAM.= Outlines of medieval history. maps
*$2.75 (2c) Putnam 940 (Eng ed 17-21845)

  A history of medieval Europe, embracing the period from 895 to 1492
  A.D. The author says, “In the choice of events to narrate I have been
  guided by their far-off results, rather than by their immediate éclat
  in their own time, and have tried to indicate how in the middle ages
  were accomplished the growth of modern man and the life and attitude
  to life of modern times.” Contents: The barbarian migrations; The
  Eastern empire and the Saracens; The fusion of races in western
  Europe; The development of feudalism; The papal monarchy; The East and
  the crusades; The fall of the Western empire and of the papal
  theocracy; France and England; The councils and the Italian
  renaissance; The East and the Turks; The despotic monarchies.

  “Mr Orton fairly accomplishes his aim of indicating ‘how in the middle
  ages were accomplished the growth of modern man and the life and
  attitude to life of modern times.’ As this involves some loss of local
  colour and a style which, though clear and well balanced, is usually a
  little bare and restrained, the book will probably be more appreciated
  by older than younger students, but this must be accounted a defect of
  its quality.” J. T.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:616 O ‘17 280w

  “This is a lucid and scholarly sketch of a vast subject which is by no
  means remote from practical politics, though it nominally closed with
  the fifteenth century. ... Mr Previté Orton has to deal with masses of
  facts and dates, but he writes very well and is full of ideas, so that
  his book is easy to read.”

       + =Spec= 118:441 Ap 14 ‘17 200w

  “The want of a satisfactory guide to medieval history has long been
  felt. Hallam’s work is no longer adequate, and more recent books
  dealing with the subject do not cover the whole ground. Students have
  been thrown back, therefore, on treatises having a wider range, such
  as Lavisse and Rambaud’s ‘Histoire générale,’ of which medieval
  history forms only a part. Mr Previté Orton’s ‘Outlines’ satisfies the
  conditions desired by giving within reasonable limits a comprehensive
  survey of the middle ages as a distinct historical subject. The
  success he has achieved in this difficult task is very great.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p137 Mr 22 ‘17 1150w


=PRICE, CHARLES MATLACK.= Practical book of architecture. il *$6
Lippincott 720 16-24966

  “The purpose of this handsomely made and compactly written volume is
  simple but very much worth while; to state in untechnical language the
  sources of our present day architecture. Not so much regarding the
  details of classic architecture as it appears in the Parthenon or the
  mysteries of Gothic architecture woven into a fabric like Notre Dame;
  but rather a clear statement of just what distinguishes classic and
  Gothic architecture respectively, how much of its ‘indicia’ are
  practically applicable to the needs of to-day. ... Most interesting
  perhaps are the two chapters on Native American architecture and on
  such special topics as ‘l’art nouveau’ and ‘modernist’ architecture,
  as well as the office building, modern hotel and railroad
  terminal. ... The second part of the book, ‘A practical guide to
  building,’ discusses sanely such questions for the prospective house
  builder as the selection of site, style and materials to be used, the
  choice of and relations with the architect, comparative costs of
  various styles and materials, and plans and interior details.”—Pub W

  “A popular treatment of interest to those intending to build, to
  beginners in the study of architecture, and to the general reader.
  Covers the subject fully as an art and a science and yet may be
  understood by the layman. ... Has excellent illustrations, many of
  modern work.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:254 Mr ‘17

  “The illustrations, 255 in number, are particularly good.”

       + =Ath= p197 Ap ‘17 90w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 3 ‘17 300w

       + =Cath World= 105:836 S ‘17 210w

  “The reader gets unusual delight from the illustrations, which are
  mainly chosen from well-known buildings in big cities, thereby making
  them more vital and understandable.”

       + =Lit D= 54:770 Mr 17 ‘17 300w

       + =N Y Times= 22:58 F 18 ‘17 200w

  “Like Mr Talbot Hamlin’s book, which also appears at this time, Mr
  Price’s makes its own individual, educative appeal. Surely the man in
  the street as well as the trained critic should find much of practical
  value in such volumes.”

       + =Outlook= 115:116 Ja 17 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:120 F ‘17 50w

  “There has been no book on architecture before just like this one.”
  Fremont Rider

       + =Pub W= 91:211 Ja 20 ‘17 350w

         =R of Rs= 55:218 F ‘17 90w

  “Mr Price gives a great deal of extremely sound instruction and
  advice, and that with convincing point and clarity. Admirable theories
  or principles are eloquently argued or presented; but the unworthy,
  and even second-rate, examples with which he sometimes seeks to
  illustrate them, tend rather to damp one’s latent enthusiasm and to
  check one’s conversion. His English ‘typicals’ are for the most part
  peculiarly ill chosen and unfortunate.”

     + — =Spec= 119:14 Jl 7 ‘17 1700w

  “A work which aims at and renders a service popular rather than
  professional. ... The public has been slow to realize that
  architecture is the one art from which it can not escape even if it
  desires to do so.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 19 ‘16 450w


=PRICE, JULIUS MENDES.= Six months on the Italian front. il *$3.50
Dutton 940.91 (Eng ed War17-88)

  “Mr Price’s book deals with the operations of the Italian army from
  the Stelvio to the Adriatic (1915-1916). Mr Price is the wellknown war
  artist correspondent of the Illustrated London News, and he had the
  privilege of following the Italian armies all along their five hundred
  miles long front in the period which might be rightly called
  preparatory in their hard war.” (Sat R) “He was actually present at
  the capture of Gorizia and Monfalcone in 1916.” (The Times [London]
  Lit Sup)

       + =Ath= p260 My ‘17 50w

  “This book is wholly reportorial and free of discussions of
  international questions. ... The illustrations can be endorsed without
  quibbling as among the best of the war yet published, when the giving
  of true ensemble is considered. They are rich in minutely faithful
  sketches of the equipment of the Italian army, and frequently achieve
  marked excellence in their graphic portrayals of the troops of Cadorna
  scaling precipitous Alpine cliffs.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 170w

  “It is journalistic and impressionistic in the bad sense. It is a pity
  to waste such excellent yellowish white thick paper and fine type,
  when the few really great books of the war are huddled into their
  cramped volumes with myopic print.”

       — =New Repub= 13:224 D 22 ‘17 250w

  “He makes particularly vivid, with both pencil and pen, the
  difficulties of warfare in the Alpine region.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:382 O 7 ‘17 500w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:763 N ‘17 40w

  “A very graphic and faithful description and comment.”

       + =Sat R= 123:413 My 5 ‘17 850w

  “Mr Price is primarily an artist, not a journalist. ... He is quite
  frank about his qualifications as a war correspondent: an amateur at
  the game, knowing no Italian, not even enough to venture on an Italian
  phrase in his book without stumbling. ... There are a certain amount
  of tirades in this book against Austrian ‘frightfulness.’ ... This
  continual search for evidences of what we have learnt to call ‘kultur’
  results often in the digging up of facts which, judged by any
  reasonable standard of a man accustomed to the necessities of modern
  warfare, are no more evidences of ‘frightfulness’ than our similar
  methods are evidences of excessive ‘humanity.’”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p188 Ap 19 ‘17 450w


=PRIESTLEY, HERBERT INGRAM.= José de Gálvez, visitor-general of New
Spain (1765-1771). il $3 (2c) Univ. of Cal. 906 A16-1488

  José de Gálvez, visitor-general of New Spain, 1765-1771, and later
  appointed minister of the Indies, was, says the author “with the
  possible exception of the second Revillagigedo, the most able
  representative of the Spanish crown in New Spain during the eighteenth
  century. He certainly was the most competent minister of the Indies
  during the Bourbon régime.” This study is limited to his years of
  service as visitor-general, since it was in this period, the author
  points out, that he gained the practical knowledge that shaped his
  later policy as minister. The author is assistant curator of the
  Bancroft library, University of California, and the work is issued as
  one of the University of California publications in history.

  “The author has made ample use of new sources from the archives of
  Spain and Mexico and, in addition, has made available in English much
  material already published in Spanish. The volume shows a vast amount
  of painstaking labor and is readable and interesting throughout. It is
  a valuable contribution to the study of Spanish colonial
  institutions.” R. R. Hill

       + =Am Hist R= 23:199 O ‘17 550w

  “Mr Priestley’s description of the Spanish colonial system under
  Charles III is admirably complete.” G. B. H.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:459 Jl ‘17 230w

  “A sketch map that might profitably have contained more names, the
  instructions to Gálvez, a full bibliography, and adequate index
  complete the volume, and with ample footnotes make it a desirable
  contribution to Latin-American institutional history.”

       + =Nation= 105:490 N 1 ‘17 410w

  “The book should have permanent value as a record of Mexican history
  and Spanish colonial administration.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 20 ‘17 500w


=PRIESTMANN, EDMUND YERBURY.= With a B.-P. scout in Gallipoli; a record
of the Belton bulldogs; with a foreword by Sir Robert Baden-Powell. 2d
ed il *$1.75 Dutton 940.91 17-21842

  “This is a collection of letters written home by a scoutmaster serving
  as a subaltern who was killed in action in November, 1915. There is
  much humor in the book, and the author’s quick perception of the
  grotesque is evidenced by many of his drawings, which are reproduced
  in connection with the text.”—R of Rs

       + =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 60w

       + =Ind= 90:473 Je 9 ‘17 140w

  “A bubbling sense of humor characterizes them throughout and he has
  always a keen eye for interesting little incidents, whether comic,
  pathetic, or tragic, and a clever pen in describing them.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:382 O 7 ‘17 180w

       + =R of Rs= 55:668 Je ‘17 50w

  “The little sketches of life on the bloody peninsula are written with
  a sureness that commends the book to a far larger audience than the
  intimate one for which they were intended.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 110w

  “The racy, cheery letters home which make up this volume show the Boy
  scout ideal at its best. ... The book is full of clever humorous
  little drawings by Lieutenant Priestmann himself.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p527 N 2 ‘16 110w


=PRINCE, JANE.= Letters to a young housekeeper. *$1.35 (6c) Houghton 640
17-4601

  Housekeeping ways and means are here discussed in the form of letters.
  The letters are in fact essays on the following subjects: Economy in
  the household; The budget; Servants; Maid of all work; Weekly
  cleaning; Family meals; Duties of servants; Behind the scenes at a
  dinner.

  “The chapters on duties of servants and serving a dinner are specially
  good.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:435 Jl ‘17

  “Fortunate those women into whose possession this book comes. For not
  only is its friendly advice practical. Its spirit is that which lifts
  housekeeping into that highest of all womanly avocations—homemaking.
  There is about it, moreover, a delicious sense of personality.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p13 Ap 7 ‘17 300w

       + =Cleveland= p70 My ‘17 50w

  “This little volume contains facts—general and particular—on household
  economy and the household budget. ... and finally the vexing matter of
  a ‘dinner party.’ It is a readable and valuable book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:191 My 13 ‘17 180w

  “Even to the woman who has no servants and who may be disposed to
  class the book as useless in her circumstances, there is more or less
  of helpful suggestion in matters like table arrangements, how to sweep
  a room properly, etc. Type and binding add to the attractiveness and
  value.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 13 ‘17 200w

  “The directions are detailed but explicit. A book which can be
  unreservedly recommended for every library.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:155 My ‘17 70w


=PRINGLE-PATTISON, ANDREW SETH (ANDREW SETH).= Idea of God in the light
of recent philosophy. *$3.50 Oxford 201 17-24221

  This volume is based upon the Gifford lectures delivered in the
  University of Aberdeen in 1912 and 1913. The author is professor of
  logic and metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. In philosophy he
  is an idealist. “The twenty lectures are grouped in two series.
  Beginning with commentaries upon Hume’s ‘Dialogues concerning natural
  religion,’ the author proceeds to discuss critically and fully the
  views of Kant, Ritschl, Locke, Berkeley, Comte, Spencer, William
  James, Bergson, Prof. Bosanquet, and many others.” (Ath) “Most of the
  chief points of metaphysics and ethics come under review.” (The Times
  [London] Lit Sup) Dr Pringle-Pattison concludes, among other things,
  that “for a metaphysic which has emancipated itself from physical
  categories, the ultimate conception of God is not that of a
  pre-existent creator but, as it is for religion, that of the eternal
  redeemer of the world.”

         =Ath= p246 My ‘17 180w

  “In the use he makes of the principles of continuity of process and
  the emergence of real differences, in his insistence on the reality of
  appearances and his account of the finite individual in relation to
  the Absolute, in his treatment of the idea of creation and his
  elucidation of teleology as a cosmic principle, Professor
  Pringle-Pattison has made an illuminating advance in the study and
  discussion of his subject.” R. Latta

       + =Hibbert J= 16:153 O ‘17 4850w

  “The chief criticism upon Professor Pringle-Pattison’s work is rather
  the vagueness with which he almost invariably expounds his position.
  On the majority of the issues of contemporary philosophical
  controversy relevant to his subject it is well-nigh impossible to say
  exactly what his position is. ... In spite of these shortcomings
  Professor Pringle-Pattison’s book will be of considerable value to all
  interested in the perennial problem of the Divine and the human.”

     + — =Nation= 105:457 O 25 ‘17 1000w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:139 S ‘17 100w

  “These lectures evince the new spirit gained by twentieth-century
  philosophy from biology.”

       + =Outlook= 117:576 D 5 ‘17 120w

  “An able philosophic exposition of the fundamental tenet of
  Christianity. ... We may draw attention to his sensible and—if we may
  use the word—manly treatment of the problem of evil.”

       + =Spec= 119:40 Jl 14 ‘17 120w

  “The reader will feel a deep delight in Prof. Pringle-Pattison’s
  ability to handle ideal clearly, in the breadth and eclecticism of his
  speculation, in his feeling for the realities of poetry, and in his
  determination to impart to philosophy a human and practical aspect as
  well as metaphysical consistency.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 1300w

  “Dr Pringle-Pattison’s volume will find readers in classes which in
  the so-called ages of faith would have turned away from it either
  because discussion of it seemed profanation or—what was more often the
  explanation of the mood of estrangement—because it was not for them a
  living, ever-present question. ... Each age desires its own
  ‘Théodicée,’ and ours is still unwritten. It will borrow, when it is
  composed, not a little from the pages of Dr Pringle-Pattison. ... We
  miss in this volume a certain unity of purpose. The author strays here
  and there according as the thought of the moment suggests. But, if too
  much a collection of episodes, the book is what it claims to be,
  constructive.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p184 Ap 19 ‘17 2250w


=PROTHERO, GEORGE WALTER.= German policy before the war. *$1 Dutton
327.43 (Eng ed 16-13631)

  “An address given before the Royal historical society, Jan. 21, 1915.
  It is concerned (1) with the ideas and principles, the ambitions and
  motives which have produced in Germany a state of mind favorable to
  war; (2) with the historical events and the economic conditions which
  have strengthened this tendency; and (3) with the course of
  international politics which rendered an armed conflict difficult to
  avoid.” Condensed from introductory note—Pittsburgh

  “Interesting but highly inconclusive is the author’s development of
  the militaristic theory of the state. ... In spite of its fairness of
  tone, the work bears the marks of special pleading, and is, as was
  perhaps inevitable, a partizan interpretation of history. ... The
  weakest point is the author’s failure to appreciate the German
  attitude toward the alliance with Austria.” R. H. Fife, jr.

     – + =Am Hist R= 22:200 O ‘16 320w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:261 Mr ‘17

     + — =Eng Hist R= 21:674 O ‘16 370w

  “The introductory chapter contains the best brief statement we have
  seen of the development of German philosophic thought and teaching
  into potent ideas which are believed to influence Germans at present.”

       + =Nation= 103:444 N 9 ‘16 1150w

         =N Y Times= 22:110 Mr 25 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 21:508 N ‘16 70w

  “Where changing circumstances and personalities in power count for so
  much, it is impossible to assert positively that this or that policy
  was dominant at all times, and probably Mr Prothero, to prove his
  case, lays too much emphasis on the consistency of German intentions.
  He might have expanded his brief remarks upon the social and financial
  conditions inside Germany, and we should have welcomed his fuller
  views on some other points; for instance, the effects of Italy’s
  Tripolitan war. But he has certainly given us a concise and most
  readable and informing chapter of absorbing European history.”

       + =Spec= 117:160 Ag 5 ‘16 880w

  “While the analysis as a whole is sound enough without being
  particularly new, it is open to weighty objection just at the points
  which seem most fatal to Mr Prothero’s ‘main thesis.’ That applies
  perhaps most of all to the treatment of the question of Morocco, and
  of Franco-German relations generally.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p243 My 25 ‘16 1100w


=PROUD, EMILY DOROTHEA.= Welfare work: employers’ experiments for
improving working conditions in factories: with a foreword by D:
Lloyd-George. *7s 6d Bell, London 331.8 (Eng ed 17-4011)

  “An ably written volume, dealing with means of preserving the health
  and promoting the happiness of workers in factories. ‘Welfare work’ is
  defined as consisting of ‘voluntary efforts on the part of employers
  to improve, within the existing industrial system, the conditions of
  employment in their own factories.’ Factory welfare departments and
  the duties of a welfare secretary are described.”—Ath

  “The treatment of the subject is practical and sympathetic. Especially
  interesting chapters are those dealing with the industrial
  environment, wages and hours, and incidental aids to welfare, such as
  the provision of baths, gymnasia, means of recreation, and the like.”

       + =Ath= p427 S ‘16 100w

  “The matter is well and methodically arranged, with copious foot notes
  containing extracts from both American and English authorities, and
  has an excellent index. There is, however, no bibliography. This would
  have been a valuable addition. ... Together with Mr Lloyd-George we
  warmly commend this book to employers, factory superintendents, and to
  all members of the general public interested in the future and well
  being of their respective countries.” G. K. S.

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:250 Ja ‘17 600w

  “Her book is by all odds the most complete and detailed exposition of
  the subject which has yet appeared.”

       + =Nation= 105:272 S 6 ‘17 210w

  “The author is an Australian of wide experience in factory
  investigation both in Australia and England. At present she is
  connected with the British ministry of munitions.”

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:8 Ja ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:345 Ap ‘17 30w

         =Pratt= p8 Jl ‘17 10w

  “Miss Proud is certainly moderate as a radical economist, dealing with
  things as they are, and trying to be a peacemaker in her chapters. But
  yet her radicalism shows itself, and takes her away from some
  questions of essential importance.”

     + — =Sat R= 122:229 S 2 ‘16 1350w

         =Spec= 117:556 N 4 ‘16 130w

  “The whole volume constitutes an exceedingly valuable contribution to
  a field where clarifying discussion is much needed.” H. R. Walter

         =Survey= 37:671 Mr 10 ‘17 550w

  “Her treatment of the subject is dispassionate and scientific without
  being cold or dry. The weakest point is the comparatively small range
  of observation which forms the basis of her study. It is confined to
  Australia, New Zealand, England, and Scotland. We congratulate Miss
  Proud on a pioneer book of high quality and real value.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p411 Ag 31 ‘16 1250w


=PRÜM, ÉMILE.= Pan-Germanism versus Christendom; the conversion of a
neutral; ed. and with comments by René Johannet. *$1 (3c) Doran 940.91
17-15439

  Part 1 of this volume is a reprint of the open letter by M. Émile
  Prüm, leader of the Catholic party of Luxembourg, to Herr Mathias
  Erzberger, member of the Reichstag and leader of the Catholic centre
  party of Germany. It was a protest against the invasion of Belgium and
  Luxembourg and was seized and prohibited in Germany. Part 2 is an
  account of The proceedings instituted against M. Prüm, and in an
  appendix there is a discussion of The evolution of the German Catholic
  centre.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 16 ‘17 300w

         =Cleveland= p85 Jl ‘17 80w

  “Its peculiar interest to-day comes from its account of the evolution
  of the Centre party and the light it throws on the Centrist leader.”

       + =Nation= 105:179 Ag 16 ‘17 550w

  “We recommend it to the perusal of any still unconvinced pro-German if
  his mind is open to consider a plain narrative of those facts which
  have converted a former pro-German into a vigorous opponent of German
  imperialism and all its works.”

       + =Outlook= 116:198 My 30 ‘17 80w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p639 D 28 ‘16 190w


=PUBLIC AFFAIRS INFORMATION SERVICE.= Bulletin. $15 (service basis)
Wilson, H. W. (16-16611)

  This is the second annual cumulation of the bulletins of the Public
  affairs information service, described as “a cooperative clearing
  house of public affairs information.” The work of the service is
  outlined in the preface. It is “not merely an information collecting
  and disseminating agency. Its primary aim is to be of concrete
  assistance in minimizing the task of the busy librarian, professor,
  social worker, business man, head of department or bureau. The service
  carries out its activities by means of the weekly bulletins, the
  bi-monthly cumulations and the annual number. It acts as agent for the
  distribution of both free material and material with a cost, desired
  by the cooperators. It extends the privilege of borrowing from the
  collection and supplies typewritten material for copying purposes. The
  Service may be freely used as an information bureau.” The annual
  volume consists of an alphabetical arrangement under subject headings
  of all the material (books, pamphlets, reports, magazine articles,
  etc.) indexed during the year.


=PÜCKLER-MUSKAU, HERMANN LUDWIG HEINRICH, fürst von.= Hints on landscape
gardening; tr. by Bernhard Sickert and ed. by S: Parsons. il *$3.50 (8c)
Houghton 710 17-19173

  This volume, “which furnishes a natural sequence to ‘The art of
  landscape gardening,’ by Humphrey Repton [1907], is the second of a
  series of authoritative books to be brought out by the publishers,”
  says Mr John Nolen in his introductory note. In addition there is an
  introduction by the editor giving a sketch of Prince Pückler’s life
  and an estimate of the importance of his contributions to landscape
  art. The text itself consists of chapters on: The laying-out of a
  park; Size and extent; Enclosure; Grouping in general, and buildings;
  Parks and gardens; Concerning the laying-out of the lawns of parks,
  meadows, and gardens; Trees and shrubs and their grouping, and
  plantations in general; Roads and paths; Water; Islands; Rocks;
  Earthworks and esplanades; Maintenance; with a second part descriptive
  of Prince Pückler’s park in Muskau.

  “Somewhat discursive but sound advice on the laying out of parks and
  estates.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:157 F ‘18

  “In an admirable introduction, Mr Parsons gives many delightful
  extracts from Prince Pückler’s letters, showing what a romantic old
  idealist he was. The book itself is a treasure for anyone who loves
  nature. It ought to have a powerful influence here in America, where
  city planning (of which he was an early advocate) and the laying out
  of parks as well as of great private estates are destined to become
  more and more a feature of our civilization.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 15 ‘17 1300w

  “The book is unique. It is to be hoped that the series will be
  continued—and that without so long an interval as has passed between
  the appearance of the first two volumes.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:752 O 18 ‘17 220w

  “The author’s style, which has been closely followed by the
  translator, is poetic and original, and his method of treating the
  subject so near his heart removes it altogether from the region of dry
  and academic treatises.”

       + =Lit D= 55:40 N 17 ‘17 280w

  “The illustrations and maps are a notable feature of the volume.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:812 D ‘17 90w


=PURINTON, EDWARD EARLE.= Pétain, the prepared. il *50c (9c) Revell
17-26783

  The author has written a brief sketch of General Pétain, who commanded
  the French at Verdun. The point of his story is that when General
  Pétain’s opportunity came to him at the age of sixty, he was ready to
  meet it, and the lesson the author draws from the story is given a
  wide application to American life. There is a one-page foreword by
  Major-General Leonard Wood.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:40 N ‘17

  “A book that can be read in less than an hour, containing a message of
  strength and cheer for all the years ahead, is surely worth reading.
  Such a book Mr Purinton has given us.”

       + =Lit D= 55:53 D 1 ‘17 50w


=PUTNAM, GEORGE ROCKWELL.= Lighthouses and lightships of the United
States. il *$2 (3c) Houghton 656 17-13732

  “This book is planned to cover, in a general and rather non-technical
  way, a description of the lighthouses, especially in the United
  States, and a history of their development.” (Preface) The author has
  felt it a “pleasant obligation” to bring these facts together, and he
  has tried to include “enough of the personal deeds of the men and
  women who serve humanity in the lighthouses and on the lighthouse
  vessels to show the fine spirit which pervades them.” Among the
  chapters are: Boston light and the colonial lights; The lighthouses
  under the United States government; Lights in the approaches to New
  York; Lights of the Florida reefs and the gulf coast; Lights of the
  Pacific coast and Alaska; Lights of the Great Lakes and the rivers;
  Lightships and lighthouse tenders; The light-keepers. The book is well
  illustrated.

  “The lighthouse service may fairly be called a model of competent
  administration and scientific ingenuity in the general staff and of
  faithfulness, endurance, and helpfulness in the rank and file; and Mr
  Putnam’s exposition of its history, plant, equipment, operations, and
  personnel is also a model.”

       + =Am Hist R= 22:906 Jl ‘17 350w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:46 N ‘17

  “The author of this valuable, fascinating and authoritative book is
  the United States Commissioner of lighthouses and he has the last word
  (up to June 30, 1916) on a subject of vital importance.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 27 ‘17 1100w

         =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 40w

  “A story interesting to the engineer as a man and as a practitioner.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:563 S 20 ‘17 120w

       + =Ind= 91:75 Jl 14 ‘17 60w

       + =Lit D= 55:37 N 3 ‘17 290w

  “The book is written for the general reader, but one wonders whether
  the author would not have been well advised to assume in such readers
  the ability and willingness to penetrate a little deeper into the
  scientific phases of the subject, even at the expense of considerable
  mental effort. A glance at the new Encyclopædia Britannica article on
  lighthouses, and especially its illustrations, will suggest that the
  author might have greatly enhanced the value of this volume without
  taking it in any respect out of the mental reach of the great majority
  of those who were likely to read it.”

     + — =Nation= 105:406 O 11 ‘17 950w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p11 Jl ‘17 100w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:663 O ‘17 10w

  “While the great toil of the business machine necessary to maintain
  this work is not slighted, the romantic aspect of perpetual adventure
  with the sea fills this book with genuine thrills and recommends it to
  all classes of readers. The beautiful cuts of the lighthouses and
  life-saving stations past and present give vivid interest to this
  admirable record.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:331 S ‘17 250w

  “Particularly entertaining are the chapters which tell of the
  difficulties between our own independent colonial lighthouse keepers
  and the early national government, and the one which gives memoirs and
  annals of sundry keepers, both men and women.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 3 ‘17 320w


=PYLE, JOSEPH GILPIN.= Life of James J. Hill. 2v il *$5 Doubleday
17-15184

  “In the list of great railroad men whom this country has produced the
  name of James J. Hill will always stand as one of the greatest of them
  all. ... It is only a little more than a year since Mr Hill died, at
  the age of 78. ... Mr Pyle took up his task as biographer with the
  best equipment. For Mr Hill had chosen him some years before to write
  the story of his finished life, had turned over to him letters and
  diaries and other documents, and had talked much with him for the
  purpose of giving him a true picture of himself, his works, and his
  surrounding conditions in his early years. In a little prefatory note
  Mr Pyle says that the only instruction Mr Hill ever gave him
  concerning this prospective biography was this one sentence: ‘Make it
  plain and simple and true.’”—N Y Times

  “Without displaying many of them, Mr Pyle has had access to the
  letters and diaries of Mr Hill, and has freely used autobiographic
  dictations. Only Dr Oberholtzer’s ‘Jay Cooke’ gives financial history
  for the railroads with equal detail and accuracy. The point of view of
  Mr Pyle is disappointing. Instead of allowing his evidence to tell its
  own story, he lays down dicta.” F: L. Paxson

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:196 O ‘17 650w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:58 N ‘17

         =Dial= 63:217 S 13 ‘17 400w

  “Altogether this is a book that is thoroughly worth reading both as
  the life-story of a successful worker of a truly American type and
  also as an example of what can be accomplished by honesty, unremitting
  endeavor, and high ideals.”

       + =Lit D= 55:44 Ag 4 ‘17 920w

  “Mr Pyle has made a book that is worth while, so far as it goes. He
  has contrived to make a clear statement of many abstruse matters
  connected with the making of the Great Northern railway, and as a
  ‘source-book’ his biography will stand. And, upon reflection, it is
  only fair to admit that to put a man like ‘Jim Hill’ on paper is a
  task much easier to criticise than to perform. But—could there not
  have been a few more anecdotes, say, in the appendix?”

     + — =Nation= 105:344 S 27 ‘17 1400w

  “Like most authorized biographies, Mr Pyle’s work suffers somewhat
  from the fact that it is all eulogium. Nevertheless, its value as the
  life story of one of our great nation builders is high and its
  interest unceasing. Young men just starting upon their careers ought
  to find in its pages inspiration and guidance. For, however much James
  J. Hill won for himself by his lifetime of work, the service he
  rendered his country was beyond valuation.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:237 Je 24 ‘17 1800w

  “Excellent if sometimes a bit monotonously eulogistic biography,
  which, nevertheless, might well be in the hands of every young
  American.”

       + =Outlook= 116:521 Ag 1 ‘17 680w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:671 O ‘17 70w

  “Mr Pyle had a large subject and a wealth of material from which to
  select, and it probably seemed to him impossible to do justice to his
  theme in any smaller compass. Sometime, however, he should put this
  biography into about half the space at a popular price for popular
  consumption. It is well to have the larger work, although some parts
  of it seem needlessly long.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 1100w


=PYM, THOMAS WENTWORTH, and GORDON, GEOFFREY.= Papers from Picardy.
*$1.50 (3c) Houghton 940.91 (Eng ed War17-89)

  Two English chaplains discuss some of the moral and spiritual aspects
  of war. “The papers owe their title to the fact that they were
  written, for the most part, during the fighting on the Somme in the
  summer and autumn of 1916. They are, however, the result of experience
  gained not only there but in other parts of France, in Flanders, and
  in a soldiers’ hospital at home.” (Preface) In part 1, Rev. T. W. Pym
  writes of the following: Some considerations as to the varying effects
  of war on the individual; A commentary on the soldier’s attitude to
  war; A study in contrasts and in the influence of reaction;
  Discipline—and after? Something definite; Postscript: an epitome of
  war. In part 2, Rev. Geoffrey Gordon writes of: The chaplain’s
  dilemma; Some prisoners; Active service; Honour where honour is due;
  In a regimental aid post; What is truth? etc.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:55 N ‘17

         =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 80w

  “Part 1, by T. W. Pym, seems a more broad-minded, charitable, and
  human document than part 2, but even that looks life’s problems fairly
  in the face and acknowledges the inefficiency of the modern church to
  meet the present needs of men. In the chapter ‘Something definite,’ we
  have the strongest possible exposition of the fallacies that nurture
  dissipation of all kinds. ‘Papers from Picardy’ has a more universal
  appeal and meaning than most books of the kind.”

       + =Lit D= 56:36 Ja 26 ‘18 250w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:133 S ‘17 80w

  “Both authors are undeniably sincere and both have based their
  conclusions on facts that have come within their personal knowledge.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:214 Ag ‘17 80w




                                   Q


=QUICK, OLIVER CHASE.= Essays in orthodoxy. *$2 Macmillan 230 17-24306

  “The author of these essays is chaplain to the Archbishop of
  Canterbury.” (Int J Ethics) “His aim in these chapters discussing
  leading doctrines of the Christian faith is not primarily apologetic.
  His position is that what is needed is elucidation in the face of
  misunderstanding. His presentations of the orthodox doctrines—those of
  the atonement, of justification by faith, and of the Holy Spirit—are
  treated not as dogmas based on authority or on scriptural texts, but
  as reasonable and necessary solutions of the problems of life.”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

  “A book which has the two merits of steadiness and frankness in its
  Anglican outlook.” James Moffat

       + =Hibbert J= 15:677 Jl ‘17 150w

         =Int J Ethics= 27:543 Jl ‘17 130w

  “The chapters upon ‘The Holy Spirit as witness and sanctifier’ contain
  not a little good counsel upon practical problems of belief and
  conduct; and they are written with a freshness that makes their
  perusal a pleasure. In his discussion of some articles of the creed Mr
  Quick is, we think, less successful.”

     + — =Spec= 118:518 My 5 ‘17 1350w

  “As a whole the book is certainly a singular illustration of the right
  method of presenting orthodoxy to a reflecting mind under the
  influence of the disintegrating tendencies of the day.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p639 D 28 ‘16 230w

  “A book which is full of sound thought and always well expressed. ...
  These criticisms are offered just because the general argument of the
  book is so impressive, and is worked out with so much skill. Among the
  numerous theological discussions to which we have been invited lately
  this volume has a special claim to consideration.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p64 F 8 ‘17 1000w


=QUILLER-COUCH, SIR ARTHUR THOMAS.= Notes on Shakespeare’s workmanship.
*$2 Holt 822.3 17-14157

  The papers in this volume are revised from lectures delivered at the
  University of Cambridge. The author says: “They seek to discover, in
  some of Shakespeare’s plays, just what he was trying to do as a
  playwright. This has always seemed to me a sensible way of approaching
  him, and one worth reverting to from time to time. For it is no
  disparagement to the erudition and scholarship that have so piously
  been heaped about Shakespeare to say that we shall sometimes find it
  salutary to disengage our minds from it all, and recollect that the
  poet was a playwright.” The plays studied in the first group include
  Macbeth, Midsummer-night’s dream, Merchant of Venice, As you like it,
  and Hamlet. A second group comprises plays representative of
  Shakespeare’s later workmanship and includes Pericles, King Henry
  VIII, Cymbeline, The winter’s tale and The tempest.

  “A delightful addition to Shakespeare criticism.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:15 O ‘17

  “Multitudes of books upon Shakespeare have been written, but we doubt
  if any of them contain as much undiluted common sense as is compressed
  by Sir Arthur into these pages.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 3 ‘17 1500w

  “It would not serve as a text for use with high school or college
  students but would enrich their knowledge and add to their interest if
  used as a supplement to their studies, and would delight any
  Shakespeare lover.”

       + =Cleveland= p105 S ‘17 90w

  “The chapters are pleasantly written observations which retain the
  conversational flavor of their original form.”

       + =Dial= 63:468 N 8 ‘17 70w

  “In the author’s discussion of these many-sided masterpieces there is,
  of course, a great deal that will provoke dissent. The assertion that
  there is no mystery in Hamlet’s character is a hard saying to digest.
  We prefer, however, to direct the attention of our readers to the fine
  critical analysis of ‘Macbeth.’”

     + — =Nation= 105:458 O 25 ‘17 1150w

  “Endowed as he is with ripe scholarship, as well as discriminating
  knowledge of a subject in which he has specialized for many years, Sir
  Arthur is quite sure of himself when he tells us how the poet wrote
  his plays.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:318 Ag 26 ‘17 170w


=QUIN, MALCOLM.= Problem of human peace; studied from the standpoint of
a scientific catholicism. *$1 Dutton 172.4 17-22690

  “The author decides that a human peace can only come about through the
  operation of the modern mind. By an adequate scientific study of war
  this mind will realise that both causes and effects are hostile to
  that perfection in Christ which is the spiritual aim of Christendom.
  After a rapid elimination of alternatives Catholicism, which is said
  to include all that is best in eastern as well as western thought, is
  selected as the only antidote to the causes of war—a Catholicism,
  however, thoroughly overhauled by the modern mind, and then
  disseminated through the Roman organization. The peoples will thus be
  informed with the common national policy of perfection.”—Int J Ethics

         =Ind= 92:58 O 6 ‘17 60w

  “The insistence laid on the part that the church might play in
  relation to peace is valuable.” C. D. Burns

     + — =Int J Ethics= 27:540 Jl ‘17 180w

  “The book should be read by thoughtful students of religious and
  social movements as an indication of ‘modernism’ inside as well as
  outside the Roman church.” A. G. Spencer

       + =Survey= 39:201 N 24 ‘17 600w


=QUINN, ARTHUR HOBSON=, ed. Representative American plays. il *$2.75
Century 812 ‘17-4225

  “Twenty-five American plays, by the leading dramatists of the country,
  that show the development of the American drama from 1767 to the
  present time. Each play is prefaced by a short biographical sketch of
  the author, the cast of the first performance, and other interesting
  detail.” (R of Rs) “Opening with the first American tragedy, ‘The
  prince of Parthia’ (1767), and the first American comedy, ‘The
  contrast’ (1787), and including works of such early playwrights as
  William Dunlap, James Nelson Barker, Nathaniel Parker Willis and
  George Henry Boker, the collection includes ‘Rip Van Winkle,’ ‘Hazel
  Kirke,’ ‘The octoroon,’ Bronson Howard’s ‘Shenandoah,’ Gillette’s
  ‘Secret service,’ and even ‘Madame Butterfly’—here first published in
  dramatic form. ... As illustrations of contemporary tendencies in the
  theatre, the book includes plays by Clyde Fitch, Langdon Mitchell,
  Augustus Thomas, William Vaughn Moody, Percy MacKaye, Edward Sheldon
  and Rachel Crothers.” (Cath World)

  “Presents in a convenient form material not otherwise easily
  accessible. Bibliography (8p.).”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:302 Ap ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Ja 17 ‘17 620w

       + =Cath World= 105:106 Ap ‘17 300w

       + =Cleveland= p52 Ap ‘17 250w

  “If the three latest productions—those by Mr MacKaye, Mr Sheldon and
  Miss Crothers—had been omitted, space might have been found for Burk’s
  ‘Battle of Bunker Hill,’ for Mrs Bateman’s ‘Self,’ for Hurlbert’s
  ‘Americans in Paris,’ and for the plays in which Solon Shingle and
  Bardwell Slote are the salient figures. Otherwise the selection is
  excellent, even if the plays chosen are, many of them, little better
  than curiosities.” Brander Matthews

 *     + =Educ R= 54:84 Je ‘17 300w

  “As valuable a single book for student use in the pursuit of American
  literature as has ever appeared. ... The material is ample and
  typical, the text is clear, the introductory matter is compact with
  discriminating information, and the whole is capped with a
  bibliography which is generous without being a wanton display of
  industry minus judgment.”

       + =Nation= 104:547 My 3 ‘17 850w

  “Professor Quinn in his collection of these twenty-five representative
  plays, carefully and unobtrusively edited, has thrown more light on
  the state of public taste along the Atlantic seaboard in the last
  century than could be acquired from any other sort of collection.” R.
  E. Rogers

       + =New Repub= 10:sup10 Ap 21 ‘17 2000w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:42 Mr ‘17 140w

         =Pratt= p36 O ‘17 20w

  “This is the first collection of its kind and its significance and
  value will recommend it to all classes of readers.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:440 Ap ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:184 Je ‘17 20w

  “A convenient collection of twenty-five of the best American plays,
  which will enable the student to follow the development of the
  American drama, and makes possible that special study of it which the
  Drama league is promoting this year.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:157 My ‘17 70w (Reprinted from Drama League
         Monthly)


=QUINN, ELISABETH VERNON=, ed. Stokes’ wonder book of fairy tales. il
*$2 (2c) Stokes 17-25356

  This very beautifully illustrated volume contains a selection from the
  world’s best fairy tales, forty-two in number. An effort has been made
  to include all the most loved stories, among them Hansel and Gretel,
  Little Red Riding-hood, Three bears, Snow-white, Sleeping beauty,
  Aladdin, Ugly duckling, Cinderella, and Rapunzel. In addition two
  modern tales have been given the distinction of inclusion. These are
  “The tale of Peter Rabbit” and “The story of little black Sambo,” two
  stories “which have established themselves permanently in children’s
  hearts.” The pictures are by Florence Choate and Elizabeth Curtis.

  “The size will make it awkward for circulation but it is delightful
  for the children’s reading table, and for a gift book.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:101 D ‘17

       + =Ind= 92:444 D 1 ‘17 70w

  “The selection of stories seems judicious, and the texts used are
  direct and simple.”

       + =Lit D= 55:60 D 8 ‘17 60w




                                   R


=RADZIWILL, CATHERINE (RZEWUSKA) princess.= Germany under three
emperors. il *$4 Funk 943 17-30068

  “This account of Prussian diplomacy makes public for the first time
  much information regarding the Kaiser, his two immediate predecessors,
  and their great minister, Prince Bismarck. The author tells us how the
  first emperor was influenced by the great chancellor in the upbuilding
  of the imperial German plan, how the Emperor Friedrich, who might have
  modified this plan considerably, was rendered impotent by disease, and
  how Bismarck, ignoring his wishes, set about instilling the doctrines
  of militarism into the willing mind of the heir apparent. The story,
  as it unfolds, shows how the pupil outran the master and how the
  present Kaiser at last dismissed his aging chancellor and took over
  control of affairs himself. All this, together with the plots and
  counterplots that brought Europe several times to the brink of war, is
  set forth.”—Lit D

         =Lit D= 55:49 D 8 ‘17 140w

  “Princess Radziwill is by birth a Russian and, after her marriage to a
  Pole, she lived much in Berlin. In both countries her associations
  were with the court and diplomatic circles, and she knew personally
  many of the men and women who made the history of Europe during
  Bismarck’s half century of public life. Her book, however, is in no
  sense the gossipy chronicle which that fact might imply, but a very
  capable getting together and interesting arrangement of the facts of
  Germany’s political history since the middle of the last century, told
  with the vivifying touch of personal contact.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:14 Ja 13 ‘18 600w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p335 Jl 12 ‘17 90w


=RAE, HERBERT, pseud.= Maple leaves in Flanders fields. *$1.75 Dutton
940.91 (Eng ed 17-10673)

  “In ‘Maple leaves in Flanders’ a Canadian soldier, who hides his
  identity under the nom de guerre of ‘Herbert Rae,’ gives a breezy
  description of the recruiting of a Canadian regiment dubbed by the
  author ‘The pompadours,’ and what the regiment has done in the war.”
  (N Y Times) Admiral Markham writes the introduction.

         =N Y Times= 22:294 Ag 12 ‘17 300w

  “Written in an informal style, that is full of humor. ... The work is
  easy and delightful reading.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 21 ‘17 100w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p527 N 2 ‘16 60w


=RAEMAEKERS, LOUIS.= Kultur in cartoons; with accompanying notes by
well-known English writers. *$5 Century 940.91 17-31662

  Louis Raemaekers is conceded to be the “only great genius who has been
  brought out by the war”; who is “worth two army corps to the cause of
  the Allies.” This is a companion volume to “Raemaekers’ cartoons”
  published last year. To this cartoonist the war is not a “topic,” not
  a “subject for charity” but “a vivid, heartrending reality.” There are
  over a hundred drawings whose artistic appeal is subordinated to the
  appraisal of them as political documents and as historic records of
  crimes and barbarities “which the civilized world must not be
  permitted to forget lest the horrors of the past three years descend
  upon us again.” Each cartoon is faced with a paragraph of description
  and interpretation by an English writer.

       + =Lit D= 55:49 D 8 ‘17 140w

         =N Y Times= 22:514 D 2 ‘17 70w

  “There is little artistic finesse about Raemaekers’s work. His is of
  the blunt pencil rather than the Spencerian pen; yet force and action
  are added to his drawings in ratio to the thickness of his pencil. His
  vigor is crushing—well-nigh brutal. But his subjects demand the
  brutality he throws into his work. Despite this fact, however, he has
  light moments.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 500w


=RAINE, WILLIAM MACLEOD.= Yukon trail; a tale of the North. il *$1.35
(2c) Houghton 17-13621

  Gordon Elliot, an agent for the government, is sent to Alaska to
  investigate the valuable coal claims of Colby Macdonald. Macdonald is
  the big man of the North, and, while recognizing his brutality and
  ruthlessness, the North admires him and, in general, upholds him
  against the government. But Gordon Elliot comes representing a new
  order and a new social conscience which demands the conservation of
  natural resources in place of the reckless exploitation Macdonald
  stands for. The paths of the two men cross early. Elliot meets
  Macdonald on the boat going up. Sheba O’Neill is on the boat too, and
  the girl at once becomes a factor in the struggle.

         =A L A= Bkl 14:28 O ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 50w

  “It will be all the same to you whether you read this novel or any one
  of half a dozen of the same variety of the present season. It is a
  fairly plausible, well-planned yarn that clings to the traditions of
  its type and its setting.”

     + — =Dial= 63:118 Ag 16 ‘17 130w

  “No one will question Mr Raine’s first-hand acquaintance with his
  ground and the zest with which he handles the theme, even if the
  rather narrow trail has been trodden frequently before.”

       + =Nation= 105:18 Jl 5 ‘17 170w

  “The plot is put together in a workmanlike way, and contains plenty of
  incident.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:214 Je 3 ‘17 300w

  “An echo of the famous Ballinger conservation scandal of several years
  ago is found in ‘The Yukon trail.’ ... It is a wholly entertaining
  tale which moves at a rapid, virile pace against a background of
  rugged mountains, wide spaces and untamed nature.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 200w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:159 My ‘17 60w


=RALEIGH, SIR WALTER.= Sir Walter Raleigh: selections from his “Historie
of the world,” letters and other writings; ed. with introds. and notes,
by G. E. Hadow. il *$1.40 Oxford 900

  “This book contains, besides extracts from the first edition of the
  ‘History’ (1614), as well as some of Raleigh’s letters to his wife and
  others, the text of ‘The last fight of the Revenge at sea,’ issued
  anonymously in 1591. A biographical introduction, followed by
  commentaries on the texts, and ample notes, will be found in the
  volume.”—Ath

         =Ath= p257 My ‘17 60w

  “The extracts from the ‘Historie’ show what Raleigh thought on many
  questions of military science and statesmanship—some of them analogous
  to questions before us to-day, such as Spain’s aim at securing the
  hegemony of Europe, the contrast between the English and Spanish
  treatment of native races, the Spanish method of spreading false
  reports of victories in neutral countries, the best means of repelling
  an attempted invasion of England, the futility of trusting to a river
  or a mountain-range to stop an army, the method of dealing with
  ambassadors who plot against the country to which they are
  accredited. ... Miss Hadow’s notes are rather meagre. A short glossary
  of words used in obsolete senses would have been useful to the general
  reader or the young student. ... Attention is not called to Raleigh’s
  interesting use of ‘Armado’ of a ship, and ‘Armada’ of a fleet. ...
  The book is beautifully produced. The word ‘ingentes’ is, however,
  misprinted on p. 102.” G. C. M. S.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:456 Jl ‘17 550w

  “Miss Hadow and the Clarendon press have done a sound service to the
  cause of English history and English letters. ... They have made
  accessible the essential wisdom and the considered judgment of one of
  the keenest-edged spirits of Elizabethan times. ... The book has a
  peculiar interest for the Englishman to-day.”

       + =Spec= 118:644 Je 9 ‘17 1350w

  “In this little book the indispensable part of Raleigh’s writing is
  preserved.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p127 Mr 15 ‘17 1750w


=RALEIGH, SIR WALTER.= Sir Walter Raleigh: “the shepherd of the ocean”;
selections from his poetry and prose. il *50c Macmillan 820.8 16-25284

  “The finest and most moving poetry and prose by Sir Walter Raleigh has
  been edited in particular for students of literature by Frank Cheney
  Hersey of Harvard college. ... The selections include, aside from the
  introductory sketch of his life, twenty-six selections, those
  popularly known and others difficult to find, such as The 21st book of
  the lost poem, ‘Cynthia,’ written in praise of Queen Elizabeth, pages
  from ‘The discovery of Guiana,’ ‘A relation of the Cadiz action,’ and
  ‘A report of the truth of the fight about the Isles of Azores.’
  Portraits of Raleigh and Sir Richard Grenville and cuts from old
  paintings and drawings illustrate this volume.”—R of Rs

       + =Cleveland= p64 My ‘17 50w

  “A tercentenary offering. The selections are almost equally divided
  between Raleigh’s verse, in which he was always a gentleman, and his
  prose, in which he was not seldom a poet. In portions of the latter
  the editor has, wisely for the flavor’s sake, kept the old spelling.
  To include extracts from Raleigh’s trial was a happy stroke.”

       + =Nation= 104:546 My 3 ‘17 120w

       + =R of Rs= 55:214 F ‘17 180w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 26 ‘17 150w


=RAMSOWER, HARRY CLIFFORD.= Equipment for the farm and the farmstead.
(Country life education ser.) il *$2.25 Ginn 630 17-12148

  The author, professor of agricultural engineering in the College of
  agriculture of the Ohio State university, has prepared this book
  primarily in the interests of “the farmer of the present who is
  seeking information as to ways and means of making his work easier and
  his burdens lighter.” The book is also adapted for use as a college
  text. The author points out that the subject is one which has been
  given little attention, since the agricultural colleges, experiment
  stations, etc., have been so largely concerned with crop yields and
  the improvement of live stock. He devotes chapters to: Some principles
  of mechanics; Transmission of power; Materials of construction; Cement
  and concrete; Laying out the farm; Farm fences; Farm buildings; The
  farmhouse, etc., with special chapters given up to the principal items
  of farm machinery, The plow, Seeding-machinery, Grain-binders, etc.

         =Agricultural Digest= 2:505 Je ‘17 120w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:82 D ‘17

         =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 30w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:821 D ‘17 30w

         =Pratt= p24 O ‘17 10w

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 60w


=RANDOLPH, THOMAS.= Poems and Amyntas; ed., with an introd., by J: J.
Parry. il *$2 Yale univ. press 821 17-7487

  “Professor Parry believes that there are external reasons for the
  oblivion that Randolph [1605-35] has suffered. ... One reason why he
  believes Randolph has been unread is that, after his death, his
  brother made the mistake of publishing all of his works which he
  could find together. For this reason the reader has to wade through
  even the school exercises of Randolph in order to discover his
  mature work. ... To remedy this, Professor Parry has reprinted about
  one-third of the extant works in this volume. He has tried in every
  sense to avoid the errors of Hazlitt. He has made no changes of his
  own in the text, relying in large part upon the fact that most of
  the readers of such a book would be those who were familiar with
  seventeenth century literature and able to read the early texts with
  no difficulty.”—Boston Transcript

  “At the present time, it is too hard to find an edition of Thomas
  Randolph. He may be read only in rare early editions or in the faulty
  Hazlitt edition, which is itself long out of print. ... Professor
  Parry’s introduction to the volume will aid in making it of great
  interest to students.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p14 Ap 7 ‘17 500w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:78 My ‘17

  “Randolph, like so many other of the earlier poets, would find his
  most enthusiastic readers in those under twenty. Their minds are more
  impressionable and they are not so apt to question. If you begin to
  question and criticise too deeply, it is a wasted task to read him.
  ‘Amyntas’ is juiceless, and scarcely repays reading. Dr Parry’s
  editorial work is finely done, and his introduction is a model.” Frank
  Macdonald

         =N Y Call= p14 Ap 15 ‘17 200w


=RANSOME, ARTHUR.= Old Peter’s Russian tales. il *$2 Stokes 17-26894

  “The twenty-one stories in the book are such as Russian peasants tell
  their children and each other. ... The author says that the stories
  selected for this volume are ‘not for the learned nor indeed for
  grown-up people at all. No people who really like fairy stories ever
  grow up altogether. Their reading will convey some idea of the mental
  processes of the race inhabiting the broad plains and distant forests
  of half-mysterious Russia, and throw light on the Russian peasant’s
  interpretation of natural phenomena and the abode of his mythology.’
  The principal illustrations are the work of a Russian artist, Dmitri
  Mitrokhin.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Well told with humorous touches.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:101 D ‘17

  “They seem every bit worth while in their folk-lore quality.”

       + =Lit D= 55:56 D 8 ‘17 150w

       + =N Y Times= 22:512 D 2 ‘17 210w

  “He tells his tales with the skill belonging to an experienced man of
  letters.”

       + =Sat R= 122:sup10 D 9 ‘16 140w

  “The book is a unique contribution to the holiday output.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 280w

  “The tales, though they are second-rate literary matter, should read
  aloud well. The feeling is that the author is having a pleasant
  relaxation.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p607 D 14 ‘16 70w


=RAUSCHENBUSCH, WALTER.=[2] Theology for the social gospel. *$1.50 (2c)
Macmillan 230 17-31090

  An elaboration of four lectures delivered in 1917 on the Nathaniel W.
  Taylor foundation before the annual convocation of the Yale school of
  religion. The main proposition is that we have a social gospel and
  what we need is a systematic theology large enough to match it and
  vital enough to back it. In the first three chapters the author shows
  that a readjustment and expansion of theology, so that it will furnish
  an adequate intellectual basis for the social gospel, is necessary,
  feasible, desirable and legitimate. The remainder of the book offers
  concrete suggestions how some of the most important sections of
  doctrinal theology may be expanded and readjusted to make room for the
  religious conviction summed up in “the social gospel.”

  “The book is brave and direct and gathers together in lucid statement
  much that has been thought out in theology in the past decade. It is a
  combination of beautiful thought, of keen insight and of one-sided and
  restricted views. The social aspect of the gospel has its
  all-important place, but other sides of the question need to be
  considered in a completely philosophical work.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ja 15 ‘18 420w


=RAVAGE, MARCUS ELI.= American in the making. *$1.40 (2c) Harper
17-28804

  The young Rumanian who writes this “life story of an immigrant” tells
  us that they who know only America cannot really know America, that
  “only from the humble immigrant” can they learn “just what America
  stands for in the family of nations.” And so he tells us his story
  from his boyhood in Vaslui, Rumania, to his sophomore year at the
  University of Missouri. Mr Ravage came over in 1900 and settled among
  his country-people in the “Little Rumania” of New York city. He began
  to earn his living as a peddler, and after working in a bar-room, and
  a sweatshop, he succeeded in educating himself sufficiently to enter
  the University of Missouri, though the sweatshop, he tells us, was his
  first university, and his fellow toilers there gave him the first
  stimulus towards reading books and the first introduction to radical
  thought. “Nothing in the way of thought-interest was too big or too
  heavy for this intelligentzia of the slums.” His first year in
  Columbia is a lonely one, save for one friend. He goes back to New
  York for his vacation and lives “through the last and bitterest
  episode in the romance of readjustment.” One year in Missouri has made
  him a stranger to the East side ghetto and when he goes back to
  college he finds that at last the barriers are down between him and
  his classmates—that he is no longer “a man without a country”—he is an
  American.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:93 D ‘17

  “Mr Ravage’s story of how he became an American and why the process
  took so long is of especial interest and value because he brings out
  the non-material reasons for the difficulties in the Americanising of
  our newly come peoples. He makes clear the mental and spiritual
  non-adjustments, the constant strong pull of the old world soul. And
  that is something which we, with our so different heritage, find it
  difficult to realise.” F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 46:330 N ‘17 450w

  “But not as a portrayal of the Jewish spirit nor as a recognition of
  its leaven, not as a study in Americanization is this book primarily
  arresting. It is a remarkable sketch indeed of contacts between
  diverse cultures, but it is not alone an ethnological sketch; it is a
  picture of the life of the spirit, it is literature. In its ironic
  restraint and subtle interpretation the book is unsurpassed, it seems
  to me, in the literary art of this country.” E. C. Parsons

       + =Dial= 64:107 Ja 31 ‘18 2700w

  “Gives the impression of being not only a more searching but a more
  honest account of the process of being Americanized than has been
  presented by any one else.”

       + =Nation= 105:609 N 29 ‘17 440w

  “Mr Ravage’s story is full of spiritual adventure. Where have we a
  more illuminating picture of the motives, the pathos and the fantasy,
  that bring people from their remote countries to America?... Surely we
  have had nothing like this story of the assimilation of an eager,
  idealistic, floundering Rumanian youth into the light, hearty life of
  a mid-western state university. ... In such a career we see something
  vital being done to America by the immigrant, as well as something
  vigorous being done to the immigrant by America.” R. B.

       + =New Repub= 14:30 F 2 ‘18 900w

  “There is food for thought in ‘An American in the making.’ And always
  there is keen interest.”

       + =N Y Time=s 23:11 Ja 13 ‘18 1350w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:804 D ‘17 50w

  “The value of this autobiography lies in the fact that the author did
  achieve Americanization, and from this vantage point could look back
  over his heartrending struggles with an eye that fully appreciated
  what he had lost and gained. The humor and clear-sightedness of the
  author, to say nothing of the colorful and stimulating style, make the
  book one of the most interesting products of the season.”

       + =Springf’d= Republican p8 N 13 ‘17 1050w

  “[His experiences] are depicted with a remarkable command of English
  idioms and American sense of humor.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 14:31 Ja ‘18 130w


=RAWLINGS, GERTRUDE BURFORD.= British museum library. il $1.25 (2½c)
Wilson, H. W. 027.5 17-11000

  The author says: “This essay traverses some of the ground covered by
  Edwards’s ‘Lives of the founders of the British museum,’ and the
  Reading-room manuals of Sims and Nichols all long out of print. But it
  has its own field, and adds a little here and there, I venture to
  hope, to the published history of our national library.” (Preface) The
  chapters take up: Steps toward a national library; The Cottonian
  library; The Sloane bequest; The early days of the British museum;
  Anthony Panizzi; Later days of the British museum; Recent history of
  the library; Accessions by gift, bequest or purchase; Accessions
  through the copyright acts; The catalogue; The subject index; Some
  treasures of the British museum library. The appendix gives lists of
  some of the official catalogs and other information.

       + =Ath= p32 Ja ‘17 190w

         =St Louis= 15:355 O ‘17 20w

       + =Sat R= 123:15 Ja 6 ‘17 900w

  “An attractive and scholarly account of the rise and progress of the
  great library. ... Some of the principal treasures are well
  described.”

       + =Spec= 118:176 F 10 ‘17 100w

  “Without being in any sense a guide the book provides readers with a
  brief and well-arranged survey of the contents of the national library
  and of the methods of obtaining access to them.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p6 Ja 4 ‘17 700w


=RAWLINSON, HUGH GEORGE.= Intercourse between India and the western
world from the earliest times to the fall of Rome. il *$2.25 Putnam 930
(Eng ed 16-19470)

  “Professor Rawlinson has chosen a romantic subject for his book, and,
  within the limits he has proposed to himself, has done justice to it.
  Academic India is at present very busy studying the records of the
  earliest periods of Indian civilization, and is discovering with just
  pride and pleasure that the Hindu culture had much in common with the
  origins of the polities of western nations. ... The old Hindus were
  certainly daring navigators, keen traders, and colonists in distant
  lands. They were skilled administrators, and possessed a copious
  literature dealing with all the affairs of men in organized society,
  and lacking only in historical accounts of their own doings. The
  suggestion is natural that the West may owe larger debts to India than
  have hitherto been recognized.”—Spec

  “Needed only in large or special libraries.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:348 My ‘17

  “The author endeavours to give a succinct account of his subject,
  which has never been dealt with as a whole in any English work,
  although the material has been handled by a host of writers. ... The
  book is useful as a compendious summary, and probably may reach a
  second edition, when corrections such as those noted can be inserted.
  Others are needed.” V. A. S.

       + =Eng Hist R= 31:661 O ‘16 600w

  “With much learning, but in a readable and agreeable style, Professor
  Rawlinson has pieced together our fragmentary knowledge from the
  foregoing and other sources. His volume is a handbook, not a
  compilation of original documents like the tomes of McCrindle. The
  extent of his citations and the account that he takes of recent
  studies in this by no means neglected field gives it, however, much
  value for reference purposes as well as for passing perusal.” E: P.
  Buffet

       + =J Philos= 14:442 Ag 2 ‘17 950w

  “Those interested in the relations of East and West revived by the war
  will find Professor Rawlinson’s book a useful and entertaining guide
  to a necessary and picturesque background. ... The few errors in the
  book are due to the inaccessibility of a good library in India, where
  the author holds a chair in an Indian college.”

 *     + =Nation= 104:134 F 1 ‘17 950w

       + =Pratt= p41 Jl ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:377 O ‘17 10w

  “Full of interesting and suggestive topics—a work that will be even
  more useful to Indian students than to western readers of Indian
  history. The book is an admirable continuation of its author’s
  excellent ‘Bactria: the history of a forgotten empire.’”

       + =Spec= 117:106 Jl 22 ‘16 430w

  “If its facts were all known before, they were dispersed in a variety
  of books, and to bring them together into one cover is to do a service
  to a large number of people who would like to know the general results
  arrived at by research with regard to the relations of ancient India
  and the West, and who would be unable to consult the various books
  from which Professor Rawlinson draws.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p268 Je 8 ‘16 2000w


=REED, EDWARD BLISS.= Sea moods, and other poems. *$1 Yale univ. press
811 17-25111

  A handful of verse, most of which is introspective reaction to the
  varying moods of the sea. The writer depicts the depression of fog,
  the exhilaration and tonic of the blue sea, the caprice of the sea and
  its freedom and romance. The writer for the time being is “fisherman,
  hunter, and sailor, playing with dreams by the sea.”

  “These poems are well done, often very well done; the finish is
  complete, but they are illuminated from within. They have not the
  spontaneity, the abandon of an overflowing impulse. They tread a bit
  heavily their proper metres, overladen with a too literal expression
  rather than with the sense and emotion and imagination of the subject.
  The author rises to a higher perfection in verse than in poetry. Thus
  what we want is not verse about the sea, but the poetry of the sea.”
  W. S. B.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 N 7 ‘17 300w

         =Dial= 63:513 N 22 ‘17 30w


=REED, HELEN LEAH.= Memorial day, and other verse (original and
translated). *75c De Wolfe & Fiske co., 20 Franklin st., Boston 811
17-23580

  A little volume whose profits are to be devoted to the work of helping
  soldiers blinded in battle. It contains in the first part several
  patriotic pieces, among them “Your country and mine,” “The Harvard
  regiment,” “The Grand army passes” and “A Canadian trooper to his
  horse.” The second group is made up of lighter verse for children. The
  third division includes some well-known odes from Horace.

  “Sincere and varied verse, unpretentious and pleasing.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 720w

  “Miss Reed is not a poet of the highest flights, nor does she profess
  to be, but this book is thoroughly entertaining. Her expression is
  consciously confined; when she does write swingingly the results are
  less happy. Her verse is not free from faults of rhyme and meter. But
  the diversity of subject matter bears witness to breadth of mind.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 280w


=REED, HELEN LEAH.= Serbia: a sketch. il $1 (5c) Serbian distress fund,
555 Boylston st., Boston 949.7 17-59

  A letter from the author says that the book “aims to give the average
  reader a clear and concise account of Serbian history from the
  earliest times, with some attention to the present war.” The headings
  for the five sections of the book are: Serbia: starting; Serbia:
  singing; Serbia: seaward; Serbians; Serbia: sighing. The book was
  written for the benefit of the Serbian distress fund, and was first
  put on sale at the Allied bazaar in Boston. All proceeds from the
  general sale of the book also go to the relief fund.

  “The book will be useful to all interested in the causes of the war.
  Its sale will help the Serbian fund, and it is a pleasure to recommend
  it most heartily, as both well-written and generally accurate.” N. H.
  D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 16 ‘16 550w

  “Useful, for all its slightness, for the information it gives and the
  sense of personality it manages to convey.”

       + =Ind= 90:439 Je 2 ‘17 50w


=REED, HOMER BLOSSER.= Morals of monopoly and competition. *$1.25 Banta
pub. 338 17-13289

  “The author is primarily concerned in describing the evolution now
  taking place in the business world, ‘one of the outstanding features
  of which is the change from private and competitive morality to public
  and co-operative morality.’ He first attempts to explain why private
  competitive morality has been found unsatisfactory, by a detailed
  account of its results under the practice of railroad discriminations
  in the case of the Standard oil company. Secondly, he describes the
  solutions proposed as evolved in the court decisions concerning
  railroad rebates and a fair rate of return for public-service
  companies. Thirdly, through a criticism of these decisions, he
  attempts to set forth the principles established to meet the new
  conditions. Then, turning from public callings to private callings, he
  follows a similar plan in the case of the large industrial
  corporations. ... The general conclusion is that industrial
  combinations which are doing business under the law of private
  callings ought to be regulated under the law of public callings.”—J
  Pol Econ

  “The author predicts that the large industrial combinations will in
  the course of time come to be recognized as public service
  corporations, and will be subjected to regulation in much the same way
  that the railroads now are. But he does not make his point.” Eliot
  Jones

       — =Am Econ R= 7:643 S ‘17 600w

  “Students of business ethics will find the new book of interest as an
  outline of the changes which have taken place within a comparatively
  few years in that field. It explains the trend of the times, and is
  probably more or less prophetic of future changes in the matter of the
  regulation of business competition.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 3 ‘17 200w

       + =Ind= 91:134 Jl 28 ‘17 160w

         =Int J Ethics= 27:534 Jl ‘17 160w

  “Offers a clear and simple statement of the significant change that
  has occurred in our attitude towards ‘big business.’” B. H. Bode

       + =J Philos= 14:613 O 25 ‘17 350w

  Reviewed by C. W. Wright

     + — =J Pol Econ= 25:628 Je ‘17 570w


=REED, THOMAS HARRISON.= Form and functions of American government. il
*$1.50 (1c) World bk. 353 16-24343

  “This book is the result of nine years’ experience in teaching
  government and a lifelong interest in politics. It is intended
  primarily for that great majority of high-school pupils who go no
  farther on the road of formal education and aims to deal with the
  principles of governmental organization and activity in such a way as
  to be a suitable basis for the most thorough high-school course in
  preparation for citizenship.” (Preface) The book is divided into six
  parts, preceded by an introductory chapter on Government, and why we
  study it. The six parts take up: The background of American
  government; Parties and elections; State government; Local government;
  Government of the United States; The functions of government.

  “The author has shown remarkable skill in being brief without being
  misleading. A most commendable feature is the evolutionary or organic
  viewpoint, which finds consistent expression throughout.” A. B. Hall

       + =Am J Soc= 23:267 S ‘17 410w

  “Usefully illustrated; full bibliography at chapter-ends.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:334 My ‘17

  “The subject is treated from an historical point of view, but in the
  main each topic is brought up to date and the views are progressive
  throughout. ... Several errors—of fact rather than interpretation—may
  be noted. ... This book was in press during a period of unprecedented
  federal legislation, so various facts concerning the Philippine
  government, preparedness, military and naval academies, and the income
  tax are already out of date. Also, the shipping board, the farm loan
  board, the tariff commission, prohibition of child labor, and the
  inheritance tax have come into existence since the book went to
  press. ... There is an excellent bibliography at the end of each
  chapter.” F. A. Magruder

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:164 F ‘17 800w

  “An admirably stimulating text book.”

       + =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 70w

  “Teachers of civics who desire to make their instruction practical in
  the best sense of the word should not overlook this volume, for
  besides having the notable merit of definiteness Professor Reed’s
  volume is inclusive, well-proportioned, accurate, and readable.”

       + =Nation= 104:556 My 3 ‘17 120w

  “The author of this handbook came to his task with a rather unusual
  equipment. A graduate of Harvard university and of the Harvard law
  school, he was successively a member of the bar of Massachusetts and
  of New York, and in 1908 was appointed to a professorship of
  government in the University of California. For six months in 1911 he
  held the office of executive secretary to Governor Johnson and in 1916
  secured a leave of absence from the University to assume the duties of
  city manager of San José, Cal. His book, therefore, has a background
  of practical experience in governmental affairs.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:108 Ja ‘17 90w

  “Among the many volumes recently put out on citizenship for school
  use, it is clearly one of the ablest, both in its careful preparation
  and clear writing. In its real appeal to the natural civic interests
  of the high-school student it stands alone.” R. N. Baldwin

       + =Survey= 37:616 F 24 ‘17 250w


=REELY, MARY KATHARINE=, comp. Selected articles on immigration.
(Debaters’ handbook ser.) 2d ed *$1.25 (1c) Wilson, H. W. 325.73 17-6882

  Changes in this second edition of the debaters’ handbook on
  immigration consist of: a revision of the bibliographies on European
  and Asiatic immigration, with the addition of references bringing them
  down to date; a revision of the section on The European war and
  immigration, with the addition of new reprints, and the addition of a
  group of references on Americanization.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:366 My ‘17

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:154 My ‘17 40w


=REELY, MARY KATHARINE=, comp. Selected articles on minimum wage.
(Debaters’ handbook ser.) *$1.25 (1½c) Wilson, H. W. 331.2 17-6881

  This volume is an outgrowth of a pamphlet issued in 1913 in the
  Abridged debaters’ handbook series. Like other volumes in the series
  it contains briefs, bibliographies and selected reprints presenting
  both sides of a debatable question. The explanatory note says, “An
  attempt has been made to choose wisely such articles as would present
  the question from many points of view, that of the employer, the trade
  unionist, the lawyer, the economist, the social worker, etc.” Among
  those who argue for the minimum wage are Margaret Dreier Robins,
  Florence Kelley, John A. Ryan, Walter Lippmann, Sidney Webb and Louis
  D Brandeis. Among those opposed are John Bates Clark, F. W. Taussig,
  J. Laurence Laughlin, Rome G. Brown and Helen Marot. The volume is
  indexed.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:334 My ‘17

         =Cleveland= p54 Ap ‘17 40w

  “An excellent handbook giving all the latest data and discussion.”

       + =Ind= 92:193 O 27 ‘17 20w

  “The introduction, a brief sketch of the history of the minimum-wage
  movement, shows the compiler to be strongly in sympathy with it and to
  be capable of sharp criticism as regards its various phases; but the
  selection of articles is marked by impartiality as well as by good
  judgment. ... The 200 pages, including a bibliography and a good
  index, will be interesting and helpful not only to prospective
  debaters, but to the general reader desiring to get a fair impression
  of the considerations that have been brought to bear on this subject
  by representative thinkers and writers.”

       + =Nation= 104:556 My 3 ‘17 180w

  “In her introduction to the volume the compiler makes a few very
  interesting observations. ... The literature on the subject is very
  extensive, and the compiler made use of the best that has been
  published. General bibliography as well as references to the material
  used, and a well arranged index, are included in the volume which
  makes it very convenient for the reader.” A. L. Trachtenberg

       + =N Y Call= p14 My 20 ‘17 530w

         =Pratt= p12 O ‘17

  “In all cases the material is selected with impartiality and with
  obvious intent to do full justice to both sides of a question.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 100w

  Reviewed by Henrietta Walters

       + =Survey= 38:371 Jl 28 ‘17 100w

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:154 My ‘17 30w


=REEMAN, EDMUND HENRY.= Do we need a new idea of God. *$1 (3c) Jacobs
211 17-18044

  The Rev. Edmund H. Reeman is a Unitarian minister and is at present
  pastor of the First Unitarian church, at Trenton, N. J. He states in
  his preface that “there is need for a reinterpretation of life and a
  restatement of religious faith in the light of democratic outreach and
  impulse.” His book is an attempt to turn our “thoughts away from the
  old ideas of God as a king upon a monarch’s throne, the remote and
  transcendent creator and ruler of the world and life, to the thought
  of God as the God of all the struggle and outreach of life—the real
  Life-Force of the universe and the eternal toiler in the universe,—a
  God who needs our strength and grit and will and courage far more than
  He needs our tears and our penitence.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:74 D ‘17

         =Cleveland= p123 N ‘17 20w

  “This book makes good. ... There is a striking difference between this
  book and the most prominent current pronouncement on the same
  subject—H. G. Wells’s ‘God, the invisible king.’ Both books are good
  on the destructive side, with the balance decidedly in favor of Wells.
  Constructively, however, the British writer seems, in comparison,
  vague, truistic, naive, and dogmatic. ... Both writers conceive of God
  as finite, holding up men’s hands and being held up by them, but Mr
  Wells is vague in differentiating God from the Life Force and
  maintaining his personality, while Mr Reeman is perfectly clear in
  identifying the two and in giving the doctrine of divine immanence a
  modern pragmatic meaning.”

       + =Dial= 63:215 S 13 ‘17 600w

  “Like many other dissatisfied souls, the author finds it much more
  easy to point out the inadequacy of the old than to lead into positive
  notions of the new, but his attempt is a worthy one.”

     + — =Ind= 92:301 N 10 ‘17 330w

  “Much that the author says is well said, and has been said as well by
  leaders in scientific theology. ... Evidently he has not studied the
  New Testament, or seen its Revised version.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:143 S 26 ‘17 130w

  “This conception of God as the master spirit of struggle, the ‘eternal
  toiler’ of the universe, is shown to be in line with the facts of
  modern experience.”

         =R of Rs= 56:330 S ‘17 120w


=REEVE, ARTHUR BENJAMIN.=[2] Adventuress. il *$1.35 (2c) Harper 17-30121

  Marshall Maddox, head of “Maddox munitions, incorporated,” is murdered
  and the model of the telautomaton, a wonderful war invention is stolen
  from his safe. Craig Kennedy, “scientific detective,” well known to Mr
  Reeve’s readers, is put in charge of the case. Several other members
  of the Maddox family enter into the story. The adventuress is Paquita,
  a little Mexican dancer in whom Marshall Maddox has been interested.

  “From the very first page, where the story opens with the crack of a
  revolver shot, the reader is taken along through mystery, exciting
  adventures and deep-laid plots. The story is interesting from its many
  human aspects.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 310w

         =N Y Times= 22:538 D 9 ‘17 340w


=REEVE, ARTHUR BENJAMIN.= Treasure train. il *$1.35 (1½c) Harper
17-15286

  A dozen stories, adventures of Craig Kennedy, scientific detective,
  who, by means of chemical analysis or some curiously and delicately
  devised instrument, gets at the truth of a crime and rounds up the
  criminal. The crimes uncovered by his laboratory methods of
  investigation are of the subtlest order. Some involve the use of
  deadly toxins,—muscarin, digitalis, and abrin from the Hindu
  prayer-bean which resembles snake-venom. Some cases introduce deadly
  gas, deadly germs and dum-dummed poisoned bullets. For every mystery
  there is a quick and sure solution, the way to which comes
  spontaneously forth from the laboratory-trained mind of this calm,
  clear-headed detective.

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:342 N ‘17 30w

  “When one considers how closely the author follows the same general
  formula in constructing each story, the amount of variety in them is
  rather surprising.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:238 Je 24 ‘17 180w


=REEVES, FRANCIS BREWSTER.= Russia then and now, 1892-1917. il *$1.50
Putnam 914.7 17-13230

  In 1892 the author was sent to Russia in charge of the cargo sent by
  the Philadelphia relief committee to the famine sufferers. In this
  book he gives an account of his mission, illustrating it with
  photographs taken at the time. To give contrasting descriptions of
  modern Russia, he quotes from the writings of others, including two
  articles by Margaret Wintringer on the abolition of vodka.

  “The book takes on the nature of a pleasing memorial of a worthy
  charity and is hardly more than that.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 220w

  “Mr Reeves has made a pleasant and appropriate memorial of an incident
  in the friendly relations that have long existed between the United
  States and Russia, but he leaves unsatisfied those readers who expect
  any analysis or interpretation of Russia, or the Russians, then or
  now.”

     – + =Dial= 63:535 N 22 ‘17 180w

  “It is in the appendix to the book that we find the most useful
  information concerning conditions in Russia since the war began and
  before the Czar’s abdication. This for the most part consists of
  extracts from newspaper articles by other hands, and gives a fairly
  complete basis for contemporary judgment. Of these articles the most
  valuable is the paper on ‘Russia’s future needs for capital,’ by
  Samuel McRoberts, vice president of the National city bank of New York
  city.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:221 Je 10 ‘17 350w

  “The book contains nothing of consequence about Russia now, and the
  author saw, or at least realized very little about the bureaucracy of
  Russia then.”

         =Outlook= 116:116 My 16 ‘17 80w


=REID, FORREST.= Spring song. *$1.40 (2c) Houghton 17-8741

  Four of the Westons were ordinary children. First there was Edward,
  something of a fop, then Barbara, a trifle priggish, then Ann, always
  out of breath, but so warm-hearted and kind, and last, there was Jim,
  a jolly little boy with a fondness for riddles. It was Grif who was
  different. Grif sees and hears things of which the others are never
  aware. He is sensitive to influences that never touch his brothers and
  sisters. In this story he is brought to the verge of a mental and
  physical breakdown by contact with a morbid and unbalanced mind. The
  nature of Grif’s illness puzzles everyone, but his healing is finally
  brought about most simply and beautifully.

  “The children are well drawn, but the book will have only a limited
  appeal.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:406 Je ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 45:314 My ‘17 350w

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Mr 21 ‘17 570w

  “A heart-breaking little tale. ... And its poignancy lies in the
  fineness and restraint of feeling that differentiate it from the
  coarsely and slushily sentimental child-literature which so often
  appears to be ‘what the people want.’”

       + =Nation= 104:760 Je 28 ‘17 450w

  “Very moving and imaginative study of the most moving of all living
  things: childhood laid upon the rude sacrificial stone of adolescence,
  and quivering to its death.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 105:601 N 29 ‘17 90w

  “The descriptions of the English countryside are very lovely, and the
  story holds the reader’s interest firmly from beginning to end. There
  is about it nothing slovenly or unfinished; the author has the
  artist’s instinct, the artist’s loving care, and the result is a book
  of distinction and charm.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:47 F 11 ‘17 400w

  “More than half of Mr Forrest Reid’s story is a pure delight: the rest
  makes for what we are old-fashioned enough to think unnecessary
  sadness. ... The story of the clouding of an innocent but highly
  strung mind is not as horrible as that of ‘The two magics’, but it is
  painful.”

     + — =Spec= 118:48 Ja 13 ‘17 450w

  “There are few contemporary stories of childhood reaching the artistic
  height of ‘The spring song.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 380w

  “There are a number of very amusing scenes in the book, and the
  children’s characters, especially Jim and Ann are delightfully
  drawn. ... But the author’s intentness on the pursuing nightmare robs
  the later part of the book of some balance, until Grif’s delusions
  appear real against a rather shadowy background.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p536 N 9 ‘16 400w


=REID, SIR GEORGE HOUSTON.= My reminiscences. il *16s Cassell & co.,
London

  “Scottish by birth and ancestry, an emigrant to Australia in 1852, and
  later a successful barrister, prime minister of New South Wales,
  premier of the Commonwealth of Australia, first high commissioner for
  the commonwealth and now independent imperialist member of Parliament
  for St George’s, Hanover square, the author of this autobiography has
  had an active, eventful, and distinguished career, and has rendered
  many valuable public services. Much of the volume is concerned with
  Australian politics. ... The author relates several amusing
  incidents.”—Ath

       + =Ath= p313 Je ‘17 250w

  “As a summary of leading figures and measures in Australia it is of
  value, but outside of politics it is dull.”

     + — =Sat R= 123:437 My 12 ‘17 500w

  “Of Lord Kitchener he says: ‘When he spoke his words were few and
  distinct. Some thought him cold-hearted, and so he was when he was
  dealing with incompetents and offenders. But his was a warm heart, all
  the same. He was the only man in England who used to greet me with,
  “Hullo, old man!” I used to feel that such a greeting meant that he
  thought me fit for my job.’”

       + =Spec= 118:519 My 5 ‘17 1750w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p202 Ap 26 ‘17 60w

  “It contains too many technical and statistical passages to be read
  eagerly by the untraveled Englishman. It has no pretension to be a
  history of Australia; but it presupposes in the reader a considerable
  familiarity with that history, for it is mainly concerned with the
  mechanical progress of political measures and not with the physical
  and social conditions that made them opportune or expedient.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p206 My 3 ‘17 1100w


=REINHARDT, CHARLES WILLIAM.= Lettering for draftsmen, engineers and
students. 14th ed rev and enl il *$1 Van Nostrand 745 17-8375

  “More than twenty years of use under all sorts of conditions have
  proved the value of Reinhardt’s ‘Lettering.’ ... In the preface to the
  first edition the author stated that, while there were then many books
  that dealt with ornamental lettering, there was none which treated the
  art ‘from a purely practical viewpoint.’ To make good so great a lack,
  he set forth simply and clearly a very practical method of producing
  most effective results in freehand lettering of working drawings. ...
  The present edition has been given ‘a more rounded aspect,’ to quote
  from the preface, by supplying such apparent omissions as an analysis
  of the Greek alphabet, methods of laying out and constructing titles
  and by adding some practice sheets.”—Engin News-Rec

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:153 Ap 19 ‘17 150w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:463 My ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:176 Je ‘17

       + =School Arts Magazine= 16:396 My ‘17 120w


=REISS, RODOLPHE ARCHIBALD.= Report upon the atrocities committed by the
Austro-Hungarian army during the first invasion of Serbia; English tr.
by F. S. Copeland. il 5s Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent & co, London
940.91 (Eng ed 16-20123)

  “This is a translation of the report submitted to the Serbian
  government by Dr R. A. Reiss, of the University of Lausanne. This
  material is said to have been gathered on the spot during the months
  of September, October, and November, 1914.”—R of Rs

         =Ind= 88:284 N 13 ‘16 80w

         =R of Rs= 54:573 N ‘16 40w

  “The publication in this country of the work entitled
  ‘Austro-Hungarian atrocities’ is calculated to give a severe shock to
  those Englishmen who, whilst condemning and regretting Austrian
  policy, still preserve feelings of friendship towards the Austrians.
  It is a chronicle of horrors no less ghastly than that recorded by the
  responsible authorities of France, Great Britain, and Belgium who have
  inquired into the conduct pursued elsewhere by the ruthless and
  treaty-breaking ally of Austria.” [Earl of] Cromer

         =Spec= 117:583 N 11 ‘16 2150w


=RELTON, HERBERT M.= Study in Christology; the problem of the relation
of the two natures in the person of Christ. *$2.50 Macmillan 232

  “In ‘A study in Christology’ Dr H. M. Relton sets out the various ways
  in which men have attempted to describe the person of Christ, giving
  prominence to a theory propounded by Leontius of Byzantium in the
  first half of the sixth century. His contribution to the
  Christological problem is found in the doctrine of the
  Enhypostasia. ... Leontius offered the theory that the human nature of
  Christ was not without hypostasis, but became hypostatic in the person
  of the Logos. ... Dr Relton sets out the implications of this way of
  accounting for the person of Christ, and pleads that it answers to the
  demands of modern thought more successfully than various recent
  theories. ... The second part of the treatise deals with the analysis
  of human nature in the light of modern psychology and the analysis of
  the divine nature as manifested in revelation. The author then
  considers the relationship between the human and the divine as
  revealed by religious experience, and shows how this helps us to
  penetrate deeper into the mystery of the person of Christ. The third
  division of the book considers various modern attempts at
  Christological reconstruction.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  Reviewed by James Moffat

       + =Hibbert J= 15:679 Jl ‘17 140w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:95 Je ‘17

  “As we should expect in a thesis approved for the D.D. degree in the
  University of London, the work is a learned and technical study in
  theology; but the problems discussed are stated with precision and
  clearness, and no reader interested in the subject with which it deals
  need fear that he may not be able to follow with advantage the
  arguments of the author.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p137 Mr 22 ‘17 580w


=RENDALL, VERNON HORACE.= London nights of Belsize. *$1.40 (2½c) Lane
17-20181

  This story deals with “the unraveling of mysteries and the detection
  of crime by the non-professional expert,” but “Christopher Belsize was
  much more than a criminal investigator. He was a millionaire, to begin
  with. He was also a scholar, deeply versed in oriental lore; a
  collector, bibliophile, and a purchaser of libraries, who kept his
  purchases dark; and, for the rest, a young man who loved to play the
  part of Haroun-al-Raschid, and was possessed with a faculty of
  accurate and precise deduction which was indistinguishable from
  clairvoyance. He was recklessly generous, magnanimous, and
  (incidentally) benevolent. ... Being destitute of ordinary ambition,
  Christopher’s motive was rather the desire to ‘live dangerously.’ He
  asked for trouble, but he was so magnificently equipped that he seldom
  came to grief. Besides, on the advice of his eccentric uncle, he had
  practised revolver-shooting to good purpose, and—also on the advice of
  that mysterious relative—he had made a devoted slave of his body
  servant, Smith, an ex-burglar and pugilist.” (Spec)

     + — =Ath= p363 Jl ‘17 100w

  “The good detective story is never out of style, but ‘The London
  nights of Belsize’ is even better than good, for it is different.”

       + =Dial= 63:593 D 6 ‘17 80w

       + =N Y Times= 22:469 N 11 ‘17 410w

  “The author has a wit and originality of his own. His book is
  ingenious, imaginative, whimsical. Conceived on popular lines, it is
  written with the fastidious taste of a scholar.”

       + =Sat R= 123:504 Je 2 ‘17 650w

  “‘Belsize as a commentator’ is a tour de force of ironic criticism at
  the expense of Sherlock Holmes. But, on the whole, we like him best
  when he is most irresponsible, as in the delightful extravaganza of
  ‘The young man and the “happy” shop’—an admirable satire on the
  gullibility of the reading public and the methods of reviewers; or
  ‘The post-prandial peculiars,’ in which Belsize, disguised as a
  working man, is entertained by a millionaire. ... Mr Rendall has
  proved that the charm of sensational fiction is greatly enhanced when
  the author possesses style, scholarship, and wit. The stories in
  themselves are not above the comprehension of the average reader, but
  the literary bravura of their presentation will attract an esoteric
  audience. In fine, Mr Vernon Rendall has killed two birds with one
  stone.”

     + + =Spec= 118:645 Je 9 ‘17 900w

  “He becomes too much of the detective and too little of the adventurer
  and taster of life. ... Belsize is too good for the work to which Mr
  Rendall has put him, difficult and dangerous though that may have
  been.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p248 My 24 ‘17 460w


=RESSÉGUIER, ROGER MARIA HERMANN BERNARD, graf.= Francis Joseph and his
court. il *$2.50 (2½c) Lane 17-30309

  The author of the memoirs from which Mr Herbert Vivian has made
  selections is the son of Francis Joseph’s court chamberlain. His
  mother had been a lady in waiting to the Empress Sophia, mother of
  Francis Joseph, and some of her stories of earlier court life are
  embodied in these memoirs. The tragedy of Maximilian I and the
  mysterious death of Archduke Rudolph are among the subjects covered.

  “Those who had previously retained any optimistic illusions about the
  high family of Hapsburgs, of which the Emperor Francis Joseph was the
  decorative head, are doomed to lose them after reading the data Mr
  Vivian has selected.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 21 ‘17 770w

       + =Outlook= 117:574 D 5 ‘17 70w


Retreat from Mons. *50c (4c) Houghton 940.91 17-19810

  This brief but detailed and somewhat technical account of the “Retreat
  from Mons” is apparently the first of a series of little books on the
  Operations of the British army in the present war. Field-Marshal
  French, in his preface, points out that the demoralization which
  usually accompanies a retreat was conspicuous by its non-existence.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:90 D ‘17

  “The author has been careful to put down as fact only what has been
  proved upon reliable authority to be true. In this way he leaves the
  controversy which rages concerning the early weeks of the war, to the
  controversial, and his summary of the facts will not be inconsistent
  with history as it is finally written.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 260w

         =Cleveland= p1 Ja ‘18 50w

  “Beneath the superstructure of official facts one glimpses heroism and
  sacrifice the details of which will never be known, but which
  distinguish the retreat above many engagements that history will note
  more carefully.”

       + =Dial= 63:410 O 25 ‘17 120w

  “The semi-official little volume admits records are still clouded
  concerning the actions of Maroilles and Le Cateau.”

     + — =Ind= 91:352 S 1 ‘17 100w

  “It is solely a military history and so makes no account of
  picturesque incidents or pathetic or tragic happenings.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:323 S 2 ‘17 440w

         =St Louis= 15:418 D ‘17 10w


=REY, JEAN ALEXANDRE.= Range of electric searchlight projectors; tr. by
J. H. Johnson. il $4.50 Van Nostrand 623.731 ES17-91

  The translator in his preface points out that there is no modern and
  original work in English treating the subject covered by this book.
  The present importance of the subject has induced him to make a
  translation of this French work for the benefit of English readers.
  The author’s introduction says, “I have endeavoured to sum up the
  methods for range measurement, and, with the assistance of much
  information not previously published, the solution of the problem if
  not entirely elucidated, is at least advanced from a practical point
  of view.” The subject is treated in two parts: Illumination by
  electric searchlight projectors; Range of electric searchlight
  projectors. The French bibliography is included and the work is
  indexed.

  “The book will not be found particularly easy for the untechnical
  reader, but the charts and tables are of exceptional value, although
  their use is not always quite obvious without pretty careful study of
  the text. The volume is certainly a most timely one and should prove
  invaluable to students of artillery practice.”

     + — =Elec W= 70:1062 D 1 ‘17 570w

  “Altogether this is a very valuable and practical book. ... Mr Johnson
  has done his work of translation well.”

     + — =Engineer= 124:59 Jl 20 ‘17 1400w

  “The work will prove of great value to engineer officers.”

     + — =Nature= 99:402 Jl 19 ‘17 420w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p17 Jl ‘17 80w


=REYNOLDS, GERTRUDE M. (ROBINS) (MRS LOUIS BAILLIE REYNOLDS).= Castle to
let. *$1.35 (1c) Doran 17-23550

  A wild and romantic spot in Hungary is the scene of this story.
  Camiola France, a young English girl, has come to the place to visit a
  school friend. It is far off the beaten track of travel, and its one
  tourist hotel had been closed some years before after the inexplicable
  disappearance of a party of guests. There are weird tales afloat of a
  dragon—and there is an old prophecy concerning a fair-haired dragon
  slayer that seems about to be fulfilled. These mysteries fascinate
  Camiola, and as she is mistress of her own fortune, she promptly
  leases the ancient mountain castle that has stood empty for years,
  invites to it a party of her friends, and starts to investigate the
  mystery. The fair-haired young guide who acts as her companion in her
  search begins shortly to have for Camiola a personal interest. She is
  amazed at herself, and ashamed—but all this, as it happens, is part of
  the working out of the prophecy.

  “The book is well written, the descriptions of scenery are good, and
  there is plenty of interest in the characters.”

       + =Ath= p528 O ‘17 80w

         =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 50w

  “It is a book entirely of incident—a thriller for the movie-minded.”

     + — =Dial= 63:598 D 6 ‘17 80w

  “A delightfully romantic story.”

       + =Spec= 119:331 S 9 ‘17 30w

  “Mrs Reynolds very skilfully balances the reader’s interest between
  the romance, which is of the conventionally unconventional sort, and
  the other elements of the situation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 170w

     + – =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p431 S 6 ‘17 110w


=RHODES, JAMES EDWARD.= Workmen’s compensation. *$1.50 Macmillan 331.25
17-18174

  “This book sets forth in a style which can be easily understood by any
  intelligent reader the development, in this country, of the movement
  for compensating workmen who suffer accident in industry. It describes
  also the basic principles underlying compensation insurance. Inasmuch
  as the problems resulting from industrial accidents arose in Europe
  much earlier than in this country, a summary is presented, at first,
  of the distinctive features of the English and German methods of
  handling the question. This is followed by a discussion of the
  development of the agitation in the United States, covering the first
  decade of the twentieth century. ... In the appendix is found an
  outline of the history of the movement which resulted in the laws of
  New York state, the standards for sound workmen’s compensation laws
  recommended by the American association for labor legislation, and a
  brief digest of the various laws in force in each state at the end of
  1916. At the close of each chapter there is a list of references
  covering the literature upon the main topics discussed, and at the end
  of the volume is a general bibliography of ten pages.” (Nation) “The
  author is a claim examiner in the compensation and liability
  department of a large insurance company.” (R of Rs)

  “The demand for a concise and logical account of the movement for
  workmen’s compensation, and of the principles involved, is not
  adequately met by this volume; though its excellent forward-looking
  spirit, its satisfactory index, and its pretty full bibliography
  combine with the presentation of much material of interest and value
  to offset in a large degree the defects noted.” L. D. Clark

 *   – + =Am Econ R= 17:908 D ‘17 1150w

  “Because of the simple non-technical presentation of the subject the
  book is well suited both for the student who wants a general survey of
  the history and principles of workmen’s compensation without too much
  local and detailed study, and for the special student who needs a
  guide for further reading and research.” R. W: Foley

       + =Am J Soc= 23:552 Ja ‘18 250w

  “No better or more readable summary of the whole subject can be found
  anywhere than that which this volume places at the disposal of its
  readers.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:792 N ‘17 110w

  “This book presents a careful statement of the background and
  fundamentals of compensation and of its present status in the United
  States which should be useful as a basis for more detailed study or
  for a general survey of the problem. Particularly valuable are the
  illustrative cases and the brief digest of the essential points of
  laws now in force.” R. H. B.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:297 N ‘17 110w

  “The book will be found extremely useful by the reader who desires to
  get a fairly comprehensive knowledge of the essentials of workmen’s
  compensation. Chapter 6 on the constitutionality of compensation
  legislation is a good example of the author’s ability to present
  clearly within a brief compass all the important elements of a complex
  situation.”

       + =Cath World= 106:256 N ‘17 260w

         =Cleveland= p123 N ‘17 30w

  “The book is carefully documented in relation to legal decisions.”

       + =Ind= 92:109 O 13 ‘17 40w

  Reviewed by E. S. Gray

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:1049 D ‘17 380w

  “The book is a most timely contribution to the literature of workmen’s
  compensation, and will be welcomed by a wide range of readers,
  including business men, students, and teachers of insurance, and
  intelligent general readers, as well.”

       + =Nation= 105:268 S 6 ‘17 420w

  “The book can be heartily recommended to any serious minded
  wage-worker who wants to get a clear idea of the possibilities of
  social legislation as demonstrated in one, perhaps narrow, branch of
  it.” R.

       + =N Y Call= p18 D 15 ‘17 700w

  “One valuable chapter deals with the social aspects. This will appeal
  to the non-technical reader by its method of treatment.”

       + =Outlook= 116:660 Ag 29 ‘17 50w

         =R of Rs= 56:441 O ‘17 150w

  “Mr Rhodes takes an extremely broad subject and skilfully condenses it
  into compact form.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 360w

  “Mr Rhodes has filled a timely need. ... However, in valuing his
  discussion of state and stock company insurance, the author’s
  insurance connections must be borne in mind.” Irene Sylvester

     + — =Survey= 39:46 O 13 ‘17 300w


=RHODES, JAMES FORD.= History of the Civil war, 1861-1865. *$2.50 (1c)
Macmillan 973.7 17-30046

  Not a condensation of the author’s three volumes on the Civil war in
  his “History of the United States” but a fresh study which makes use
  of the large amount of material on that period which has come to light
  in recent years. Good maps and an index are included with the text.

  “An excellent and readable history.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:162 F ‘18

  “The student of war politics and of mid-century American diplomacy
  will find much to interest him in several of the chapters, for the
  volume is not, as its title might imply, a mere narrative of military
  operations. It is a discussion of national life in all its phases
  during a great and critical period of American history.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:158 F ‘18 100w

  “Like its predecessors, it is unusually well provided with a list of
  the best authorities, an ample table of contents, and a very complete
  index. In general, Mr Rhodes’s historical work has the distinction of
  frequent citations from the sources interwoven with his text, and a
  style uniformly clear, dignified and familiar.” L. E. Robinson

       + =Bookm= 46:592 Ja ‘18 1750w

  “Dr Rhodes here and there writes of certain episodes in greater detail
  than before; but in other places his lack of such detail is
  disappointing.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p4 D 15 ‘17 570w

  “The necessity of compression in putting the history of the Civil war
  into a single volume has made impossible the extensive use of [the
  method employed in his larger work]. But the author’s notable faculty
  of summarizing without leaving out the spirit, the life, and the color
  of events, and the fact that he wrote out of a reservoir of knowledge
  of just such intimate revelations of the life of the time infuse his
  narrative with unusual power to re-create the time of which he
  writes.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:494 N 25 ‘17 1350w

  “We now have in one volume of moderate compass, handsomely printed, a
  work on the Civil war which contains precisely what every American
  should know, presented with scholarship and yet always in readable
  style and manner.”

       + =Outlook= 117:653 D 19 ‘17 110w

  “The author everywhere shows the most absolute impartiality. ... Mr
  Rhodes writes in his usual clear and pleasing style.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 D 14 ‘17 500w


=RICE, ALICE CALDWELL (HEGAN) (MRS CALE YOUNG RICE).= Calvary alley. il
*$1.35 (1½c) Century 17-26784

  Nance Molloy lived with Mr and Mrs Snawdor, her step-father and
  step-mother, in Calvary alley, near the cathedral. The book tells how
  she grew up, how she became successively a “finisher” of pants, a
  factory hand, a companion to an old lady, a chorus girl, a
  stenographer, and a trained nurse, and how she fell in love with one
  of the two men who cared most for her—Dan Lewis, the factory hand, and
  “Mac” Clarke, whose father owned the bottle factory. Two older men who
  influence her life are Uncle Jed, her self-appointed guardian, and old
  Mr Demorest, who played the violin and taught Nance to dance.

  “A pleasing story, with nice human touches that will make it popular.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:61 N ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:340 N ‘17 40w

  “Not since Mrs Wiggs has Mrs Rice given us a book so rich in her warm
  humanity, her whimsicality and her catholic fondness for varieties of
  types as we find ‘Calvary alley.’ Yet it hints of bigger things than
  did Mrs Wiggs.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 31 ‘17 1250w

  “The story is interesting, wholesome, and very likable.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 O 27 ‘17 270w

  “While ‘Calvary Alley’ has no very serious pretensions and is written
  in a light and entertaining style, it does sincerely reflect a certain
  phase of American life.” M. G. S.

       + =N Y Call= p15 F 9 ‘18 270w

  “Mildly humorous, less crude, in its optimism than is most of its
  author’s work, and has quite a good deal of variety in its scenes and
  characters. Mrs Snawdor, Nancy’s stepmother, is a real and
  entertaining person.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:366 S 30 ‘17 600w

  “Once in a great while one runs across a truly vital heroine in
  fiction—a girl who lives and moves like a real being. Such a heroine
  is Nance Molloy.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 360w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p507 O 18 ‘17 130w


=RICE, CALE YOUNG.= Trails sunward. *$1.25 Century 811 17-10356

  This new volume of poems has a brief preface in which Mr Rice
  discusses recent trends in poetry. “Never has poetry tried so hard to
  be prose as at the present time in America,” he says, and he adds that
  the apparent revival of interest in poetry may be of brief duration.
  “No poetic public will long give attention to a realism which makes
  the mistake, common to all shallow realism, of neglecting passion,
  imagination, charm and nearly all the permanent qualities of any true
  poetry.” Among the poems included in the collection are: The trail
  from the sea; The chant of the Colorado; Mountains in the Grand
  Canyon; Hafiz at forty; a group of Songs to A.H.R., and a group of
  “Metaphysical sonnets.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:15 O ‘17

         =Ind= 91:108 Jl 21 ‘17 170w

  “Even in our day Mr Rice has the eccentricity of writing like a
  gentleman. ... I rarely use the term ‘sublimity,’ yet in touches of
  ‘The foreseers,’ particularly in its cavern-set opening, I should say
  that Mr Rice had scaled that eminence.” O. W. Firkins

     + — =Nation= 105:401 O 11 ‘17 380w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:78 My ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:168 Ap 29 ‘17 470w

  “The years have increased his power to write exceptionally beautiful
  lyrics of perfect melody.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:660 Je ‘17 80w

         =St Louis= 15:183 Je ‘17

  “In a day of petty heresies, Mr Rice stands forth as a declared
  champion of orthodoxy.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 200w


=RICE, GRANTLAND=, ed. Boys’ book of sports. il *$2 (1½c) Century 796
17-25763

  The selections in this volume have been chosen “from the best sporting
  stories that St Nicholas has produced in the last twenty years.” They
  include descriptive articles, among them a series on baseball by Billy
  Evans, a special article on pitching by Christy Mathewson, articles on
  football by Parke H. Davis, golf by Francis Ouimet, and tennis by J.
  Parmly Paret. In addition there are short stories by Leslie W. Quirk,
  Ralph Henry Barbour and others.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:174 F ‘18

  “Boys of ten to any age will enjoy this collection.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 40w

  “It is an encyclopedia, a treasury of outdoor tactics and
  accomplishment. Everything you want to know about things in the open,
  from fishing to aeroplaning, is here.”

       + =Lit D= 55:57 D 8 ‘17 100w

  Reviewed by H. B. Nagler

       + =N Y Call= p14 D 8 ‘17 290w


=RICE, GRANTLAND.=[2] Songs of the stalwart. *$1 Appleton 811 17-29998

  The author who is known as a writer on outdoor sports appears in this
  book of poems in a new guise. Songs of somewhere back; Songs of
  courage; Songs of the off-trail; Songs of the game; and Songs above
  the drumfire, compose the contents. There is an appreciative foreword
  by Irvin S. Cobb.

  “One would almost say that his art, simple, glowing and precise as it
  is, was altogether too fine for some of his themes and subjects; but
  this is not so, because nothing is too common for the spirit of poetry
  to light and reveal. This book is literature, an honor to the man who
  made it, and a delight to the reader who receives it. And Mr Rice
  stands quite alone in his achievement.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 430w

       + =Lit D= 55:30 D 22 ‘17 140w

  “Irvin Cobb writes: ‘One of these days they are going to elect a
  successor to the late James Whitcomb Riley as the most typical writer
  of homely, gentle American verse. I have my candidate picked out. His
  name is Grantland Rice.’”

       + =R of Rs= 57:106 Ja ‘18 130w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 11 ‘18 350w


=RICE, WILLIAM NORTH.= Return to faith, and other addresses. *75c
Abingdon press 16-23597

  “This slim little book, five addresses in all, taking title from the
  first, [does not present] the return to faith as due to many
  remarkable verifications in newly found records, of old traditions,
  nor to geological evidence that the biblical order of creation,
  interpreting a ‘day’ as this or that number of thousands of years, is
  now found scientific, nor to any similar finding of pseudo-scientific
  abracadabra. The return to faith is due to a belief in the man
  Jesus.”—Dial

  “Dr Rice represents the higher religious convictions of most liberal
  Christians. His book is remarkable for the unconditional and
  intelligent acceptance of science with all its implications. There is
  no string either to his science or to his religion.”

       + =Dial= 63:72 Jl 19 ‘17 240w

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 130w


=RICHARD, PAUL.= To the nations. *$1 (8c) Pond 172.4 17-10558

  This little book, translated from the French, with an introduction by
  Rabindranath Tagore, sets forth a view of the war as a conflict which
  the old social order is waging against itself. “The war has a purpose,
  even if the belligerents have none. It has a purpose to which none of
  them would care to attain, but which all will be forced to realize at
  last. This purpose is very simple: the old evil must be destroyed down
  to its root, the old foundations of the life of the people must be
  torn up, and replaced by the foundations of a better and truer
  civilization.” Revolutions are predicted for every country in Europe,
  altho the author hesitated to say which would be first. In the second
  part of the book he discusses the new ideals that must guide the
  reorganized nations.


=RICHARDS, H. GRAHAME.= Shadows. *$1.40 (1½c) Dodd

  The novel ends under the shadow of the war, and the later chapters are
  in striking contrast to the peaceful scenes of the beginning. A quiet
  neighborhood in Wales is the setting. A small group of children, with
  Hilda and Gwaine Brennan and Ronald Clinton as its center, are the
  characters. Hilda is the beautiful one of the two, but Ronald never
  wavers in his devotion to Gwaine, his little comrade. There is a long
  separation, however, when, after a disagreement with his grandfather,
  he goes to London to earn his living as a writer. The war comes and he
  enlists as a private and the reconciliation with his grandfather and
  his return to Gwaine come only after the fierce and bitter experiences
  of the first months of the war. These scenes are made very real, and
  Hilda’s fate, a minor incident in the tragedy, helps bring home the
  far-reaching consequences of war.

  “In later chapters of the book we have some of the most vivid
  descriptions of battle which have found their way into fiction. It is
  first hand description, we imagine.”

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 16 ‘17 250w

  “One of those books which just fail to attain excellence—and only
  just. A few improvements and it would become a really notable novel.
  There is in it much of charm, of feeling, of human quality. ... But
  every now and then comes a false note, a note which jangles, jarring
  upon the reader’s every nerve.”

         =N Y Times= 22:115 Ap 1 ‘17 500w


=RICHARDS, MRS LAURA ELIZABETH (HOWE).=[2] Abigail Adams and her times.
il *$1.35 Appleton 17-30245

  “Abigail Adams was the wife of John Adams, and hence the first
  mistress of the White House. But even if she had never had a part in
  official life, she was one of the most interesting women of her time
  and well deserves a biography. Mrs Richards tells the story of her
  childhood and later life from the diaries and letters that were
  written by her, and which deal with much of the real history of the
  period. Mrs Richards is a daughter of the late Julia Ward Howe.”—R of
  Rs

         =Lit D= 56:35 Ja 12 ‘18 270w

       + =Lit D= 56:38 Ja 26 ‘18 80w

  “A fascinating story of colonial times; fascinating to those who are
  interested in the details which make up the major part of all human
  lives, but are absent from most histories. The author has shown both
  skill and discretion in keeping herself in the background and
  composing her story mostly of the diary of the husband and the letters
  of the wife. The biography is almost an autobiography.”

       + =Outlook= 117:614 D 12 ‘17 80w

         =R of Rs= 57:100 Ja ‘18 80w

  “The book is offered as of special interest to girls; it surely has
  the qualities of a successful appeal to a far larger constituency.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 1 ‘18 290w


=RICHARDS, MRS LAURA ELIZABETH (HOWE).= Elizabeth Fry—the angel of the
prisons. il *$1.25 Appleton 16-19822

  “How Elizabeth Fry by the simplest beginnings wakened England at the
  commencement of the last century to the horrors of the prison system
  is told by Laura A. Richards in a short life written for girls. The
  ‘angel of the prisons’ was one of a noted family, the Gurneys of
  Earlham, ‘gay Quakers’ whose household of young folk was a merry one.”
  (Ind) “The book is largely composed of extracts from the journals of
  Elizabeth Fry and her sisters, which account for the vividness of the
  picture it gives.” (Survey)

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:270 Mr ‘17

  “The pleasant style of the connecting narrative and the vitality and
  humor of the original material will establish this biography as a
  rival of the author’s ‘Florence Nightingale’ in its interest for young
  people.”

       + =Cleveland= p160 D ‘16 50w

  “An inspiring book.”

       + =Ind= 88:405 D 4 ‘16 70w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:670 O ‘17 40w

         =St Louis= 14:441 D ‘16

  “The utter inability of the reader to tell how much of this book is
  fact and how much is Mrs Richards’ is its chief defect. My guess is
  that it will entrance many a child and tell him absorbing things that
  he will not learn in his school history.” W. D. L.

     + — =Survey= 38:76 Ap 21 ‘17 230w

  “A popular, entertainingly written biography, designed for young
  girls. It is, however, less suitable for the youthful than for the
  adult mind because of the introspective nature of Mrs Fry’s journals,
  and the unfamiliar people and customs to which there is frequent
  reference.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:125 Ap ‘17 30w


=RICHARDS, MRS LAURA ELIZABETH (HOWE).= Pippin, a wandering flame. il
*$1.40 Appleton 17-9251

  “Pippin is, indeed, a queer name for a boy, but, inasmuch as he has
  never known any other, that is the only one he is called. His story is
  the unusual one of an orphan boy, brought up in the underworld,
  instructed in all its vices by expert teachers, and his ultimate
  imprisonment for three years. The larger part of the book is concerned
  mostly with Pippin after his release from prison, where he has gotten
  religion and ‘found the Lord.’ His genial personality, brought out by
  the humane and intelligent prison chaplain, and his beautiful singing
  voice win for him many kind, helpful friends and a lovely bride. The
  story ends just as it should, with Pippin and his bride sitting down
  with friends to a merry wedding breakfast.”—N Y Call

  “Pleasant and harmless.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:406 Je ‘17

  “Of Mrs Richards’s many charming stories none is more so than this.
  Its unquenchable optimism and sincerity warms one’s heart.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 280w

  “While this book may be read and appreciated by adults, we feel
  reasonably sure that it will appeal greatly to thirteen or fourteen
  year old youngsters, who will follow the experiences and successes of
  the hero, Pippin, with much interest.” M. G. S.

       + =N Y Call= p14 My 20 ‘17 190w

  “The book is cheery and sweet without being sentimentalized. It is a
  ‘story,’ of course—not a piece of ‘gripping realism.’ But as a story
  it is wholesome and often unusual, and it is thoroughly readable.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:134 Ap 15 ‘17 420w

  “The spirit of moral uplift runs riot in ‘Pippin.’ The story is told
  in a partly illiterate jargon that frequently wearies the reader, and
  with an excess of sentimentality. But Pippin’s adventures have a
  measure of interest, and his optimism is engaging.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 280w

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:159 My ‘17 70w


=RICHARDSON, DOROTHY M.= Pilgrimage: Backwater. *$1.35 Knopf

  “In ‘Backwater’ Miss Dorothy Richardson continues the life story of a
  young English girl which she began in ‘Pointed roofs.’ Miriam
  Henderson was then—many years before the war—a teacher in a German
  school in Hanover. She is now home in England. She is just eighteen,
  ‘has put up her hair to-day’ in preparation for her career as a
  resident governess in a school for the daughters of gentlemen. ...
  Miriam’s is not a very large world, with its family of sisters, their
  chaff and slang and raptures, their music and books and friends and
  lovers. ... Nor is there much incident in it—the last gay little dance
  before the crash, the few weeks’ seaside holiday at Brighton, the
  visit to the Crystal palace on firework night, and the raw, noisy,
  suburban routine at Wordsworth house. ... Miss Richardson’s tacit but
  essential assumption is that life is an intensely real and rich, a
  desperately complex and wonderful, experience, however commonplace its
  circumstances may be.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  “Miss Richardson promises to be a writer of unusual power, a little
  too consciously clever, perhaps, but one to whom we may look for work
  of real value.”

       + =Dial= 62:483 My 31 ‘17 200w

  “Our interest in the book, which is considerable, would be increased
  if it were more coherent. The author has a curious gift of vision, and
  it is this that makes her heroine real and attractive, in spite of
  whimsies. ... The author’s subtlety is over-strained now and again,
  but it includes some acute criticism of life.”

     + — =Sat R= 122:138 Ag 5 ‘16 320w

  “This novel is a piece of the purest and, in a sense, barest
  impressionism. If in its steady obedience to its chosen truth it
  fails, as we think it will sometimes fail, to convince its readers of
  its verisimilitude, then so far that impressionism has defeated
  itself. ... But such systematic sincerity as Miss Richardson’s is a
  profound and affecting thing to share in.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p358 Jl 27 ‘16 500w


=RICHARDSON, HENRY HANDEL, pseud. (MRS JOHN G. ROBERTSON).= Fortunes of
Richard Mahony. *$1.50 (1c) Holt 17-23332

  “This is a study of a man of reserved, though lovable disposition. We
  first meet him as a storekeeper in Ballarat [Australia] during the
  gold craze. Later he makes a success as a doctor; and finally we leave
  him on his way to England, still in search of an environment suited to
  his character.” (Ath) “The English edition, issued by William
  Heinemann, who has evident and steadfast faith in this writer,
  indicates that Henry Handel Richardson is the author of ‘Maurice
  Guest’ and ‘The getting of wisdom,’ and that ‘The fortunes of Richard
  Mahony’ is only the first novel in a series; Book 1 of ‘Australia
  Felix.’” (Bookm)

  “Good descriptions of Australia sixty years ago.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:133 Ja ‘18

         =Ath= p47 Ja ‘18 60w

  “‘Maurice Guest’ and ‘The fortunes of Richard Mahony’ are two books
  that discriminating readers should know, and ‘Henry Handel Richardson’
  is a name that, long since known on the continent, through the various
  translations of ‘Maurice Guest,’ should not any longer be unknown to
  America.” Edna Kenton

       + =Bookm= 46:580 Ja ‘18 1850w

  “The faults and merits of ‘The fortunes of Richard Mahony,’ are so
  evenly balanced that it is not nearly so distinguished as if it were a
  little better or a little worse. ... There are few stories beyond
  those of the ‘Boy bush-ranger’ type which deal with life on the
  Ballarat goldfields in the ‘50s; so Mr Richardson’s treatment of this
  subject in the manner of the twentieth century realist is by no means
  unacceptable on the score of novelty. Richard Mahony is himself a
  creation to be proud of, a character but never a caricature.” J. F. S.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 O 3 ‘17 700w

  “As a satire, in historical perspective, on the pedestrian soul of the
  mid-Victorian young gentleman, it would be fairly amusing. But its
  author is not satirical.”

     – + =Dial= 63:596 D 6 ‘17 480w

  “It is a strictly realistic piece of work, conscientious, carefully
  wrought; of plot it has very little, and there is no very especial
  drama of character. ... They are real people who move through Mr
  Richardson’s pages, and the events which occur are simple and
  natural. ... It must be admitted that at the end one has the feeling
  of having traveled a long way without getting anywhere in particular.
  But the road has its attractions.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:360 S 23 ‘17 480w

  “The author reminds us again and again of the late William de Morgan,
  with his inconsequence, his eye for the apparently trivial that counts
  for so much in life, his flashes of humour, and his occasional
  fragments of excellent narrative. ... He shows wonderful insight into
  character, and he describes the Australian scenery and the rude
  conditions of those days as vividly as if, like Richard Mahony, he
  hated them. ... In Mahony’s circle Mr Richardson gives free rein to
  his comic sense.”

       + =Spec= 119:221 S 1 ‘17 900w

  “Takes one or two daring plunges into the slough of naturalism. These
  spots remain red on the memory of the reader in rather unpleasant
  contrast to the sleepy flatness of the rest of the tale. ... As a
  series of character sketches, ‘The fortunes of Richard Mahony’ is
  excellent. Indeed, Mr Richardson is often successful in arousing that
  sense of exasperation which is the test of good character drawing.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 530w

  “Very long, never for a moment exciting, and continuously
  interesting. ... The novel gives the impression of a large grasp on
  life and a steady hand.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p416 Ag 30 ‘17 480w


=RICHARDSON, ROBERT CHARLWOOD.= West Point. il *$2 (3c) Putnam 355.07
17-25795

  This “intimate picture of the National military academy and of the
  life of the cadet” is by the late assistant professor of English at
  West Point, now a captain in the United States army. The first two
  chapters give a brief history of the academy. The appendix, which is
  reprinted from the Official register of the United States military
  academy, 1916, gives information relative to the appointment and
  admission of cadets. There is a foreword by Major-General Hugh L.
  Scott.

         =ALA Bkl= 14:114 Ja ‘18

  “Mr Richardson does not give all his pages to war. The peculiar charm
  of life at West Point is not forgotten, and traditions and customs
  receive ample space. The beauty of the buildings, the loveliness of
  the setting, are competently handled. The illustrations are many and
  well chosen.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 20 ‘17 450w

  “Exactly the book for the boy seeking an appointment.”

       + =Cleveland= p2 Ja ‘18 30w

         =Ind= 92:61 O 6 ‘17 100w

         =Lit D= 55:51 D 8 ‘17 130w

  “This interpretation, drawn from the author’s own experience and from
  many conversations with cadets of to-day, is exceedingly well done,
  and makes the book valuable to all loyal Americans.”

       + =Outlook= 117:476 N 21 ‘17 130w

  “It is regrettable that the author makes no mention of the important
  contribution of West Point to engineering and scientific education. It
  is perhaps not generally known that for twenty-two years (1802-24),
  the Military academy was the only technical school in this
  country. ... Its graduates, in civil life or in the army, built most
  of our early railroads, ran our surveys, constructed our canals,
  lighthouses, and public buildings. ... A more intangible want will be
  felt in reading the book by those who know the academy well. ... The
  graduate will not quite feel that it breathes the living, exultant,
  fighting spirit of his Alma mater.” S. C. Godfrey, Major, Corps of
  engineers

     + — =Pub= W 92:813 S 15 ‘17 670w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 D 2 ‘17 380w


=RICHMOND, GRACE LOUISE (SMITH) (MRS NELSON GUERNSEY RICHMOND).= Brown
study. il *$1.25 (4c) Doubleday 17-11704

  The minister of a rich and aristocratic church, ordered to take a
  rest, does so in an out of the way corner of the city, where he can
  live in close neighborliness to the poor and lowly. The story tells of
  his life among his new friends, of his decision to remain with them,
  and of the choice a beautiful girl makes between her love for him and
  a worldly career.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:61 N ‘17

  “A pretty and measurably conventional romance.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 30 ‘17 110w

  “The little story is told in rather a disjointed way, and lacks the
  charm and the suggestion of homelike, everyday life which made certain
  of Mrs Richmond’s books such pleasant reading. The whole thing seems
  forced. ... However, it has some agreeable touches.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:266 Jl 15 ‘17 200w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 250w


=RICHMOND, GRACE LOUISE (SMITH) (MRS NELSON GUERNSEY RICHMOND).= Red
Pepper’s patients; with an account of Anne Linton’s case in particular.
il *$1.35 (2c) Doubleday 17-24403

  The masterful, quick-tempered, kindly, red-headed doctor who figured
  in “Red Pepper Burns” and “Mrs Red Pepper” has become the most popular
  physician and surgeon in a small suburban town. Some of the patients
  whose stories are interwoven with his are his old friend, Gardner
  Coolidge, a starving young Hungarian violinist; Anne Linton, the
  book-agent with hair to match “Red” Pepper’s own, who has a bad attack
  of typhoid fever, and about whom clings a mystery; Jordan King, badly
  hurt in an automobile accident; and “Red’s” old enemy, Dr Van Horn.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:98 D ‘17

         =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 70w

  “As usual, Mrs Richmond makes all her people handsome and interesting
  and angelic, such paragons of beauty and behavior that they seem
  hardly to belong in the naughty world that most of us know.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:361 S 23 ‘17 360w

  “Romantic and likely to be popular.” Marguerite Wilkinson

       + =Pub W= 92:802 S 15 ‘17 330w

  “This is the third volume Mrs Richmond has devoted to the far-reaching
  services of the auburn-haired doctor, but as yet the tone of
  artificiality which so often appears when a single character is made
  the center of a series of stories is conspicuously absent.”

                 + Springf’d Republican p17 D 9 ‘17 300w


=RICHMOND, GRACE LOUISE (SMITH) (MRS NELSON GUERNSEY RICHMOND).=
Whistling mother. il *50c (11½c) Doubleday 17-22303

  “Mrs Richmond puts her little tale into the mouth of a boy who has
  enlisted in the army. He tells in engaging boyish style just what
  happened when, having decided he must go, he left college, where he
  was in his junior year, and went home for twenty-four hours to say
  good-bye. ... And through all the trial of the visit home and the last
  good-by his mother was ‘a thorough sport.’ ... He was in the habit of
  calling her his ‘whistling mother’ because she could whistle ‘like a
  blackbird,’ and they had a whistling call for each other of which the
  music and the words form the heading of the little story.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:28 O ‘17

         =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 30w

  “Exceedingly well written.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 S 9 ‘17 250w

  “Artistically, it is the best thing Mrs Richmond has ever done.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:286 Ag 5 ‘17 220w


=RICHMOND, MARY ELLEN.= Social diagnosis. *$2 Russell Sage foundation
361 17-13224

  This book for social workers is a study of methods of case work as
  applied by various charity organization societies. The author’s aim
  has been to make some advance toward a professional standard. She
  believes also that the methods devised in social work, as here set
  forth, will be of value in other fields, such as medicine, education
  and industry. Part 1 deals with Social evidence, with chapters on:
  Beginnings, The nature and uses of social evidence, Testimonial
  evidence, etc. Part 2 takes up The processes leading to diagnosis,
  considering The first interview, The family group, Outside sources,
  etc. Part 3 is devoted to Variations in the processes, with chapters
  given to certain special cases, the blind, the feebleminded, etc.
  Special tables have been prepared for the volume, and there is a
  bibliography and a good index.

  “The questionnaires [part 3] represent the experiences of many experts
  and will probably set the standard for a great deal of such work in
  the future.” W. H. Heck

     + + =Am Econ R= 7:899 D ‘17 970w

  “It is the only comprehensive textbook on social work in relation to
  the individual or family ever written. The book dignifies all social
  work and marks its first steps on the road to becoming a profession.”
  Amelia Sears

     + + =Am J Soc= 23:261 S ‘17 680w

  “It should form the basis for intelligent study even in small
  communities and will be invaluable to the individual engaged in case
  work.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:430 Jl ‘17

  “Some workers would be spurred to greater efforts from reading this
  book. Others, and particularly beginners, might throw up their hands
  in despair. There is no case worker who could not be helped from the
  reading of this book. He will realize how far he still has to travel.”
  W: B. Bailey

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:771 N ‘17 440w

  “A valuable contribution to social literature. It is rich with
  suggestions but is too long drawn out. It could have been just as
  ‘meaty’ with fewer pages and certainly it would have been more
  readable and more read.” G. F.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 1 ‘17 450w

         =Cleveland= p93 Jl ‘17 90w

  “She has produced a book remarkable for the accuracy of the methods
  outlined for the social worker and for the detail and thoroughness
  with which she has gone into the subject of measurements in one phase
  of life,—the pathology of social adjustment.”

       + =Dial= 63:458 N 8 ‘17 260w

  “The author is remarkably successful in holding a proper balance
  between generalization and example. But it is a thousand pities that
  the most valuable of these examples are tucked away in pages of type
  so small that a considerable body of readers will probably skip them
  altogether. ... Miss Richmond has felt it best to exclude a study of
  the client’s religious life. She has felt that one could adequately
  diagnose and serve the needs of a human being without knowing just
  what his religion or irreligion means to him. In my opinion this is an
  impossible attempt.” R: C. Cabot

     + — =Ind= 91:348 S 1 ‘17 1000w

  “With this book social welfare work has ceased to be a mere body of
  traditional practices and is in a way to become a science. Although it
  was written primarily for a special class of social workers, ‘Social
  diagnosis’ will interest every student of the social sciences who
  believes that sociology is ever to be anything more than a philosophy
  of history or an appanage of social psychology.” R. E. Park

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:952 N ‘17 960w

  “No social worker who hopes to rise in the profession ought to be
  without this book; and no student of applied sociology should fail to
  pore over it.”

       + =Nation=104:717 Je 14 ‘17 330w

  “Miss Richmond has given authoritative and exhaustive treatment to a
  vexed problem in its fundamental aspects.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:217 Je 3 ‘17 450w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:688 O ‘17 20w

         =Pratt= p12 O ‘17 30w

       + =R of Rs= 56:440 O ‘17 60w

  “The book is nothing if not concrete, and in the preliminary fields to
  which it has confined itself it is exceedingly comprehensive.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 4 ‘17 280w

  “This is an admirable book, which deserves to be read and pondered far
  outside of the circle for which it was immediately intended.” Roscoe
  Pound

 *     + =Survey= 39:254 D 1 ‘17 1000w

  “Every social worker in towns of 10,000 should either own it or be
  able to consult it in the library.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:215 Jl ‘17 60w


=RIDDELL, WALTER ALEXANDER.= Rise of ecclesiastical control in Quebec.
(Columbia univ. studies in history, economics and public law) pa *$1.75
Longmans 277.1 16-22304

  “The book tells how the economic, ethnic, and political conditions
  which have prevailed in the province of Quebec led up to and made
  possible the strategic position of the Roman Catholic church in
  Canada. The aim of the author, to use his own words, is ‘to present
  sufficient source material to afford the general reader a basis upon
  which to form an adequate judgment of the sociological and historical
  origins in Quebec which have been responsible in a large part for the
  present racial situation in Canada as a whole ... and to show their
  relation to the growth of the church itself.’”—J Pol Econ

  “The author has examined the marriage registers in more than eighteen
  hundred cases and finds that the colonists, so far as these records
  give indication, came with a fair degree of evenness from all over
  France. This is data which the historian of the future cannot afford
  to overlook. The real service of the book is performed in the last two
  chapters, where there is more attention to history and less to
  sociology. The early rise of church influence in the affairs of New
  France and its later decline during the first half of the eighteenth
  century are traced out with care and clearness. The position of the
  church when Quebec passed into British hands ... all these things are
  explained fully and with judicious temper. While Dr Riddell has used
  good materials, the tendency to be inaccurate in little things is a
  serious blemish.” W: B. Munro

     + — =Am Hist R= 22:720 Ap ‘17 650w

  “This book throws much light on the present socio-political situation
  in Canada. The barrier that has grown up between the English- and
  French-speaking people, largely through the instrumentality of the
  church, promises to be one of the most serious control problems which
  the dominion government has to face.”

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:636 Je ‘17 500w

  “Even in a field adorned by the brilliant pens of Parkman and Fiske
  the work before us must take a very high place from its sound
  scholarship, abundant references to authorities, and good writing. ...
  Dr Riddell’s book can never be ignored by any serious student of the
  history of this continent.” I. C. Hannah

       + =Survey= 38:575 S 29 ‘17 280w


=RIDDELL, WILLIAM RENWICK.= Constitution of Canada in its history and
practical working. (Yale lectures on the responsibilities of
citizenship) *$1.25 Yale univ. press 342 17-15183

  “An interesting study of the constitution of Canada in its historical
  and practical aspects. ... A full comparison of the Canadian
  constitution with that of the United States shows very clearly the
  differences between the two systems. The book is written with as
  little technical language as the nature of the study permits.”
  (Ontario Library Review) “Each of the four lectures has a full and
  valuable appendix, containing much material which the requirements of
  the lecture platform apparently prevented from being included in the
  body of the work.” (Springf’d Republican)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:77 D ‘17

  “So far as his own land is concerned the author is on sure ground; but
  his knowledge of constitutional law as administered by the courts in
  this country is by no means of the same high order.” W: B. Munro

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:781 N ‘17 480w

  “The brevity of the book is such that only an outline of historical
  development is possible. Furthermore, the subject is treated with a
  nonlegal audience always in mind. The student of history and
  government, as well as the student of law, will gain little from the
  volume. Generalizations are indulged in with much freedom, and some
  are open to question.”

     + — =Dial= 63:276 S 27 ‘17 180w

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:109 My ‘17 50w

  “Justice Riddell is to be thanked for his painstaking and highly
  simplified summary of Canada’s history and present government. It
  begins where the majority of educated Americans will find a beginning
  desirable—at very elementary facts. Students of jurisprudence will be
  particularly interested in Justice Riddell’s views on the decision of
  the Supreme court in the Dartmouth college case, which are quoted in
  full in an appendix.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 2 ‘17 830w


=RIDER, BERTHA CARR.= Greek house; its history and development from the
Neolithic period to the Hellenistic age. il *$3.25 Putnam 722 16-24977

  “The excavations of recent years in Crete, Asia Minor, Delos and other
  islands, and the Greek mainland, have brought to light a wealth of
  material for the study of house-planning in Greece both prehistoric
  and historic. Unfortunately, this material is least abundant for the
  period when we most of all desire it—the classical epoch of the fifth
  and fourth centuries B.C. On the other hand, it is remarkably copious
  in the period which begins with the dawn of civilization in the
  Aegean, and ends on the threshold of the Homeric age. ... Miss Rider
  has endeavoured to embrace within her grasp the whole of this
  material, and to bridge the central gap by means of literary
  evidence.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

       + =Dial= 61:482 N 30 ‘16 130w

  “The chapter on Homeric palaces is of especial value to the student,
  with its discussion of Homeric terms and phrases.”

         =Lit D= 54:204 Ja 27 ‘17 250w

  “The principal value of the book lies not in its advocacy of a theory,
  but in the excellent summary which it presents of a large special
  literature, mostly scattered in periodicals. ... Miss Rider shows the
  specialist’s fondness for technical terms, which may occasionally
  prove an obstacle to the non-professional reader. On the whole,
  however, the book is extremely well written. ... We must register one
  protest—against the price of the book, which seems excessive for a
  volume of this size, illustrated only with line cuts.”

 *     + =Nation= 104:191 F 15 ‘17 600w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:169 N ‘16

         =Pittsburgh= 22:316 Ap ‘17

         =Pratt= p32 Jl ‘17 20w

  “By no possibility can it ever be a popular book; it is far too
  specialized and technical in its scope and treatment. ... There can be
  no question about the research and scholarship that have gone to its
  making. ... Miss Rider is doubtless writing for fellow archæologists
  as learned as herself—for the already converted, to whom her unadorned
  statements of fact will seem more excellent than any charm of style.”

       + =Spec= 117:sup607 N 18 ‘16 400w

  “Her presentation of the facts is clear and accurate, and the plans
  with which her text is illustrated are well chosen, nothing essential
  being omitted.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p424 S 7 ‘16 850w


=RIDGE, WILLIAM PETT.= Madame Prince. *$1.35 (1½c) Doran 16-24204

  Madame Prince is a dressmaker in a London suburb. She is a capable and
  level-headed business woman and the mother of four children. We are
  told something of her early struggles, but these are past when the
  story opens. The three girls are old enough to act as their mother’s
  assistants in the shop and Richard, the boy, is finishing school. The
  cares that meet Madame Prince as the story progresses are those of the
  mother of grown-up children, and they spring largely from the
  unconscious selfishness of youth. But there are joys that compensate.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:357 My ‘17

  “A superfluity of detail is noticeable, and there are some trivial
  incidents; but a bright tone predominates, and much of the book is
  true to life. The novel is amusing, and a good example of the author’s
  style.”

       + =Ath= p481 O ‘16 70w

  “Quiet as the humor of the book is, it is also compelling.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ap 14 ‘17 400w

  “Mme Prince wins and holds the reader’s sympathy, holds it from the
  first page to the last. ... The story is related with a good deal of
  humor and charm. ... It is life as a very, very great number of
  people—the majority, perhaps—know it, which is portrayed so deftly and
  so veraciously in these pages.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:54 F 18 ‘17 450w

  “We see Madame Prince clearly, she is the mother woman existing only
  for her children. The children exist only for her, but in another
  sense; we do not see them clearly, because the author confines himself
  to describing such actions of theirs as throw light on the mother’s
  character, without confining himself further to such as are mutually
  consistent. ... Mr Pett Ridge has another bait in addition to his
  story, and that is his gift for writing crisp dialogue.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p500 O 19 ‘16 400w


=RIHBANY, ABRAHAM MITRIE.=[2] Militant America and Jesus Christ. *65c
(8c) Houghton 172.4 17-31542

  The author of “The Syrian Christ” has written this book to show that
  Jesus Christ would not have been a non-resistant in the present war.
  He says, “I do not so know Christ. I do not believe the New Testament
  presents such a hopelessly and helplessly neutral Christ.” Such
  pacific sentiments as “Blessed are the peacemakers” were the
  utterances of normal times and are no more to be taken as an
  expression of an attitude toward war than were the pacific sermons and
  baccalaureate addresses common in America a decade ago. These later
  authors have now been put to a test which Jesus was never called on to
  face, since no such crisis as the present arose in his day. The author
  feels that after an examination of other New Testament passages, “even
  a pacifist must see that while our gospel is a message of peace, it is
  not a message of helpless submission to rapacious aggressors.”

  “A vigorous answer to those pacifists who seek to entrench themselves
  behind the teachings of Jesus.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:162 F ‘18

       + =Boston Transcript= p4 D 15 ‘17 110w

  “It bears eloquent evidence of the value of much in little. Mr
  Rihbany’s book is eloquent and convincing. If converts are possible,
  it will make them.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 22 ‘17 1600w

  “In his eagerness to make our divine Saviour the more human and the
  more understandable to others, Mr Rihbany appears to have thrown up a
  lot of Syrian dust through which it is not always easy to see clearly
  the Christ who is divine. His interpretation of Christ lacks
  authority; the Christ he pictures for his readers lacks authority. And
  of what use to soldiers or to anyone else, to men seeking the light,
  is a Christ who lacks authority, who cannot lead or command.”

       — =Cath World= 106:687 F ‘18 160w

  “One of the most convincing answers that has been made to the belief
  that Jesus was a pacifist.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Ja 20 ‘18 360w


=RILEY, JAMES WHITCOMB.= Name of Old Glory. il *$1.25 Bobbs 811 17-17072

  A collection of James Whitcomb Riley’s poems of patriotism, with an
  appreciation of the poet by Booth Tarkington. Only three of the twenty
  selections are in the familiar Indiana dialect—“The old man and Jim,”
  “Thoughts on the late war,” and “Decoration day on the place.”

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:108 Jl ‘17


=RILEY, W.= Way of the winepress. *$1.50 (2c) Putnam

  “This is the story of the firm of Messrs Middleton, weavers, in a
  Yorkshire town and in a village of the Dales; but, though the
  vicissitudes of the business are vividly told as from a personal
  experience, yet the core of the chronicle is in the inner vicissitudes
  of David Middleton and those who by fate or his own impulse have been
  gathered round him. Chief amongst these are the story teller, Louis,
  and the slum girl, Victoria Smith, both of whom are characters well
  worth studying, and both form contrasts not only to each other but to
  the stern impetuosity of David. ... David, tender and even quixotic at
  heart, accepts every reverse as a direct discipline from God. ... ‘The
  way of the winepress’ must be passed unaided and alone, and no human
  counsel of affection dare soften it. Contrasted with this disciple of
  the wrath of God is the unorthodox disciple of the love of God,
  Truman, who opens the doors of learning to Louis and Victoria, and in
  the end opens the door of love to David.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)
  The action takes place more than thirty years ago.

  “‘The way of the winepress is the way of loving sacrifice,’ and it
  becomes, if the author is to be believed, a way of joy for all who
  tread it.”

         =N Y Times= 22:388 O 7 ‘17 270w

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:120 My ‘17 70w

  “The background of the book, wherein a number of simple and some very
  delightful characters have their place, is full of reflection. The
  plot is small and at times almost oddly simple, but there is an
  unstrained human interest in the characters and their setting which
  gives to the whole some of that gentle dignity which the writer has
  found amongst the ample hills and woods and streams where his scenes
  are laid.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p32 Ja 18 ‘17 500w


=RINDER, FRANK=, comp. Royal Scottish academy, 1826-1916. il *42s
Maclehose & sons, Glasgow 708.2

  “The chief part of this massive volume consists of a complete list of
  works by Raeburn and by members (honorary included) and associates of
  the Royal Scottish academy exhibited between the years 1808 and 1916
  at the exhibitions held by the institutions which preceded the academy
  and those of the academy itself from 1827 onwards, and in this list a
  special note is made of any works that have passed into public
  galleries. The list has been compiled under the direction of Mr Frank
  Rinder with the sanction of the president and council, and a narrative
  filling nearly a hundred pages, tracing the origin and development of
  the academy, is contributed by Mr W. D. McKay, one of its principal
  officers.” (Int Studio) Mr Rinder also contributes an essay.

  “If Mr Rinder’s task does not evoke from the living all the gratitude
  which its accomplishment deserves, he may be sure that in years to
  come there will always be some who in profiting by his labours will
  not fail to acknowledge their indebtedness.”

         =Int Studio= 61:144 My ‘17 300w

  “It is a pity that this useful book could not have been produced in a
  more convenient form. A quarto of nearly 500 pages is difficult to
  handle.”

 *       =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p116 Mr 8 ‘17 600w


=RINEHART, MRS MARY (ROBERTS).= Altar of freedom. *50c (12c) Houghton
355.7 17-14707

  An appeal to mothers to sacrifice their sons willingly on “the altar
  of freedom.” “Personal service,” the author says, “is not rolling
  bandages for the other woman’s son.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:20 O ‘17

  “She has herself been to the war countries and was allowed to see far
  more than most Americans have seen of what war has meant. ... She
  writes emphatically of the necessity of proper training for the
  soldier.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 250w

  “Mary Roberts Rinehart writes whereof she knows when in ‘The altar of
  freedom’ she tells the mothers of this land why and how their sons
  must enter this war. One of her sons has gone, the other two will go
  if, when they are old enough, they are needed. She has seen the war
  close at hand and her unflinching words are born not of theory and
  imagination, but of facts.”

       + =Ind= 91:76 Jl 14 ‘17 70w

  “The book is very direct, very quiet, very moving. And it is simple
  and patriotic and brave.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:197 My 20 ‘17 270w

  “Article in the Saturday Evening Post April 21, but more usable in
  this little book form.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:213 Jl ‘17 50w


=RINEHART, MRS MARY (ROBERTS).= Bab: a sub-deb. il *$1.40 (2c) Doran
17-14952

  Bab, the sub-debutante, tells her own story, describing most
  touchingly the sorrows of a girl whose family still looks on her as a
  child. Coming home for her Christmas holidays, Bab, who is seventeen,
  realizes the tragic position of a younger sister. She is snubbed and
  patronized, until, moved by desperation and a desire to make herself
  seem of importance, she invents a lover and a love affair, with
  violets addressed to herself and a photograph of an unknown young man
  to give a touch of reality to the fiction. The results are all that
  she desires, and more. This is the first episode of the book. There
  are five in all, including extracts from Bab’s diary.

  “Some have appeared in the Saturday Evening Post. Read a little at a
  time.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:451 Jl ‘17

  “An attempt to picture in a humorous manner the young American girl of
  the same age as Mr Tarkington’s hero. But it is not nearly so simple,
  so subtle or so true to life as its prototype, and the pleasant
  domestic charm of ‘Seventeen’ is absent from its pages. ... You feel
  the lack of a pleasant attitude.” J. F. S.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 9 ‘17 470w

  “The stilted English in which she expresses her ‘lofty thoughts’ while
  amusing lends a touch of artificiality to the stories.”

     + — =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 70w

       + =Dial= 63:73 Jl 19 ‘17 70w

  “This is a book that mothers and fathers of girls ought to read, for
  it will help to enlighten them. Also, they, and all others, will find
  it the most clever and amusing of all Mrs Rinehart’s books.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:213 Je 3 ‘17 670w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:650 O ‘17 30w

  “A lively and often humorous, but artificial picture of the adolescent
  school girl.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 250w


=RINEHART, MRS MARY (ROBERTS).= Long live the king! il *$1.50 (1c)
Houghton 17-24814

  This romantic tale reminds the reader both of Hope’s “Prisoner of
  Zenda” and of Mrs Burnett’s “Lost prince.” Prince Ferdinand William
  Otto, the ten year old hero, is a dear little boy, whose three great
  desires when he becomes king are that he may have a dog, that his
  cousin Hedwig may marry the man she loves, and that he, Ferdinand
  William Otto, may be “a good king like Abraham Lincoln.” The love
  interest in the story is supplied by the Princess Hedwig, Lieutenant
  Nikky Larisch, and Karl, king of Karnia. A mild revolutionary flavor
  is given by the “Committee of ten.”

  “Exciting, wholesome and will be popular.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:98 D ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:342 N ‘17 40w

  “The essential touch which makes the charm of the story lies in the
  character of the little Otto.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 24 ‘17 630w

       + =Cath World= 106:552 Ja ‘18 130w

         =Dial= 63:598 D 6 ‘17 110w

  “There has never been a better picture of the cruel contrast between
  court life and the heart of youth than this tale of a prince in a
  petty European monarchy who tries to extract a little boyish fun from
  a choking atmosphere of foreign intrigue, Nihilist conspiracy,
  ceremonious etiquet and cold-blooded statecraft. ... All of the
  characters of the book are real human beings.”

       + =Ind= 92:108 O 13 ‘17 340w

  “It may be described as a Zenda story ‘with a difference.’ It lacks
  the usual conquering Anglo-Saxon, his nearest representative being a
  small American boy who inadvertently gives a happy turn to affairs at
  the critical moment. Here is a tale of humor as well as sentiment:
  towards the end it imposes a somewhat larger burden upon the
  good-humored credulity of the reader than the traffic need be called
  upon to bear.”

     + — =Nation= 105:486 N 1 ‘17 340w

  “The tale is highly romantic, it possesses a complicated plot, there
  is much and constant action, and if there is little humor, its loss is
  made good by much sentiment. ... The author has written a story that
  is different from any of the others of that sort, and has made it
  plausible, interesting, and appealing. The figure of the Crown Prince
  is particularly appealing in its wistfulness, its lovableness, and its
  real manliness.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:361 S 23 ‘17 710w

  “Otto is a natural and friendly chap even if he is a prince, and his
  adventures with his American boy acquaintance are jolly.”

       + =Outlook= 117:184 O 3 ‘17 50w

  “An engaging but rather pathetic story.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 28 ‘17 270w


=RIVES, HALLIE ERMINIE (MRS POST WHEELER).= Long lane’s turning. il
*$1.50 (1½c) Dodd 17-22567

  Henry Sevier, the brilliant young southern lawyer, knew that his
  besetting sin was his dependence upon stimulants at times of crisis.
  Only one other knew this—Cameron Craig, the head of the liquor trust
  and Sevier’s rival for the hand of Echo Allen. Craig had another
  weapon—an old letter, the publication of which could bring scandal
  upon the Allen family. How Craig trades upon these two secrets and
  enmeshes Sevier in a net, how Sevier wins out both from his own
  weakness and the ruthlessness of his rival, is told in a series of
  vivid chapters.

  “Published in the Red Book under title, ‘The heart of a man.’”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:28 O ‘17

  “Drink is the theme underlying the somewhat artificial structure of
  ‘The long lane’s turning.’ It is a story of romantic contrivance based
  upon the working out of a preconceived idea. ... Yet whatever
  flimsiness may be discerned in the plot there is none in the style.”
  H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 46:98 S ‘17 300w

  “A melodramatic temperance novel, so far as its style and
  characterization are concerned. ... The story moves at a brisk pace,
  and is entertaining.”

         =N Y Times= 22:343 S 16 ‘17 220w

  “Melodrama with a vengeance.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p13 Ja 20 ‘18 290w


=ROBBINS, EDWARD J.=, comp. Universal drill manual. il *$1 Sherwood co.
355 17-16555

  A complete résumé of the really necessary and important points which
  should be the common knowledge of every private, compiled from
  strictly official sources by a captain in the Major officers reserve
  corps, with illustrations from the same sources.

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p17 Jl ‘17 50w


=ROBERTSON, ERIC SUTHERLAND.= Bible’s prose epic of Eve and her sons.
*$1.75 (3½c) Putnam 222 (Eng ed A17-80)

  The author has made a study of those parts of Genesis attributed to
  the authorship of “J.” The opening of Genesis is the work of “P.” J’s
  narrative breaks in with the fourth verse of the second chapter. Mr
  Robertson says, “The writer known as J has a narrower outlook on the
  cosmos than P, but it is a more human, a more sunny outlook. This
  writer or editor is, like Herodotus, a gatherer of legends at old
  shrines.” The text of the “J” narrative is given in an appendix.

  “What we know is that the book tells us what would have been Mr
  Robertson’s mind if he himself had written the ‘J’ document. And that
  is enough to make the book like a charming work of fiction.” G. LaP.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 900w

  “On reading the book, one gets the impression that all this
  paraphernalia of scholarship is merely a passport to recommend the
  book to modern readers, while the author’s real interest lies in
  moralizing and exegesis of the time-honored variety which allows one
  to deduce anything under the sun from no matter what text.”

     – + =Dial= 63:350 O 11 ‘17 500w

  “There is no doubt that the book is very good reading, partly, we
  think, because Mr Robertson writes so very well. The story as he tells
  it reminds us very much of the Bible, partly again because of the
  identity of the names.”

         =Spec= 118:20 Ja 6 ‘17 650w

  “Mr Robertson brings to bear on his task an alert and unconventional
  intelligence.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p323 Jl 6 ‘16 180w

  “Literary criticism should welcome in this book an original, gallant,
  and successful attempt to turn to the account of poetry some of the
  results of scholarship in a field where it has been said science was
  destroying everything spiritual and inspiring. ... Mr Robertson brings
  out the inherent romance and the inherent primitive theology in these
  old tales. We get from his book a sense of geographical values which
  readers of the Bible too seldom feel. ... He has based his
  speculations upon sound scholarship.” G: M. Harper

       + =Yale R= n s 6:415 Ja ‘17 700w


=ROBERTSON, LIONEL, and O’DONNELL, THOMAS CLAY.= Healthful house. il $2
Good health pub. co. 640 17-16902

  “The authors of this book have not confined themselves to details of
  hygiene and sanitation, as these terms are commonly understood. They
  have attempted rather to emphasize ‘the health importance of beautiful
  colors and beautiful lines and masses, beautiful wall and floor
  coverings, equally with fresh air and light—in short, to present to
  the reader a house that is healthful because it satisfies the demands
  of hygienic and esthetic sense alike.’”—R of Rs

  “The discussion of interior fitments is sane and informative.”

       + =Nation= 105:608 N 29 ‘17 220w

         =R of Rs= 56:332 S ‘17 70w

       + =St Louis= 15:369 O ‘17 20w


=ROBINSON, CYRIL EDWARD.= Days of Alkibiades; with a foreword by Prof.
C. W. Oman. il *$1.50 Longmans 913.38 (Eng ed 17-26255)

  “One of the criticisms most frequently made on the teaching of Greek
  and Latin is that it teaches the pupil to deal very cleverly with
  words, but tells him nothing about things. ... Mr Robinson’s book
  represents an attempt—and a surprisingly successful attempt—to provide
  the modern schoolboy and general reader with the background of things,
  for lack of which classical teaching in the past has so often been
  dull and dead. ... The result is a series of sketches of the various
  phases of Greek life which are not only lightly and charmingly
  written, but also embody on innumerable points of detail the result of
  the latest researches.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

         =A L A Bkl= 13:311 Ap ‘17

  “The book is an entertaining mixture of known facts and acknowledged
  romance.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Mr 24 ‘17 250w

  “The book reads like a romance. A boy will learn more from these
  sketches, as the author modestly styles them, than from many a
  ponderous, old-fashioned textbook.”

       + =Cath World= 105:410 Je ‘17 200w

       + =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 60w

  “Gilds the pill of Greek antiquities more attractively, than does
  Bekker’s ‘Charikles’ or the ‘Alkibiades’ of C. H. Bromely. Out of
  actual or possible scenes from the life of Alcibiades he has composed
  a sequence of readable chapters that covers the chief topics of
  Athenian private and public life strung on a thread of story that adds
  interest without distracting the reader’s attention. ... Many of the
  descriptions are admirably clear and vivid. ... The illustrations
  based on the author’s sketches, whatever their artistic merits, are
  well adapted to the purpose of visualizing and schematizing precisely
  the information that the reader needs and the student may remember.
  They cannot, of course, take the place of the two-hundred and
  sixty-three authentic reproductions from the monuments in Professor
  Gulick’s ‘Greek antiquities.’ The book is one of the best companions
  to the reading of the Greek classics that we have met in many a day.
  It makes Greek life ‘seem real.’”

       + =Nation= 105:266 S 6 ‘17 500w

         =Pratt= p32 Jl ‘17 40w

  “He is sound in scholarship; he bases his scenes on actual events and
  anecdotes. ... His style is agreeable, but a little elaborate.”

       + =Sat R= 122:420 O 28 ‘16 220w

  “Our only serious criticism of his book is that, while unconventional
  in his scheme, he is almost too conscientious in the use of his
  material.”

 *     + =Spec= 117:478 O 21 ‘16 1100w

  “Mr Robinson is not only a very careful and well-read scholar, but he
  has made the rare imaginative effort to realize his knowledge; and he
  has laid the reader under an additional obligation by being modest
  enough not to flaunt it. ... A volume like this is a challenge, not a
  ‘work of reference.’ The value of the book is enhanced by some skilful
  pieces of translation and a series of drawings.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p16 Ja 11 ‘17 450w


=ROBINSON, EDGAR EUGENE, and WEST, VICTOR J.=[2] Foreign policy of
Woodrow Wilson, 1913-1917. *$1.75 Macmillan 327.73 17-31893

  The aim of the authors has been “to present an account of the
  development of the policy followed by Woodrow Wilson in dealing with
  the foreign relations of the United States during the years 1913-1917,
  and to provide in convenient form the more important statements of the
  president and his secretaries of state in announcing and carrying
  forward that policy.” The authors point to a fuller understanding of
  the president’s policy to be gained from an examination of the earlier
  period of his administration and furnish ample excerpts from his
  speeches and messages. The three divisions of the subject treated are:
  The development of the policy; More important events in American
  foreign relations; More important utterances of the administration.

  “The treatment of the subject is both comprehensive and detailed. It
  is also clearly reasoned and judicially presented. For the book is in
  no sense the work of uncritical, enthusiastic admiration. ... The book
  must be especially recommended to those casual readers and superficial
  thinkers who allow themselves to be unduly influenced by headlines in
  newspapers and the flippant comment of ‘the man in the street.’ The
  work deserves every praise, also, for the clear succinct logical
  manner in which its analytical discussion is carried on. Every help is
  afforded the reader for intelligent investigation of the subject.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:1 Ja 6 ‘18 1950w

  “The work is an admirable piece of bookmaking, and its reference value
  is great.”

       + =Outlook= 118:114 Ja 16 ‘18 100w


=ROBINSON, EDWARD LEVI.= 1816-1916; one hundred years of savings
banking. 50c Am. bankers’ assn. 332 17-13470

  “This little volume, comprising twenty-nine pages of text and sixty
  pages of bibliography, has been prepared under the direction of the
  Savings bank section of the American bankers’ association. The text is
  written by Mr Edward L. Robinson, vice-president of a savings bank in
  Baltimore, and the bibliography prepared by Marian A. Glenn, librarian
  of the American bankers’ association [and Ina Clement]. ... The topics
  covered by the bibliography are as follows: Thrift and savings;
  Individual thrift; Domestic thrift; Evidences of thriftlessness;
  Economics of thrift; Industrial thrift; Business thrift; Banking
  thrift; National thrift; International thrift; Thrift agencies;
  Nation-wide thrift movement inaugurated to celebrate centennial
  anniversary of savings banks in America.”—J Pol Econ

  “The volume is chiefly valuable for the extensive bibliography.”

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:760 Jl ‘17 160w

  “This is a timely little book. The bibliography, covering the whole
  subject of thrift and a number of allied topics, is not altogether
  successful.” B. L.

     + — =Survey= 39:74 O 20 ‘17 360w


=ROBINSON, EDWIN ARLINGTON.= Merlin. *$1.25 Macmillan 811 17-8576

  Mr Robinson has retold the story of Arthur, Merlin and Vivian,
  altering the outlines of the traditional tale very little, but reading
  new meanings into the situation. He has chosen for the time of his
  narrative, the eve of the downfall of Arthur’s court. Merlin, after
  the ten years spent with Vivian in Broceliande, has returned with the
  purpose of again lending Arthur his counsel, but in thinking out the
  problem he comes to see that he must turn back without seeing the
  king, leaving him to the fate he has prepared for himself.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:121 Ja ‘18

  “His people are as strongly individualized and speak as naturally as
  though their author had been putting them into a novel instead of into
  a narrative poem of mediæval setting. This brings their problems much
  closer to the reader. ... Mr Robinson has always deservedly been
  placed by critics among the few of our really great poets. He is a
  very complete master of his art.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 31 ‘17 550w

  “On the whole, in spite of Mr Robinson’s literary power, we prefer the
  terrors of ‘mid-Victorian morality’ and the symbolism of the ‘Idylls
  of the king.’”

     + — =Cath World= 106:255 N ‘17 400w

  “One must feel it was a malicious elf that suggested Arthurian romance
  as a subject for Mr Robinson’s pen. The subject is new to him, but his
  method and manner are unchanged. Subject and method do not harmonize.
  Upon a style which has shaped itself in the delineation of modern
  types of mind—complex, eccentric, intensely individualized—is laid the
  task of depicting certain very unmodern characters which throughout a
  long and august tradition have been treated as simple, conventional,
  naïve. The result, in less skilful hands, would have been
  burlesque. ... Mr Robinson resembles his own Merlin, who has much to
  say about what he has seen and known without giving much notion of
  what it is, and who seems to rely upon our remembrance that he has
  been impressive in other scenes.” Odell Shepard

     – + =Dial= 63:339 O 11 ‘17 1500w

  “It is pleasant to take up Merlin and read as one reads mere
  poetry. ... Mr Robinson in ‘Merlin’ has plainly felt his work in
  Tennyson’s quality. It is clear at once that the style, and often the
  quality, are very like Tennyson’s. In ‘Merlin’ there is more
  smoothness, more expected proportions, leisure and fluency [than in
  much of Mr Robinson’s] previous work and less of that effect of rather
  trenchant rhythm, of brusque acumen and passionate shrewdness, and of
  a kind of analytical excitement for the mind, that have made a
  distinguishing quality in his poetry.” S. Y.

       + =New Repub= 12:250 S 29 ‘17 1650w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 5:78 My ‘17

  “It is not a great poem, though its failure is not intrinsic in its
  subject. The subject simply betrays more openly than a modern one
  certain defects in the author. He has neither the singing magic of the
  old school nor the swift, egotistic vitality of the new. He is a
  respectable poet, but he is heavy.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:313 Ag 26 ‘17 490w

  “The state of the modern world is subtly symbolized in this fine poem,
  which has amazing beauty of texture and ventures a new philosophy.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:660 Je ‘17 90w

  “Of all our modern writers, Mr Robinson most resembles Meredith, never
  in his technique or in his choice of subjects, but in the solidity of
  his work and in the sense of intellectual force. Much of our
  contemporary verse is painfully thin; here the foundations are dug
  deep. ... Each volume of Mr Robinson’s deepens the conviction that he
  is our foremost American poet.” E: B. Reed

       + =Yale R= n s 6:863 Jl ‘17 350w


=ROBINSON, HARRY PERRY.= Turning point; the battle of the Somme. il
*$1.50 (1½c) Dodd 940.91 17-18381

  “This account of the battle of the Somme is written by the official
  correspondent of the London Times. In preparing it he has used his
  dispatches to his paper as a basis, and so has made a consecutive
  narrative of the operations of the British troops in that action. He
  explains that he has made only incidental reference to the
  co-operation of the French troops because he was not sufficiently
  familiar with their share of the battle to write about it. His
  narrative covers the four and a half months from the 1st of July,
  1916, to the middle of November.”—N Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:124 Ja ‘18

  “Mr Robinson has here told the story of the British part in it as well
  as it has yet been done.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:399 O 14 ‘17 260w

  “He strikes his own note, which is a more matter-of-fact note than
  that sounded by Mr Gibbs. ... He can tell either a plain or an
  exciting story lucidly, picturesquely, eloquently, and thrillingly
  when the need is; and where he has to speak of the larger issues, he
  judges soberly. ... The book is full of good stories in all veins, and
  will take its place as a most satisfactory popular history of one of
  the most important episodes of the war.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p208 My 3 ‘17 700w


=ROBINSON, LAWRENCE EUGENE.= Domestic architecture. il *$1.50 Macmillan
728 17-12502

  This book tells how to plan, build and furnish a house and how to
  arrange the grounds. It is illustrated with diagrams, gives a glossary
  of architectural terms, and at the end of each chapter, references for
  further reading.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:437 Jl ‘17

         =Cleveland= p114 S ‘17 60w

  “A non-technical, well-balanced treatment.”

       + =Ind= 90:516 Je 16 ‘17 50w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:110 Jl ‘17 50w

  “An elementary book, useful to those building or remodeling their own
  homes.”

       + =Pratt= p29 O ‘17 10w

  “This book has to do almost altogether with the simple, every-day
  things about the house, and its suggestions are meant as much for the
  owner and builder as for the professional architect.”

         =R of Rs= 56:332 S ‘17 90w

         =St Louis= 15:332 S ‘17 10w


=ROCHE, ARTHUR SOMERS.= Plunder. il *$1.35 (2c) Bobbs 17-9706

  The three richest men in the United States meet together in one room.
  One controls coal, one transportation, one the food supply. An
  agreement is drawn up and their signatures are added. A gust of wind
  flips the paper out of the window! By chance it falls first in

  “The tale is more commonplace and not nearly so ingenious or
  interesting as are ‘Loot’ and ‘Plunder,’ but it is entertaining.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:318 Ag 26 ‘17 320w

  “A sensational story, exciting, but not as carefully wrought out as
  one or two of the author’s previous books.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:64 S 12 ‘17 40w

  “Mr Roche displays much intimacy with the technic of the track and the
  betting ring, and ingeniously bares the methods that may be employed
  in turning racing and betting into dishonest channels. Altogether, it
  is one of the best racing stories that have appeared in a long time.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 320w


=ROCKWELL, FREDERICK FRYE.= Around the year in the garden. il *$1.75
(1½c) Macmillan 635 17-24266

  “A seasonable guide and reminder for work with vegetables, fruits, and
  flowers, and under glass.” (Sub-title) Altho the author begins with
  the first of January and follows the year around, week by week, he
  insists very strongly that gardening can not be done according to any
  such set scheme and warns the reader against following the directions
  of the book blindly. “Let the gardener, then, read this book with a
  diligent eye for such advice and suggestions as he can apply to his
  own problems; ... for the real work, like the profit there may be and
  the pleasure there is sure to be, must belong to the gardener, and
  cannot be put between the covers of a book.” (Introd.) The book is
  designed for the busy man and woman who garden in the spare time
  afforded between other occupations.

         =Cleveland= p124 N ‘17 10w

  “The clearest and most helpful kind of information for the busy man or
  woman who wants to get ready for next year’s gardening.”

       + =Dial= 63:408 O 25 ‘17 70w


=ROGERS, ALLEN=, ed. Elements of industrial chemistry. il *$3 Van
Nostrand 660 16-23460

  “This volume is an abridgment of a larger book entitled ‘Manual of
  industrial chemistry,’ a work which was written by forty eminent
  specialists in chemical engineering. In its almost 500 pages of text
  it covers widely, but perhaps not deeply, the whole field of
  industrial chemistry.”—Coal Age

         =A L A Bkl= 13:277 Mr ‘17

  “The book will be of value chiefly to those who have not affiliated
  themselves with any particular industry and who want a generalized
  view of the whole field.”

       + =Coal Age= 11:641 Ap 7 ‘17 350w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:464 My ‘17 30w

  “The matter is descriptive and not detailed enough to be of value to
  the works chemist, but would be understandable to the average reader
  interested in the subject. ... Dr Rogers is in charge of industrial
  chemistry, Pratt institute, Brooklyn.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ap ‘17 90w


=ROGERS, ALLEN.= Laboratory guide of industrial chemistry. 2d ed il *$2
Van Nostrand 660 17-25806

  “In presenting this thoroughly revised edition, the author has
  endeavored to make the laboratory experiments touch more closely upon
  present-day problems than was possible in the first edition. ... In
  many instances, it will be noticed that the methods are those in
  common use at the present time, and, whenever possible, actual factory
  practice has been followed.” (Preface) Contents: General processes;
  Inorganic preparations; Organic preparations; Dyeing of textile
  fibers; Pigments and lakes; Driers, varnishes, paints and stains; Soap
  and allied products; Leather manufacture; Wood fiber, pulp and paper;
  Useful data.


=ROGERS, JULIA ELLEN.= Trees worth knowing. (Little nature lib.; Worth
knowing ser.) il *$1.60 (2c) Doubleday 582 17-13206

  The introduction is addressed directly to the beginner in tree study,
  for whom this book has been prepared. Part 1 is a discussion of The
  life of the trees, and the remainder of the book is devoted to
  descriptions for purposes of identification. There are sixteen
  illustrations in color and numerous others in black and white.

  “A compromise between the author’s comprehensive ‘Tree book’ and her
  small ‘Tree Guide,’ recently published. Of a convenient size to carry
  about for purposes of identification.”

       + =Dial= 64:82 Ja 17 ‘18 80w

       + =N Y Times= 22:254 Jl 8 ‘17 200w


=ROGERS, LINDSAY.= America’s case against Germany. *$1.50 Dutton 940.91
17-19161

  “A good, brief account of the origin and development of the
  controversy which became the immediate cause of war between the United
  States and Germany. The author furnishes in this book a chronological
  record of the Wilson policy. His method is narrative and explanatory,
  not critical or defensive. ... He treats the points of international
  law involved, briefly and untechnically, particularly with regard to
  the submarine as a new weapon, the status of armed merchant ships, the
  problem of munition exports, and the difference between the English
  and the German ‘blockade.’”—R of Rs

  “Clear and non-technical, it explains many misjudged and
  misrepresented points at issue.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:43 N ‘17

  “The author of this volume is convinced that there is a real need for
  the average loyal American to understand that the legal grounds of our
  contentions with Germany are as much of the code of international law
  as the moral grounds are of the ethical code of Christendom. ... The
  book is written in untechnical language, but the case is argued with
  the care of one who has mastered international law, and the result
  that our position is legally correct is fully proved.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 580w

         =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 40w

         =N Y Call= p15 S 2 ‘17 400w

       + =N Y Times= 22:305 Ag 19 ‘17 800w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:764 N ‘17 40w

       + =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 110w


=ROHMER, SAX, pseud. (ARTHUR SARSFIELD WARD).= Hand of Fu-Manchu (Eng
title, Si-Fan mysteries). *$1.35 (2c) McBride 17-14178

  Nayland Smith and Dr Petrie again take the field against the terrible
  Dr Fu-Manchu. They are enforced by the Scotland Yard police; he by the
  mysterious and far-reaching organization known as the Si-Fan. The
  field is London, from its foreign embassies to its lowest underworld.
  The weapons employed by the Asiatics in their machinations range from
  animal magnetism to the crudest of missiles. The peril that threatens
  is the wholesale slaughter of the white race and the domination of the
  world by the yellow. The book is the fourth of a series of which the
  first “The insidious Dr Fu-Manchu” was followed by “The yellow claw,”
  and “The return of Dr Fu-Manchu.”

  “Of the experience they go through in these and other places, it would
  be unfair to give the reader even the faintest hint. Suffice it to
  say, that if he be a reader with a liking for thrills and able to put
  an extinguisher on his sense of probabilities, he will do well to
  choose a comfortable chair, make sure that there is plenty of oil in
  his lamp, and plunge forthwith into the mysterious occurrences and
  deadly perils brought about by ‘The hand of Fu-Manchu.’”

         =N Y Times= 22:230 Je 17 ‘17 320w

  “The story comprises a succession of episodes which could be easily
  adapted to a thrilling movie serial. ... The author is skilful in
  creating a state of suspense, even though neglectful of the rule that
  the miraculous should be fortified by plausibility.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 250w

  “The reader gallops through a number of rather inconsequent scenes in
  which poisonous flowers, kidnapped surgeons, hypnotic mandarins,
  marmosets, disguised assassins, treacherous Greeks, and secret
  passages play slightly unconvincing parts, aided largely by an easy
  incapacity on the part of the hero which is unrivalled by the most
  fatuous efforts of Dr Watson.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p238 My 17 ‘17 120w


=ROLAND, pseud.= Future of militarism. *2s 6d T. Fisher Unwin, London
940.91

                                                       (Eng ed 16-23382)

  “In this volume ‘Roland’ counters Oliver’s ‘Ordeal by battle,’ a
  denunciation of British unpreparedness, by arguing that preparedness
  could have had but one of two immediate goals—either war against
  Germany or an alliance with her. From this he contends that
  preparedness for war must inevitably lead to war sooner or later ...
  and that the sole means to secure an enduring peace is a league of the
  allied nations to found among themselves an absolute pacifist policy,
  and until such time as Germany becomes sane enough to accept it
  whole-heartily, to enforce this policy upon her.”—Ind

         =Ind= 91:109 Jl 21 ‘17 170w

  “It does not clearly state its case or present its arguments. Instead,
  it heaps scorn and irony upon Mr Frederick Scott Oliver and turns what
  might be a reasonable and readable counter-argument into a silly and
  vituperative personal attack. ... Aside from the irrelevant question
  of one’s sympathy with them or with what he calls ‘the Oliverians,’
  this book is good where the author states impersonally and coherently
  what he believes, and bad where he does not. Which is to say that a
  small part of ‘The failure of militarism’ is definite and readable.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:35 F 4 ‘17 550w

  “We should have gladly parted with scores of controversial pages, not
  wanting in acrimony, for the fulfillment of that which the chapters
  ‘The way out of militarism’ and ‘The psychology of militarism’ promise
  but do not carry out. ... The whole book, or over-grown pamphlet,
  written with no small ability, leaves an impression of wasted or
  misapplied labour. ... ‘Roland’ can give us something better.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p458 S 28 ‘16 730w


=ROLFE, AMY LUCILE.= Interior decoration for the small home. il *$1.25
(5c) Macmillan 747 17-9832

  A book on house decoration and furnishing for people of moderate
  means. The house planned by the professional decorator does not meet
  with the author’s approval, for it cannot have individuality, but she
  realizes that the amateur who is to do his own decorating must be
  guided by general principles and it is for him that this book has been
  prepared. There are chapters on: Walls and ceilings; Windows and their
  decorative treatment; The finishing of floors; Domestic rugs and
  carpets; A brief history of furniture; Modern period furniture and its
  use; Furniture of modern design, etc. The author is instructor in home
  economics in the University of Montana.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:47 N ‘17

  “A simply schemed and simply expressed book like this, that is also
  sound, comprehensive and sufficiently detailed, should fall in fertile
  ground.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 250w

         =Cleveland= p114 S ‘17 20w

  “A neat summary of such parts of several works on interior decoration
  as apply to the small house is the substance of Miss Rolfe’s
  unpretentious but useful little book. Her expositions read like
  college lectures revised for a larger audience. They will help to
  bring many middle-class Americans to the next plane of appreciation.”

       + =Nation= 105:607 N 29 ‘17 210w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:75 My ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:652 O ‘17 10w

       + =R of Rs= 57:216 F ‘18 70w

         =St Louis= 15:333 S ‘17 30w

  “A good supplement to Quinn’s ‘Planning and furnishing the home’ and
  Daniels’ ‘Furnishing of a modest home.’ Good illustrations taken from
  Good Furniture.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:155 My ‘17 60w


=ROLLAND, ROMAIN.= Beethoven, tr. by B. Constance Hull. il *$1.50 (3½c)
Holt 17-12724

  “I do not give the name hero to those who have triumphed by infinite
  thought or by sheer physical strength—but only to those made great by
  goodness of heart,” says Romain Rolland, and it is in this spirit that
  he writes of Beethoven, “the most heroic soul in modern art.” The book
  includes in addition to M. Rolland’s account of Beethoven’s life, a
  selection from his letters, a copy of his will, and an analysis of his
  symphonies and sonatas made by A. Eaglefield Hull. There is also an
  introduction by Edward Carpenter.

  “Contains a bibliography (10p.), a classification of pianoforte
  sonatas, and a complete list of Beethoven’s works (12p.).”

       + =A L A= Bkl 13:388 Je ‘17

       + =Ath= p104 F ‘17 40w

  “Altogether one of the most valuable works in music of the present
  year.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 7 ‘17 350w

  “The present volume is rather a disappointment; of its 244 pages only
  54 are given to M. Rolland’s sketch of the composer’s life. As a
  character study it is far from satisfying, containing nothing new in
  fact or interpretation. ... The chief value of the book is as an
  introduction to the study of Beethoven, and in this respect the copy
  of his will, a selection of his letters, a bibliography, and the
  complete list of his compositions are useful.”

     – + =Dial= 63:30 Je 28 ‘17 150w

       + =Lit D= 54:1710 Je 2 ‘17 250w

  Reviewed by H: T. Finck

     + — =Nation= 105:546 N 15 ‘17 90w

  Reviewed by Paul Rosenfeld

         =New Repub= 11:57 My 12 ‘17 2600w

         =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 30w

  “The intimate quality of the work is unusual. Rolland brings us the
  living Beethoven. The philosophic basis of the musician’s life is
  brought out in order to explain his profound and spiritualized music.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:445 O ‘17 100w

  “The title-page reveals its composite character, and an examination of
  its contents shows that M. Romain Rolland’s contribution only occupies
  about a quarter of the whole. This is his charmingly enthusiastic but
  somewhat uncritical essay on Beethoven, which has been competently
  translated by Miss B. Constance Hull. ... The new matter is thus
  confined to Dr. Eaglefield Hull’s analyses, which have the merit of
  brevity and sum up the outstanding qualities of some works pleasantly
  enough. Unfortunately the editor’s style is undistinguished, and at
  times not even grammatical.”

       + =Spec= 118:138 F 3 ‘17 1400w

  “M. Rolland writes as a worshiper, but his worship is discreet. He
  paints a true picture, even though he leaves out details of
  Beethoven’s eccentricity, and the reader receives an inspiration from
  the glowing pages, and this in spite of infelicities in the
  translation, which, nevertheless, is not without spirit.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 25 ‘17 400w

  “We become absorbed in this book mainly because of the author’s
  driving power, the way he arrays his facts and uses them to impel his
  argument. ... The second half of the book consists of a Baedeker to
  the symphonies, sonatas, violin sonatas, and quartets. A good many
  points of interest are touched upon, and the writer has looked well
  round his subject. But as a plan it falls between two stools.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p16 Ja 11 ‘17 750w


=ROLLINS, MONTGOMERY.= Village pest. il *$1.35 (2c) Lothrop 17-23754

  This story of a lively boy of thirty years ago has many of the marks
  of autobiography, and the author tells us that the incidents are drawn
  from life. David is the young son of a United States senator and his
  time is divided between Washington and a New England village, either
  place affording him a fruitful field for mischief. David has two
  intimate friends, one a village boy, one a Washington chum who spends
  a joyous summer with him in New England. David has another friend,
  also, a yellow mongrel dog named Alfred.

  “Founded on fact the escapades will amuse this generation of elders as
  much as they must have exasperated and entertained David’s elders.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:98 D ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 1 ‘17 350w

  “The pictures in ‘The village pest’ are almost as funny as the story
  itself. Young people will enjoy Montgomery Rollins’ account of David’s
  pranks.”

       + =Ind= 92:449 D 1 ‘17 24w

  “Although one rather wonders how his longsuffering parents managed to
  keep out of the insane asylum, David’s pranks are very amusing—to read
  about.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:349 S 16 ‘17 250w


=ROLT-WHEELER, FRANCIS WILLIAM.= Boy with the U.S. weather men. (U.S.
service ser.) il *$1.35 (2c) Lothrop 551 17-24855

  This story, dealing with blizzard, tornado and flood, is not the least
  exciting of this series for boys. As the author truly says, “There is
  no battle greater than the battle with the weather, which is both our
  enemy and our ally.” The story opens with a Mississippi flood. Ross
  and Anton, two boy chums who barely escape from the dangers of the
  flood, become interested in the work of the weather bureau in
  forecasting storms and enlist as volunteer observers. Like some of the
  other books of the series this one is a call to service: “High, high
  in the atmosphere, is a world all unexplored, where no man can dwell;
  where, as yet, no human-made instrument has reached. This unknown
  world calls for explorers, it calls for adventure, it calls for daring
  and patient work.” It is the author’s hope that some of the boys who
  read the book will answer the call.

       + =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 50w

  “The illustrations are authoritative photographs.”

       + =Lit D= 55:57 D 8 ‘17 90w

  “A story full of thrills and appealing interest told in a way to be of
  great educational value.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 120w


=ROLT-WHEELER, FRANCIS WILLIAM.= Polar hunters. il *$1.35 (2c) Lothrop
17-13187

  This is the second volume in the Museum series. The author describes
  life within the Arctic circle and gives an account of Peary’s
  discovery of the pole. The boy hero, who is called Kood-shoo, appears
  at first to be an Eskimo. He has grown up as a member of the Smith
  Sound tribe, and his ways are their ways, but when the Peary
  expedition comes to the region, the white men recognize in the boy
  traits that are not characteristic of the Eskimo. Eventually the two
  “magics” in Kood-shoo’s possession lead to his identification.

         =Outlook= 116:232 Je 6 ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:401 N ‘17 20w

  “No boy can read the story without having his imagination fired.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 130w


=ROLT-WHEELER, FRANCIS WILLIAM.=[2] Wonder of war in the air. il *$1.35
(2c) Lothrop 623.7 17-30275

  “To give the boys of the United States a fair idea of what an aviator
  must learn, how an aviator must live, in what appalling perils an
  aviator must risk his life, to build up in our boys a still greater
  admiration for the men who hold the honor of the nation in their
  hands, and to urge the heroic and high-spirited young Americans to a
  higher love for their country and eagerness to serve it, is the aim
  and purpose of the author.” (Preface) As usual in his books, he has
  devised a story of more or less definite plot as a means for conveying
  his information.

  “Packed with information, mostly accurate and brought down to within a
  very few months.”

     + — =Lit D= 56:40 Ja 12 ‘18 250w

  “The author is doing a useful work by making his books accurately
  instructive as well as entertaining.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 160w


=ROOF, KATHARINE METCALF.=[2] Life and art of William Merritt Chase. il
*$4 Scribner 17-30892

  “For many years before his death last year, William Merritt Chase was
  regarded as perhaps the most characteristic of American painters; and
  Miss Roof was appointed by him to write the story of his life. This
  she has done in cordial cooperation and with the assistance of the
  artist’s family. With the inclusion of many letters and personal
  reminiscences and much illustrative material she tells the romantic
  story of Chase’s discontented boyhood in the West, his escape to
  Paris, and apprenticeship to art, and his subsequent crowded and
  picturesque career in New York. The work contains an introduction by
  Alice Gerson Chase and many reproductions of the artist’s works.”—Lit
  D

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:167 F ‘18

  “Her book abounds in piquant anecdotes. Somewhere she speaks with
  scorn of the inadequacy of the literary man to understand art; this is
  perhaps a sort of boomerang; for her style is far from literary. The
  volume will be prized by all art-students and especially by those who
  remember the genial artist.” N. H. D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 16 ‘18 1700W

  “This authorized biography, therefore, is much more than the life of a
  man; it is in many ways a history of the American spirit in art during
  the last generation.”

       + =Lit D= 55:51 D 8 ‘17 170w

  “Very entertaining and well balanced book. Its pleasant,
  straightforward style is not at all inconsistent with the fact that Mr
  Chase chose Miss Roof because she had a painter’s and not a writer’s
  attitude toward art.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:31 Ja 27 ‘18 1050w

  “Though clogged with unimportant and unnecessary detail, the text will
  be read with interest for the sake of the pictures of the painter’s
  early struggles and later achievements. Some of the anecdotes relative
  to Chase’s experiences with Whistler are delicious.”

     + — =Outlook= 118:194 Ja 30 ‘18 110w

  “A sympathetic but hardly adequate biography. Though a considerably
  larger volume than the Inness, it fails to give as clear a picture of
  the man or as definite an idea of his art. The author was at one time
  a pupil, and she gives an interesting account of his methods of
  teaching.”

     + — =Wis Lib Bul= 14:31 Ja ‘18 880w


Rookie rhymes. il *75c Harper 811.08 17-25361

  “A collection of rhymes, parodies, jingles and songs written by
  members of the 1st and 2d Provisional training regiments for officers,
  at Plattsburg, N. Y., during their encampment from May 15th to August
  15th, 1917, accompanied by line drawings. ... About one-third of the
  verse is written to be sung to familiar tunes.”—R of Rs

  “More pep than poetry is contained in this volume of songs and
  parodies. As the expression of the mental attitude of men torn away
  from the ordinary vocations of peace and in training for sanguinary
  conflict, it has a certain psychological interest. Two or three are
  real poems.” N. H. D.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 17 ‘17 390w

  “Interesting chiefly for their high spirits and fun.”

     + — =Cleveland= p5 Ja ‘18 60w

  “The Plattsburg rhymes are, in the main, mediocre. ... A few of the
  verses, such as ‘The Plattsburg code’ rise distinctly out of the
  mediocre rut; but too often the motif is nothing more important than
  the relative superiority of company A over company B.” Clement Wood

       — =NY Call= p15 O 21 ‘17 100w

  “Well worth the attention of our army and navy students and their
  friends.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:371 S 30 ‘17 420w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:647 O ‘17

  “As a bit of fun to drive away homesickness, it will undoubtedly find
  its way into many soldiers’ kits.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:442 O ‘17 90w


=ROOSEVELT, THEODORE.= Foes of our own household. *$1.50 (2½c) Doran 304
17-25965

  Mr Roosevelt thinks that “in the long run we have less to fear from
  foes without than from foes within. The men who oppose preparedness in
  our military and our industrial life; the business or political
  corruptionist or reactionary and the reckless demagogue who is his
  nominal opponent; the man of wealth and greed who cares for nothing
  but profits, and the sinister creature who plays upon and inflames the
  passions of envy and violence: the hard materialist, the
  self-indulgent lover of ease and pleasure, and the silly
  sentimentalist—all these are the permanent foes of our own household.”
  (Foreword) Contents: The instant need; and the ultimate need; Must we
  be brayed in a mortar before our folly depart from us?; The children
  of the crucible; Washington and Lincoln; A square deal in law
  enforcement; Industrial justice; Social justice; Socialism versus
  social reform; The farmer; The word of Micah; The parasite woman;
  Birth reform. “Chapters 2, 7, 10 and 11 are based on articles that
  have appeared in the Metropolitan; chapter 8 on an article that has
  appeared in the Outlook; chapter 3 on a speech delivered on the Fourth
  of July last.” (Appendix A.) There are seven appendices. Appendix B is
  a letter urging that loyal Americans be not discriminated against
  because of their parentage; C deals with Mr Roosevelt’s speech
  concerning the East St Louis riots; D with the conscientious objector;
  while G gives the correspondence with the President and Secretary of
  war concerning Mr Roosevelt’s offer to raise a division for foreign
  service.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:77 D ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 24 ‘17 550w

       + =Cath World= 106:543 Ja ‘18 350w

  “Even when Mr Roosevelt’s mind is in a state of general conflagration,
  as it has been much of the time since 1908, it seems to continue more
  or less automatically its two-handed motions of balance and
  compensation. And so his new miscellany, ‘The foes of our own
  household’ falls easily into two parts. Just as one of them was
  written by a judicious, progressive, and patriotic Aristotelian,
  exactly in the same way the other was written by a wilful, angry, and
  furiously inequitable extremist.” S. P. Sherman

     – + =Nation= 105:532 N 15 ‘17 5850w

  “The foes of our own household are those who dare to differ from
  Colonel Roosevelt. And he verbally flays those foes with all the
  vocabulary—and it is by no means a small one—at his command. There are
  stripes here for everybody. For the pro-German, the pacifist, the
  conscientious objector, the ‘parasite woman’—meaning or, rather,
  including the one that won’t bear children—the radical, the socialist
  and the trusts.” Joshua Wanhope

       — =NY Call= p14 O 28 ‘17 650w

  “The diligence with which he berates the President and his advisers
  and the frequency with which he airs his own personal grievance bring
  vividly to mind the incessant fault-finding and the determined
  attempts to rouse anti-administration feeling of some of the men in
  public life during the Civil war. ... It is very much to be regretted
  that Colonel Roosevelt was not better advised than to give permanence
  to some of his criticisms. For they deal with crises left behind
  us, ... and their tendency is to foster and increase distrust and
  disapproval of the government’s conduct of the war. ... These blots
  are the greater pity because they mar a book that in its far greater
  part is intensely patriotic, devoted to the betterment of American
  life, helpful and important.”

         =N Y Times= 22:379 O 7 ‘17 950w

         =Outlook= 117:350 O 31 ‘17 200w

  “The book is vital with the unimpaired vigor and moral force of its
  distinguished author.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:549 N ‘17 270w

       + =Spec= 119:680 D 8 ‘17 1700w

  “Mr Roosevelt’s opening chapters express a desire which can only be
  the interpreted as having for its object the militarization of mind
  and heart of the United States. ... His book is about as philosophic
  as a volcano—and only a little less picturesque.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 26 ‘17 600w

  “When Mr Roosevelt writes on a topic of actuality one always gets the
  exhilarating impression of a determined pugilist who has his
  opponent’s head in chancery and does not mean to stop pounding it
  until he has made the world a better place to live in. It is a prose
  style which suits the writer exactly.”

       + =The Times= [London] Lit Sup p536 N 8 ‘17 800w


=ROOT, ELIHU.= Latin America and the United States; col. and ed. by
Robert Bacon and James Brown Scott. *$2.50 (2c) Harvard univ. press 308
17-16739

  “The collected addresses and state papers of Elihu Root, of which this
  is one of several volumes, cover the period of his service as
  Secretary of war, as Secretary of state, and as senator of the United
  States. ... These addresses are not arranged chronologically, but are
  classified in such a way that each volume contains addresses and
  speeches relating to a general subject and a common purpose.”
  (Introductory note) This volume contains the addresses delivered
  during Mr Root’s trip to South America and Mexico in 1906, and in the
  United States after his return. The addresses of welcome and
  congratulation accompanying Mr Root’s addresses have been translated
  from the language of the country in which they were delivered. The
  first 200 pages are devoted mainly to “after-dinner speeches and
  toasts or answers to toasts delivered at diplomatic meetings.” The
  more valuable part of the book is the last eighty pages given to
  “Addresses in the United States on Latin American relations,”
  delivered from 1893-1915, the last of these being the address of
  welcome before the Second Pan-American scientific congress. Mr Root’s
  South American speeches have been published by the government of the
  United States in an official volume.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:43 N ‘17

  “Will be invaluable to the future historian who seeks to trace the
  origins of that fraternal spirit which has brought to our side in the
  war with Germany the great majority of our southern neighbors.”

       + =Ind= 92:256 N 3 ‘17 480w

         =Nation= 106:94 Ja 24 ‘18 700w

       + =N Y Times= 22:582 D 30 ‘17 650w

  “We must not forget that the invaluable spadework of Mr Root more than
  ten years ago was, to no small extent, the cause of the present
  harvest of goodwill and friendship between the two Americas. This book
  is one to be read and to be kept for reference. It contains in the
  speeches of Mr Root and in those of his South American hosts the
  distilled essence of that Pan-American sentiment which will be one of
  the greatest of peace-compelling forces in the future.”

         =Spec= 119:328 S 29 ‘17 1000w

  “The more substantial part of the volume is to be found in the last
  eighty pages or so, and in the form of addresses delivered in the
  United States. They do to some extent afford real help to the reader
  who may wish to learn what is meant by ‘Pan-Americanism.’ The term is
  not free from ambiguity. ... On the whole, an examination of Mr Root’s
  addresses confirms old doubts whether the only practical
  Pan-Americanism is not Pan-North Americanism.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p459 S 27 ‘17 650w


=ROOT, ELIHU.= Military and colonial policy of the United States. *$2
Harvard univ. press 355 17-414

  “Mr Root was Secretary of war from Aug. 1, 1899, to Feb. 1, 1904;
  Secretary of state from July 1, 1905, to Jan. 27, 1909; United States
  Senator from New York from 1909 to 1915. The latest volume of his
  addresses and reports, edited by Mr Bacon and Mr Scott, covers his
  services in the cabinet of Mr McKinley and in that of Mr Roosevelt,
  the larger part being allotted to his work in connection with the
  Philippines and the reorganization of the army command.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 13:292 Ap ‘17

  “The editors have increased the value of the book by prefacing each
  article with a note giving its historical setting, and inserting
  relevant documents such as the protocols and treaties concluding the
  war with Spain, the instructions for the military government of the
  Philippines, the militia act of 1903, etc. There is also an index of
  some value.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:359 My ‘17 300w

  “They record the activity, the originality and the constructive
  service of the most accomplished and devoted public servant that the
  American people have had since the death of Alexander Hamilton.”

       + =Educ R= 54:97 Je ‘17 100w

  “A volume which is of direct pertinence to the problems of to-day.”

       + =Nation= 104:686 Je 7 ‘17 230w

  “No student of the history of the United States on the morrow of the
  Spanish war can ignore the contents of this most interesting volume.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:143 Ap 15 ‘17 700w

  “Addresses and papers which should, and will serve as a reservoir of
  material for editorial writers and federal legislators.”

       + =Outlook= 115:208 Ja 31 ‘17 80w

  “It deserves, and we hope it may get, a wide reading throughout the
  British empire. Rarely have such official utterances had a higher
  political and even romantic interest. ... Perhaps the most thrilling
  and absorbing part of the tale modestly and quietly set forth in these
  official pages is that which deals with the disposal of Cuba. ... Mr
  Root’s admirably sensible and unanswerable defence of his Philippine
  administration may be commended to British rulers of India, from the
  secretary of state downwards.”

       + =Spec= 118:592 My 26 ‘17 1550w

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 22 ‘17 130w

  “The whole collection, when completed, will form a lasting monument to
  a statesman whose great qualities have long since gained him
  recognition, as far beyond the borders of his own country, as perhaps
  the most eminent of living American men of affairs. The present volume
  covers but part of his immense and varied activities, but it is the
  part which in the circumstances of the present time, is perhaps of the
  most vital interest to the American people and to the world at large.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p183 Ap 19 ‘17 2350w


=ROPER, DANIEL CALHOUN.= United States post office. il *$1.50 (2c) Funk
353 17-24056

  Authoritatively sums up the history and present condition of the
  postal service of the United States and points out its potentiality
  for still greater service to our country and to mankind. Contents:
  Postal service and civilization; Colonial post offices in America;
  British control of the American post office; Early development of the
  Federal postal system; Rise of the modern postal system; United States
  postal history since 1847; The post offices; The network of post
  roads; The post office lobby; The workings of a post office; Railway
  mail service; How the farmer gets his mail; Collection and delivery in
  cities; Addresses; Postage and mail classification; Parcel post;
  Special services; Postal banking; Postal inspection and control;
  Policing the mails; World mail service; Economic utility of the post
  office; Foreign trade by post; Postal engineering; The human element;
  The post office department; Relation of the department to Congress and
  the people; Postal perspective; Comparative postal service; Philately.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:77 D ‘17

  “Mr Roper has succeeded in giving a readable history of the beginnings
  and expansion of postal facilities with a very clear explanation of
  the workings of the post office and interesting information as to the
  difficulties to be solved, such as would hardly be possible for an
  author without actual experience in postal administration. The
  bibliography is incomplete and faulty.” Lindsay Rogers

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 12:150 F ‘18 400w

  “Mr Roper writes with the authority of four years’ experience as first
  assistant postmaster general (1913-16). His enthusiasm for his subject
  promises a good book, and the promise is fulfilled. Especially
  interesting are the chapters on the workings of the various
  departments of our postal service, as also the account of certain
  significant differences between our own system and those of Europe. A
  chapter entitled ‘Postal perspective’ presents a suggestive vista of
  possible future developments in our post-office department.”

       + =Dial= 63:596 D 6 ‘17 210w

  “The information afforded should be at the command of every citizen.”

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 1 ‘17 240w


=ROSENAU, MILTON JOSEPH.= Preventive medicine and hygiene; with chapters
upon sewage and garbage, by G: C. Whipple; vital statistics, by J: W.
Trask; mental hygiene, by T: W. Salmon. il *$6.50 Appleton 614 17-21957

  “The third edition of Rosenau’s ‘Preventive medicine and hygiene’ may
  well be called a special or military edition, for it is obvious that
  it has been prepared to meet the needs of the present emergency. To
  the consideration of the fundamentals of hygiene have been added
  sections on military hygiene as follows: Examinations of recruits,
  Diseases of the soldier, Duties and organization of the sanitary
  corps, Sanitation of troops in camp and on the march, etc. In the
  discussion of the new diseases which have arisen in the present world
  war, the latest information is given concerning trench fever, trench
  foot, war nephritis, shell shock, and gas poisoning, while other
  diseases, as tuberculosis, meningitis, and the venereal diseases, are
  presented in the light of war conditions. The discussion of the newer
  diseases peculiar to war is accompanied by a comprehensive
  bibliography of the recent literature.”—Nation

         =A L A Bkl= 14:143 Ja ‘18

  “With this new section superimposed on the one thousand pages of the
  former editions ... the work becomes the most comprehensive, as it has
  always been the most authoritative, treatise on hygiene in the English
  language.”

       + =Nation= 105:434 O 18 ‘17 320w

       + =Survey= 39:171 N 17 ‘17 170w


=ROSENBAUM, SAMUEL.= Rule-making authority in the English supreme court;
with an introd. preface by T. Willes Chitty. (Univ. of Penn. law school
ser.) $3.50 Boston bk. 17-9474

  “Delegation of the power to make the rules governing the trial of the
  cases brought before them to the judges of the supreme court working
  with members of the legal profession, has been a feature of British
  jurisprudence since 1875 and has been less thoroughly adopted in most
  of the British colonies. Mr Rosenbaum undertakes a description of the
  development of the rules now in force and of their content. ... There
  are frequent comparisons between English and American methods of rule
  making to the disadvantage of the latter though no analysis of these
  is presented.” (Am Pol Sci R) “Mr Rosenbaum’s conclusion is that the
  regulation of civil procedure should be entrusted to a professional
  body rather than to a well-intentioned but overworked legislature.”
  (Ann Am Acad) The contents of this book first appeared as articles in
  the University of Pennsylvania Law Review, the Law Quarterly Review,
  the Law Magazine and Review, and the Journal of the Society of
  Comparative Legislation.

  “The material first appeared as articles in law magazines and the
  subsequent editing has not eliminated references to local conditions
  and practice justified only in the original publication.” C. L. Jones

         =Am Pol Sci R= 11:590 Ag ‘17 420w

  “Mr T. Willes Chitty of the Royal courts of justice, London, who
  writes the introduction, speaks in highest praise of the painstaking
  research and labor which the author has devoted to his task, and of
  ‘the practical, detailed, and accurate knowledge of our procedure
  which he has acquired’ and lays before his readers. This estimate by
  an English jurist is an estimate that can be taken at its face value,
  as it comes from one who is thoroughly familiar with the rules which
  Mr Rosenbaum describes and discusses.” C. L. King

       + =Ann Am Acad= 73:239 S ‘17 140w


=ROSENBLATT, FRANK FERDINAND.= Chartist movement in its social and
economic aspects. (Columbia univ. studies in history, economics and
public law) pa *$2 Longmans 342.4 16-25226

  “The volume, which is introductory, summarizes the English radical
  movement previous to Chartism from the beginning of the last quarter
  of the eighteenth century, describes in detail the economic and
  political situation in England at the time of the origin of Chartism,
  sketches the careers, personalities, and beliefs of the leaders of the
  movement, traces its emergence from the existing political and
  economic conditions and its development until the end of the Newport
  riot in November, 1839. The war has delayed the completion of this
  study for the subsequent period.”—J Pol Econ

  “There seems no particular reason for the qualifying phrase in its
  title since the political side of the movement is as much to the front
  as the social and economic. The preliminary chapters are inadequate
  and disappointing. In the opinion of the reviewer they should either
  have been made much more exhaustive or cut down to a few introductory
  paragraphs. The narrative chapters bring out clearly the conflicting
  attitudes of the ‘moral force’ and the ‘physical force’ factions. The
  work is thoroughly and impartially done; but one has a feeling that
  the material had not been well enough digested and assimilated to
  enable the author to write with breadth of view and sense of
  proportion.” H. E. Mills

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:605 S ‘17 330w

  “It is a little over sixty years since a book wholly devoted to the
  history of the Chartist movement was issued from the English press;
  for not a single book on the subject has appeared in England since
  Gammage published his history in 1854. As far as it goes his study is,
  on the whole, a satisfactory piece of work. It is particularly so as
  regards the sketches of the leaders of the movement, and of the spirit
  in which they preached the gospel of revolt. He is less successful
  when he describes the political, industrial, and social conditions
  that gave birth to the Chartist movement.” E: Porritt

     + — =Am Hist R= 22:649 Ap ‘17 580w

  “His exposition of the causes behind the Chartist movement is marred
  in places by inexactness of statement, and a tendency to exaggeration
  in language out of harmony with a scholarly presentation of historical
  facts.” E: Porritt

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:340 My ‘17 650w

       + =Ind= 89:232 F 5 ‘17 120w

         =J Pol Econ= 25:635 Je ‘17 190w

  “Three ‘Ph. D.’ monographs on Chartism, together constituting volume
  73 of Studies in history, economics and law present from different
  points of view a survey of a movement too much neglected by
  historians, especially by those of England and the United States. ...
  Dr Rosenblatt gives more attention than his fellow-authors to the
  narrative of events; so his essay serves well as an introduction.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 330w

  “An immense amount of information in a very readable form is packed
  into 244 pages.” I. C. Hannah

       + =Survey= 38:288 Je 30 ‘17 260w


=ROTHSCHILD, ALONZO.= “Honest Abe”; a study in integrity based on the
early life of Abraham Lincoln. il *$2 (2½c) Houghton 17-25451

  “The unique and comprehensive library of Lincolniana” which Mr
  Rothschild had collected, recently donated in his memory to the
  Widener library of Harvard university, evidences the thorough research
  and study which he gave to his chosen subject. Mr Robert Lincoln has
  been quoted as calling “Lincoln, master of men,” Mr Rothschild’s first
  book on Lincoln, the best book about his father he had read. “‘Honest
  Abe’ traces the development of Lincoln’s honesty as exhibited by his
  active life from childhood through his election to the Senate. An
  additional chapter, unfortunately cut off by the author’s sudden
  death, was to have been added. The work, however, is an entity as it
  stands. ... Two of the chapters are concerned with Lincoln as a
  lawyer; one, with Lincoln as a politician. ... Following the text is a
  short biography of the author written by his son.” (Boston Transcript)
  “A list of books cited” occupies eleven pages and is followed by
  thirty-eight pages of “Notes” in which there are frequent references
  to secondary authorities. The frontispiece is a portrait of Abraham
  Lincoln taken from a woodcut by T. Johnson after a daguerreotype owned
  by Mr Robert T. Lincoln.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:128 Ja ‘18

  Reviewed by L. E. Robinson

       + =Bookm= 46:595 Ja ‘18 300w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 10 ‘17 800w

       + =Cath World= 106:693 F ‘18 230w

  “An inspiring and absorbing book.”

       + =Cleveland= p12 Ja ‘18 50w

  “That any new thing could be said about Lincoln seemed impossible
  until Mr Rothschild’s new volume appeared. Of Mr Lincoln’s honesty
  other biographies have told us, but in rather a passing way: here we
  have the fact set forth in clear detail, with an amazing array of
  proofs, from widely scattered sources, exciting wonder how they could
  all be obtained.”

       + =Lit D= 55:44 D 1 ‘17 140w

       + =Nation= 105:723 D 27 ‘17 100w

  “A unique method of treatment of Lincoln’s life and character.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:445 N 4 ‘17 380w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:803 D ‘17 40w

  “The steadily running stream of anecdote finally becomes somewhat
  tiresome, yet the cumulative effect is undeniably impressive.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p8 D 14 ‘17 390w


=ROWLES, WILLIAM F.= Garden under glass. il *$2 Lippincott 716.3
17-29979

  “Mr Rowles gives the data of greenhouse construction, from cold frames
  and pits to the finished structure, illustrating his descriptions with
  many diagrams and drawings. ... He divides his subject into six
  sections: The construction of glass houses and frames; popular
  greenhouse plants; fruit under glass; vegetables under glass and
  greenhouse work. The concluding section holds miscellaneous data: the
  construction and use of amateur frames; the character of greenhouse
  pests and the best methods for their extermination; a ‘greenhouse
  calendar’; a glossary, etc.”—Boston Transcript

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 320w

  “An excellent exposition of English greenhouse methods.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:449 N 4 ‘17 40w


=ROXBURGH, RONALD FRANCIS.= International conventions and third states.
*$2.50 Longmans 341.2 17-22005

  This monograph is published as one of the Contributions to
  international law and diplomacy, edited by L. Oppenheim, who says that
  it deals with a problem that has never before been made the subject of
  thorough research. Authors of different nationalities have approached
  the subject with a biased viewpoint. “They take it for granted that
  the principles and rules of international law are to be construed and
  interpreted according to views upheld by their municipal law and their
  national jurisprudence.” Mr Roxburgh covers the subject in seven
  chapters: Introduction; Third parties and contracts in municipal law;
  The opinions of publicists; Treaties unfavorable to third states;
  Treaties beneficial to third states; The influence of custom:
  Exceptional cases. The work was prepared in the years 1913 and 1914,
  “in accordance with the rules governing the Whewell international law
  scholarships in the University of Cambridge,” but has since been
  revised and largely rewritten. A list of authorities referred to is
  included.

  “It must be confessed that the author’s treatment of his subject is
  somewhat sketchy and not at all points conclusive. ... It might
  perhaps have been a better arrangement to have made the study of
  municipal law follow rather than precede the precedents of diplomatic
  practice. ... But these are minor points and they do not prevent us
  from agreeing with the learned editor that the author has ‘brought
  together a considerable amount of material, and that he has come to
  very valuable conclusions which require thorough examination and
  consideration.’” C. G. Fenwick

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:777 N ‘17 700w

  “Excellent index.” F.

       + =Eng Hist R= 32:626 O ‘17 150w


=RUGG, HAROLD ORDWAY.= Statistical methods applied to education.
(Riverside textbooks in education) il *$2 Houghton 370 17-29584

  A textbook for students of education in the quantitative study of
  school problems, prepared by an assistant professor of education in
  the University of Chicago. It has been written for the average school
  administrator limited in mathematical equipment. The writer believes
  that it is necessary to equip school men with a thorough-going
  knowledge of statistical methods as a background for discriminating
  use in improvement of their school practice. A preliminary chapter
  explains The use of statistical methods in education. Other chapters
  deal with collection and classification of educational facts and data,
  the method of averages, the measurement of variability, the frequency
  curve, the use of tabular and graphic methods in reporting school
  facts.

         =El School J= 18:239 N ‘17 90w

  “The bibliography is remarkably well chosen and annotated and covers a
  wide range of studies on school administration. Mr Rugg’s book is a
  real contribution to the science of education, and one ventures to
  prophesy that it will be found on the desk of every progressive school
  man in the country.” P. C. Stetson

       + =El School J= 18:314 D ‘17 1300w

         =School R= 25:693 N ‘17 90w (Same as =El School J N= ‘17)

  Reviewed by P. C. Stetson

       + =School R= 25:765 D ‘17 1300w (Same as =El School J D= ‘17)


=RUHL, ARTHUR BROWN.= White nights and other Russian impressions. il *$2
(4c) Scribner 914.7 17-13589

  The first chapter, The road to Russia, gives Scandinavian impressions.
  The author tells how the people of Norway and Sweden look on the war,
  describes Stockholm on a sunny morning, and gives an account of a
  visit with Ellen Key. The Russian chapters that follow are: White
  nights; At the front; The Moscow art theatre; A look at the Duma;
  Russia’s war prisoners; A Russian cotton king; Down the Volga to
  Astrakhan; Volga refugees; Rumania learns what war is. There are over
  twenty photographic illustrations.

  “Very well written and readable.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:446 Jl ‘17

  “Mr Ruhl is perhaps the best equipped, in sympathetic understanding,
  charm of style, and intellectual preparation, of the American
  journalists now in Russia. ... Throughout the trip Mr Ruhl keeps
  America in mind, and his contrasts and comparisons with life in our
  own land help to throw into relief the manners and customs of a
  foreign people.” L: S. Friedland

       + =Dial= 63:266 S 27 ‘17 650w

       + =Ind= 91:77 Jl 14 ‘17 50w

  “His description of the strong pro-German feeling in Sweden as
  compared with the almost as strong pro-Ally sentiment in Norway and
  his glance at the causes for the difference will illuminate the
  situation in Scandinavia for many American readers.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:209 My 27 ‘17 670w

       + =Outlook= 116:233 Je 6 ‘17 70w

  “Mr Ruhl is a skilled reporter, and here he has a worthy subject. His
  book makes no bid for permanency, but as a presentation of varied
  aspects of Russia it has not been bettered since the war
  started—praise which does not consist wholly in the fact that Russia
  has not been ‘written up’ so extensively as have most of her allies
  and enemies.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 7 ‘17 370w


=RUMSEY, FRANCES.= Mr Cushing and Mlle du Chastel. *$1.40 (1c) Lane
17-11701

  While one’s American instincts lead one to side with the American
  husband, it is a tribute to the author’s power that she more than once
  forces the reader to see the situation from the point of view of the
  French wife. After their marriage Paul Cushing brings Anne-Marie to
  his New York home. Clashes of temperament are inevitable. The
  husband’s ideals are more than once shocked by his wife’s insistence
  on exact materialistic interpretations. Her French bringing up has
  taught her to overlook what she considers the normal delinquencies of
  men; but she sees delinquencies where none have existed, and it is on
  this rock that their marriage breaks. The meeting of the two in Paris,
  after Anne-Marie, true to her code of conduct, has left her husband to
  live with another man, brings out definitely the absolute divergence
  of the two points of view.

  “Well written with a limited appeal for sophisticated readers.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:452 Jl ‘17

  “Seldom have American and Parisian conflicting standards been more
  cleverly analyzed and contrasted than in this distinctively
  ‘international’ novel. Seldom have human emotions and values been more
  convincingly interpreted. ... The story is not for all. But to those
  who appreciate originality of ideas and perfection of artistry, its
  daring plot, the Gallic precision of its premises, its gracious
  diction and its pitiless logic will bring a unique pleasure.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 25 ‘17 800w

  “Worthy of respect and thoughtful perusal.”

       + =Dial= 64:77 Ja 17 ‘18 600w

  “The people are carefully dissected and nonliving intelligences, not
  human beings.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:163 Ap 22 ‘17 300w


=RUSSELL, BERTRAND ARTHUR WILLIAM.= Political ideals. *$1 (5c) Century
320.4 17-24663

  Mr Russell examines our present political ideals, our economic system,
  the dangers of state socialism, and the proper limits of individual
  and of national freedom, and concludes that our institutions should
  lay stress on the creative rather than the possessive impulse in man,
  that there should be a diminution, if not a total abolition, of rent
  and interest, that “the state should be the sole recipient of economic
  rent, while private capitalistic enterprises should be replaced by
  selfgoverning combinations of those who actually do the work,” that
  there should be “autonomy within each politically important group, and
  a neutral authority for deciding questions involving relations between
  groups,” that “the whole realm of thought and opinion” should be free,
  but that “in all that concerns possession and the use of force,
  unrestrained liberty involves anarchy and injustice”; that “the
  boundaries of states should coincide as nearly as possible with the
  boundaries of nations,” but that the external relations of states
  should be decided by “some international instruments of government.”
  Contents: Political ideals; Capitalism and the wage system; Pitfalls
  in socialism; Individual liberty and public control; National
  independence and internationalism.

  “A sane and succinct statement of the philosopher’s well known views
  for individual and community ideals. This is not a book of pacifism
  and will be stimulating to thoughtful readers in any community.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:78 D ‘17

  Reviewed by F. W. Coker

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:137 F ‘18 750w

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 2 ‘18 750w

  “We feel that it is around the ideas expressed in this book that the
  younger generation will rally for a clear faith and a well-grounded
  hope. Mr Russell has expressed these ideas in his other books. But
  here they are organized into what is virtually a primer of
  revolutionary idealism, written with a passionate soberness that stirs
  the mind as deeply as it moves the heart.” Randolph Bourne

       + =Dial= 64:69 Ja 17 ‘18 550w

  “Many will not accept the war convictions of this noted English
  philosopher; but they demand respect.”

       + =Ind= 92:536 D 15 ‘17 460w

  “Mr Russell’s keen dissection of the evils of modern industrialism and
  the obstacles to free thought is at least wholesomely disturbing, but
  we cannot discover in his vague constructive suggestions any
  well-thought-out plan that can be adjudged practically workable.”

     – + =Nation= 105:459 O 25 ‘17 400w

  “Mr Russell is almost a Socialist; but he eludes all attempts to
  pigeonhole him. The danger he sees in the socialist program is the
  loss of that very freedom for the individual which is the summum bonum
  for all thinkers. Mr Russell predicts that the result of the
  realization of the present socialist program would be the domination
  of officialdom and bureaucracy. The answer to the problem is:
  ‘Autonomy within each politically important group, and a neutral
  authority for deciding questions involving relations between groups.’
  This, of course, is guild socialism, deprived of the anarchistic
  freedom of the different trades. Mr Russell’s position in the present
  world crisis must command attention from every Socialist who is open
  to intelligent and constructive criticism of the socialist movement.”
  Bertram Benedict

       + =N Y Call= p14 O 7 ‘17 700w

  “In ‘Political ideals’ we have Mr Russell at his best. He is still
  impractical, and he admits the fact. But he is seldom capricious to
  the point of irresponsibility. In his criticisms of the life of to-day
  a keen and almost unnaturally disinterested intellect achieves a happy
  union with ethical courage and the two qualities are fused in a style
  of the utmost poise and clarity. ... While not entirely friendly to
  the state, Mr Russell does not abolish the state. On the contrary, he
  holds that in economic matters the state should exercise wider control
  than at present; while granting to the individual greater freedom in
  thought, freedom, religion and ethical questions governed by
  individual conscience. ... He is a critic of socialism and
  syndicalism, but his own ideas of ownership and control do not take
  definite form in this book.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 1400w

  “In simple language, the five essays contained in this slim volume
  give the author’s political credo, more fully developed in ‘Why men
  fight.’ The reconciliation of liberty with government to him is the
  chief problem in economic and political relationships which must be
  solved before the world can be made safe and at the same time open to
  every form of human advancement. ‘Political ideals’ will help the
  reader who sees all the ruin wrought by capitalism and the possessive
  motive in world politics, and yet is prevented by fear of the ‘servile
  state’ from embracing the doctrines of socialism. It gives no new
  political system, no visionary scheme of revolutionary change, but
  formulates the philosophic basis for a program of immediate and
  consecutive reform.” B. L.

       + =Survey= 39:202 N 24 ‘17 300w


=RUSSELL, BERTRAND ARTHUR WILLIAM.= Why men fight; a method of
abolishing the international duel (Eng title, Principles of social
reconstruction). *$1.50 (2½c) Century 172.4 17-1513

  In this new book Bertrand Russell makes a study of the springs of
  human conduct. Responsibility for the war is placed by one group of
  people on the wickedness of the Germans, by another on the tangles of
  diplomacy and the ambitions of governments. Both groups, Mr Russell
  thinks, fail to realize the extent to which war grows out of ordinary
  human nature. “War is accepted by men who are neither Germans nor
  diplomatists with a readiness, an acquiescence in untrue and
  inadequate reasons, which would not be possible if any deep repugnance
  to war were widespread in other nations or classes.” The springs of
  human activity are impulse and desire, and of these, thinks Mr
  Russell, impulse is the stronger force. The pacifists are defined by
  him as “men in whom some impulse to which war is hostile is strong
  enough to overcome the impulses that lead to war.” What is needed then
  is a social reconstruction that will set free those impulses that lead
  to life rather than death. There are chapters on The state; Property;
  Education; Marriage and the population question; Religion and the
  churches, etc. In the preface to the London edition the statement is
  made that the lectures were written in 1915, and delivered in the
  beginning of 1916.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:292 Ap ‘17

  “A book which it is very difficult to review with fairness: it is a
  book by a big man, who cares intensely for intellectual freedom and
  has achieved a European reputation by his work in his own very
  abstract field, but it is at the same time a book by a man out of
  heart and out of temper with the world, written hastily, left (as the
  preface tells us) unrevised, and dealing with a subject on many
  aspects of which he is ignorant, and on which his training and
  temperament debar him from writing with real insight. Perhaps the best
  and most charitable thing to say about it is that it is unworthy of
  its author.”

       — =Ath= p577 D ‘16 1600w

  Reviewed by Nathaniel Pfeffer

         =Bookm= 45:197 Ap ‘17 300w

         =Cleveland= p54 Ap ‘17 150w

  “Particularly for Americans, it contains a warning and a programme,
  because America is in greatest danger from the evils it denounces, and
  nearest to attainment of the excellences it urges. It is a handbook
  for patriots whose concern is the soul of our country.” H. M. Kallen

       + =Dial= 62:233 Mr 22 ‘17 4000w

  “The Honorable Bertrand Russell affords perhaps the most striking
  example in this generation of powerful intellect working in vacuo. ...
  In his volume entitled ‘Why men fight’ there is very much that is fine
  and splendid, but this is almost invariably accompanied by a lack of
  appreciation of the realities of human nature and of life.”

     – + =Educ R= 54:98 Je ‘17 90w

  “Like all that Mr Russell writes, these pages are full of stimulating
  suggestion, of vigorous criticism, and of fresh and original thinking.
  Yet I venture to predict—as it is, no doubt, safe to do in regard to
  any writer upon social questions just now—that if, in future years,
  when the passions of these stormy days are stilled, Mr Russell returns
  to the topics here discussed, he will handle many of them differently
  and from a wider point of view.” G. D. Hicks

 *     + =Hibbert J= 15:692 Jl ‘17 3050w

  “His book remains a turning point in constructive social theory.” C.
  D. Burns

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:384 Ap ‘17 1300w

  “In no other war book or peace book known to the present reviewer is
  there to be found so thoroughgoing an investigation of ‘the various
  influences, social and political,’ which explain why men fight.”

       + =Nation= 104:367 Mr 29 ‘17 1500w

  “To read ‘Why men fight’ with any sympathy is to be entranced by the
  honesty, the concentration, the intelligence, the equilibrium of its
  author. ... While many of his criticisms are unsparing, none of them
  is devious or poisoned. The principles of democracy and liberty are
  frankly and utterly his principles. ... He understands perfectly well
  that the enemy has to be fought, as the fighting insect has to be
  crushed. ... Many passages in ‘Why men fight’ indicate that Mr Russell
  is neither omniscient nor entirely consistent. He seems to dispose of
  incompatibilities easily, and yet to demand radical changes.” F. H.

       + =New Repub= 10:24 F 3 ‘17 2300w

  “A much more solid piece of work than his previous book on ‘Justice in
  war time.’ Here he has his feet partly on the ground, and is seemingly
  much more inclined to examine the economic foundations of society.” J.
  W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 F 25 ‘17 1050w

  “Much of his thinking is of a very radical complexion, although it is
  individual in its radicalism and is not to be labeled with any
  existing brand of reform.”

         =N Y Times= 22:46 F 11 ‘17 500w

  “Bertrand Russell is perhaps the greatest of England’s living
  thinkers. ... It is just because the impulse to fight which swept this
  country off its feet when the Maine was blown up, so easily becomes
  uncontrollable that this calm, clear voice from the midst of the
  conflict bears a particularly timely message for the United States.”
  Robert Lynd

       + =Pub W= 91:590 F 17 ‘17 800w

  “Although Mr Bertrand Russell lives in a political solitude as
  lonesome as that of Coleridge’s ‘Ancient mariner,’ he is manifestly
  able, to a limited extent, to combine with other groups on the
  vivifying basis of a number of common hatreds. ... Mr Bertrand Russell
  has written a thoroughly mischievous book, and it is all the more
  mischievous because, being a cultivated man, he has at his service a
  felicitous literary style which may possess some attractions for the
  unwary minds of prejudiced partisans and loose thinkers.” [Earl of]
  Cromer

       — =Spec= 117:702 D 2 ‘16 2250w

  “Much that Mr Russell says in criticizing the social order will be
  accepted as true by the philosophical thinker, who will, however, see
  that Mr Russell has failed to do any constructive reasoning that might
  lead to improvement. ... Mr Russell’s book is written with his
  wellknown brilliancy and force, but one fears that few persons will be
  able to read it through with patience. Mr Russell is too individual to
  agree at all points with the ‘philosophical anarchists,’ but his
  reasoning runs in that direction.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 25 ‘17 500w

  “To have said these things now, to have given fearless and eloquent
  utterance to ideas vaguely formulated and uncoordinated in other
  minds, has given to Bertrand Russell an intellectual leadership which
  will win him crowns both of laurel and of thorn.” Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 38:45 Ap 14 ‘17 1100w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p552 N 16 ‘16 80w

  “In the chapter on war is matter for the meditation of the pacifist as
  well as the boisterous patriot. ... It is not a convincing book. The
  author has too many grievances with the social world as it is to be
  fair to it or wise, but it is a book to stir and stimulate and promote
  that ‘creative impulse’ which it extols.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p566 N 30 ‘16 650w


=RUSSELL, GEORGE WILLIAM (A. E., pseud.).= National being: some thoughts
on an Irish polity. *$1.35 Macmillan 342 (Eng ed 16-22450)

  “‘A. E.,’ the author of ‘The national being’ believes that Ireland
  must be free to work out a destiny for herself among the nations of
  the earth. He believes that it is possible for her to solve the
  problem, too, not necessarily by fire and sword—for small nations are
  seldom wise in taking up the sword—but by the more patient and
  effective method of making Ireland economically free. When that is
  accomplished, the political freedom will follow naturally and will
  mean more than the creation of a new Parliament of stupidity to
  replace the present body which rules Ireland. ... ‘A. E.’s’ plan for a
  commercially liberated Ireland begins with a scheme for co-operative
  production instead of the multifarious and futile competition that
  exists at present.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Beautifully written and inspiring, even if he is somewhat inclined to
  idealize the situation.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:246 Mr ‘17

  “His ‘imaginative meditation on the state of Ireland’ is, indeed,
  addressed to youth. It breathes a note of confidence, of hope
  triumphant and undismayed, of spiritual adventure and high courage
  that only the ears of youth can catch. A. E.’s message is not to the
  politicians of to-day, but to the future nation-builders of Ireland.”

       + =Ath= p524 N ‘16 950w

  “A suggestive and splendid vision of industrial energy and justice and
  a plan of universal service for the state.”

       + =Ind= 90:469 Je 9 ‘17 40w

  “It is in truth a considered summation and codification, at times
  attaining to a noble eloquence, of the author’s social and political
  philosophy. ... The writer of this stimulating book has deserved well
  of his native land. ‘The national being’ is sure, even in the present,
  to realize the author’s modest hope that it may ‘provoke thought on
  fundamentals.’”

       + =Nation= 104:163 F 8 ‘17 700w

  “We have had in the last two years half a hundred volumes on political
  organization. Of a certainty we have had few so penetrating or so
  wise.” H. J. L.

       + =New Repub= 10:270 Mr 31 ‘17 1550w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:8 Ja ‘17

  “An outline of the author’s conception of a coöperative commonwealth
  in Ireland, and a summary of his social and political philosophy. His
  message implies the establishment of a communal control in agriculture
  and industry, with an aristocracy of intellect dominating politics and
  government.”

         =Pittsburgh= 22:527 Je ‘17 43w

  “We confess to leaving: ‘A. E.’s’ imaginative meditation about the
  character and future of the state of Ireland with more admiration for
  the beauty of the language in which it is set forth than for the
  practicability of its suggestions.”

         =Spec= 117:446 O 14 ‘16 1050w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Mr 8 ‘17 650w

  “National safety can lie only in national harmony. By stressing and
  reiterating again and again this point, the author is driving home a
  lesson which may well be heeded also in other lands.” Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 38:549 S 22 ‘17 500w

  “There is a class of writers, practical men, whose thought has grown
  out of experience, who are not only clear expounders but also leaders.
  Of these the Irish poet, painter, economist, and apostle of
  cooperation, known as ‘A. E.’ is one. ... He has written a simple,
  practical, wise, and cheering book. It stands out among the
  innumerable social books that stream from the presses like a gentle
  giant among a crowd of clamouring pygmies.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p459 S 28 ‘16 1000w

  “The discussion of rural, agricultural, and labor problems have
  special reference to conditions in Ireland, but they are applicable in
  considerable degree to any country. It would be a pity if any serious
  student of these problems should be deprived of this remarkably
  stimulating and original work, which is notable for its literary
  quality.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:123 Ap ‘17 70w


=RUSSELL, GEORGE WILLIAM (A. E., pseud.), and others.= Irish home-rule
convention. *50c (2c) Macmillan 941.5 17-24526

  This book discusses the questions before the Irish convention now
  sitting in Cork. John Quinn first states his position regarding the
  European war, then considers the Sinn Fein and the Dublin
  insurrection, setting forth the English, American and Irish opinions
  of the insurrection and concluding with two short chapters on G. W.
  Russell and Sir Horace Plunkett. These seven chapters (ninety-four
  pages) are called on the title page (but not in the table of contents)
  “An American opinion.” Following Mr Quinn’s chapters, we have
  “Thoughts for a convention” (sixty-six pages), by George W. Russell
  (“A.E.”), who has here “put into shape for publication ideas and
  suggestions for an Irish settlement which had been discussed among a
  group whose members represented all extremes in Irish opinion. ... For
  the spirit, method of presentation and general arguments used, he
  alone is responsible.” (Note) Mr Russell does not believe in ‘dual
  government of Ireland by two houses of Parliament,’ but believes in a
  selfgoverning Ireland, in which Ulster should consent to play her
  part. The last part of the book consists of Sir Horace Plunkett’s
  “Defence of the convention” (twenty-three pages) delivered at Dundalk,
  June 25, 1917.

  “John Quinn’s attitude is one of optimism throughout and his
  presentation of the facts involved is both clarifying and weighty in
  significance. ... The fundamentals suggested by Mr Russell cover all
  phases of Irish misunderstanding, and if they could be carried out
  would work wonders in that much-perplexed country.” H. S. Gorman

       + =Bookm= 46:331 N ‘17 1700w

  “Every lover of Ireland will rejoice that brains so keen and spirits
  so well disposed and conciliatory are at work on the most difficult
  problem of the future constitution of the Irish nation.”

       + =Ind= 92:260 N 3 ‘17 90w

  “Three intelligent, illuminating, and hopeful views of the Irish
  question as it stands today.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:544 D 9 ‘17 90w

  “Mr George Russell and Sir Horace Plunkett have provided Irishmen with
  an opportunity to meet and work together on a plane above the region
  of official animosities. They have done in the economic life what the
  creators of the Irish literature have done in the sphere of art-given
  a common ground to distracted men. And because they have always been
  aware of the national scope of their work they are peculiarly fitted
  at this time to address their countrymen on behalf of national unity.
  The great hope for the future which waits upon the performance of the
  Home rule convention is that Ireland may have been informed and guided
  by the spirit which shines out in these appeals.” C: A. Bennett

       + =Yale R= n s 7:441 Ja ‘18 460w


=RUSSELL, GEORGE WILLIAM ERSKINE.= Arthur Henry Stanton: a memoir. il
*$3.50 Longmans A17-1384

  Father Stanton began his ministry more than half a century ago in St
  Albans, Holborn. “He was opposed to what is referred to as the
  Establishment, and in early manhood became a member of the Liberation
  society. The alliance between church and state was hateful to him. He
  devoted himself to the poor and outcast, and his methods showed a
  complete disregard of the scientific treatment demanded by social
  workers.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) He was not a scholar and never
  attained either worldly or ecclesiastical dignities, “yet he gained a
  reputation and wielded an influence such as can only be compared with
  that of the leaders of the early days of the Tractarian movement,
  Newman, Froude, Keble, and Pusey. For over fifty years he occupied a
  unique place in the English church, and this was due solely to the
  fact that he was himself. ... He figured prominently and as something
  of a firebrand in the bitterest and most acrimonious ritual disputes
  of the nineteenth century.” (Sat R) A man of narrow views,
  quick-tempered and combative, yet a broad humanity and tolerance
  governed his intercourse with his fellowmen.

  “Has special interest because of the insight it affords into the
  history of the High Church movement in England since 1862.”

       + =Cath World= 106:260 N ‘17 270w

  “If the Right Hon. G. W. E. Russell wrote his memoir for those who are
  personally familiar with Father Stanton’s ministry at St Albans,
  Holborn, or are otherwise deeply concerned in that union of Catholic
  sacramentalism and radical socialism which Father Stanton so fervidly
  represented, then the book is none too long; but for the ordinary
  reader, even for one who can find interest in a pretty strong dose of
  English ecclesiasticism, there is certainly three times too much of
  it.”

     + — =Nation= 105:152 Ag 9 ‘17 200w

  “We have nothing but admiration for the way in which Mr Russell has
  compiled the biography. Who combines so curiously well as he the
  refinements and fastidiousness of the man of letters and the man of
  the world with the things that spiritually matter?... Wherever
  possible Mr Russell allows Father Stanton to speak for himself, and
  the copious extracts from letters, speeches, and sermons have been
  well selected to present a complete picture of the man.”

 *     + =Sat R= 123:480 My 26 ‘17 1100w

  “A volume of engrossing interest, and a worthy memorial of a true
  servant of Christ and humanity.”

 *     + =Spec= 118:591 My 26 ‘17 2100w

  “Mr Russell’s narrative is a plain and restrained statement, offering
  just what is necessary to set each period of Stanton’s life in its
  proper perspective, and the book gains in force through this absence
  of discursiveness and laudation.”

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p234 My 17 ‘17 1050w


=RUSSELL, GEORGE WILLIAM ERSKINE.= Politics and personalities, with
other essays. *$2.25 Scribner 17-25966

  “In his latest volume, Mr Russell’s range of subjects extends from
  Gladstone to ghosts, from casuistry to chivalry and from thrift to
  tyrannicide. ... Especially does Mr Russell find the nineteenth
  century prolific in demagogues. ... In his list of demagogues Mr
  Russell includes Henry Brougham, Sir Francis Burdett, Lord Randolph
  Churchill and Joseph Chamberlain, the last two being ‘the most
  consummate demagogues whom England has ever produced.’ And with such
  famous men in his list, he is certain that Lloyd-George will not be
  offended when he finds himself included in their company.”—Boston
  Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:158 F ‘18

  “Not all, however, seem to us worth reproducing; and the best can be
  described in Oliver Wendell Holmes’s phrase about his own later essays
  as the wine squeezed out of the press after the first juice that runs
  of itself from the fruit.”

     – + =Ath= p672 D ‘17 110w

         =Boston Transcript= p9 O 17 ‘17 670w

         =Cleveland= p8 Ja ‘18 50w

  “The book itself is thoroughly engaging. It is one of those
  comfortable books which one can take up at odd moments with the
  assurance that they will prove good moments—a book genial without loss
  of seriousness, thoughtful without being profound, and (grateful
  virtue) contemporary without being harrowing.”

       + =Dial= 63:644 D 20 ‘17 400w

  “Mr G. W. E. Russell’s new book of essays is exceedingly good reading.
  Whether he writes of politics or persons, he is never dull; and
  whether he provokes us to argument, agreement, or only to a smile, he
  is excellent company.”

       + =Spec= 119:sup625 D 1 ‘17 1400w

  “Like most of Mr Russell’s books, this new volume is rich in political
  principle and memory, in details about leading men of immediate past
  and in constitutional knowledge.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p524 N 1 ‘17 960w


=RUSSELL, WALTER MARVIN.= Operation of gas works. il *$2 McGraw 665.7
17-5554

  “Mr Russell’s book ... deals with management and operation primarily
  and with apparatus and construction secondarily. ... First are
  presented organization and general management, both of plant and men.
  Then comes chemical control of product. One chapter is devoted to
  problems peculiar to coal-gas plants, another to water-gas production.
  Chapter 5 groups the general plant problems—handling materials,
  keeping cleaned up, fire protection, proper steam and water lines,
  keeping a good boiler house, etc. The final chapter discusses
  calorimetry and photometry, and an appendix gives miscellaneous useful
  tables.”—Engin News-Rec

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:47 N ‘17

  “Simple and clear instructions for operating standard types of
  apparatus usually found in small or medium sized gas works.”

       + =Cleveland= p95 Jl ‘17 20w

  “The growing use of manufactured-gas fuel in industrial plants and the
  increase in number of gas-works owned by manufacturing concerns have
  brought home to a wide circle of engineers outside the gas industry
  the lack of concise, easily read treatises on gas-works construction
  and operation. There has been of course the ‘catechism’ of the Gas
  institute, but this has not apparently been much utilized outside of
  the industry. Mr Russell’s book fills at least half the void, although
  not written with the industrial-plant engineers particularly in view.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:364 My 17 ‘17 180w

  “It is stated that the operations described have all been successfully
  tried out upon a commercial scale. The most recent developments,
  however, in mechanical operation, mass carbonization, and water gas
  operation have been omitted.”

     + — =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p5 Ap ‘17 110w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:464 My ‘17 40w

  “Author is manager of the Emporia gas company.”

         =Pratt= p20 Jl ‘17 50w


Russian court memoirs, 1914-16; with some account of court, social and
political life in Petrograd before and since the war. il *$5 Dutton (12s
6d Jenkins, London) 947 (Eng ed 17-12739)

  “The author writes as an avowed monarchist, and he completed his work
  long before the recent upheaval; but he was intensely alive to the
  dangers arising from the widespread belief in the existence of German
  influence in court circles, although he regarded the extent of that
  influence as being much exaggerated by popular rumour.” (Spec) “Among
  the topics discussed in the fifteen chapters that make up this volume
  are:—‘The Tsar and his family,’ ‘The Tsar and his generals,’ ‘The
  imperial court,’ ‘The Russian foreign office,’ ‘Society of Petrograd,’
  ‘Russian women during the war,’ and ‘The press.’” (The Times [London]
  Lit Sup)

  “The book contains many good portraits.”

         =Ath= p257 My ‘17 70w

  “Filled with anecdotes, malicious and foolish, about the private life,
  public appearance, and toilette of these great ones. Gossip of this
  type collected and placed on the market enables us to gauge the
  intellect of the pseudonymous writer, and to ask with regret who are
  the members of the English public who appreciate the fare thus
  provided.”

       — =Ath= p343 Jl ‘17 190w

  Reviewed by Abraham Yarmolinsky

       — =Bookm= 46:482 D ‘17 190w

  “Some books are like the manna foddered to the Jews in the wilderness,
  good at night but spoilt the next day. Such is this anonymous book.
  The Russian revolution put it as completely out of date as if it had
  been written a hundred years ago.” N. H. D.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 30 ‘17 650w

  “The author makes us see why the Czarina was unpopular and how she has
  been misunderstood. As a court picture, the book is comprehensive; as
  a political prophecy it is of far less importance.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:39 S 29 ‘17 210w

  “There is a good chapter on Russian women during the war. ... Our
  author claims that the Czar was in no way responsible for the war—that
  he did everything in his power to avert it. ... ‘Russian court
  memoirs’ is not a literary document. It is gossip, gossip that
  occasionally has a back-stairs flavor. As a journalistic report of a
  past era it is of intense interest. The book is sincere, faithfully
  told from the writer’s viewpoint—and the novelty of that viewpoint
  makes it all the more readable.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:396 O 14 ‘17 1150w

  “There is a sympathetic sketch of the ex-Czar and his children, but
  the former Czarina is criticized for her association with wandering
  monks. The illustrations give added interest to these piquant pen
  sketches.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:328 S ‘17 200w

  “He has a wealth of information and a good deal of pleasant anecdote
  about all the prominent figures in Petrograd society during the period
  he covers; but unfortunately his anonymity detracts, to some extent,
  from the value of his book as an historical document. We cannot give
  full credence to his version of the subtler influences at work beneath
  the surface of politics without knowing how much of what he says is
  genuine ‘inside’ knowledge, and how much is merely what was currently
  believed at the time.”

         =Spec= 118:568 My 19 ‘17 220w

  “Whatever may be the author’s social or other position in Petrograd,
  the information at his or her disposal is by no means of the
  back-stair variety. Not its least agreeable feature is the absence of
  any tendency to dogmatize or to prophesy.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p147 Mr 29 ‘17 850w


Russian year-book, 1916; comp. and ed. by N. Peacock. *10s 6d Eyre &
Spottiswoode, London 314.7

  “The sixth issue of this standard work of reference. It contains much
  new matter of value in connexion with the war—a résumé of the economic
  condition of Russia since the beginning of the war; the new Customs
  tariff in full detail; the 1916 budget, and much else; with a diary of
  the war on the Russian front.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p626 D 21 ‘16 50w


=RUTLEDGE, MARICE, pseud.= Children of fate. il *$1.35 (3c) Stokes
17-9707

  A story of the European war and of Paris in war time. Two lovers, a
  young French architect and an American girl, are separated by the
  first call to arms. Pierre, a high-strung, sensitive youth, finds the
  idea of killing loathsome. To nerve himself up to the task before him,
  he is forced to make himself believe that he is engaged in a war
  between good and evil, that he is battling for civilization. Natalie
  encourages his belief, but even at the moment of parting she has begun
  to doubt it, and as time goes on she comes to feel more and more that
  war cannot save civilization, that war cannot end war, that militarism
  is a hydra-headed monster, that if one of its heads, Germany, be cut
  off today, another will have grown up tomorrow. But of this she can
  say nothing to Pierre who depends on her encouragement. Their second
  parting, after he has been wounded, brings on a crisis in which the
  girl is forced to tell him the truth about herself and her
  convictions.

  “One observes here the ‘certain condescension’ of complacent feminism
  toward the dull and errant male, and the somewhat shrill note of the
  special pleader. But whatever may be thought of this book in its
  character of tract or brief, its dignity and moving quality as a story
  are beyond question.” H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 45:315 My ‘17 400w

  “The book is a piece of passionate special pleading but is well worth
  reading as such and as a story.”

       + =Cleveland= p89 Jl ‘17 170w

  “This is a book of passionate sincerity, an honest plea, but a special
  plea; and it does not escape the partiality or even altogether the
  shrillness, of its order.”

         =Nation= 104:490 Ap 26 ‘17 1150w

  “This ardent pacifist lays the crime of war at the door of woman,
  holding that without her sanction the world would not have the deadly
  recurrent spectacle of the ‘maleness run riot’ (to use the phrase of
  another feminist), which is war.” H. W. Boynton

     + — =Nation= 105:600 N 29 ‘17 60w

       — =N Y Times= 22:172 Ap 29 ‘17 120w

  “While the book brings out vividly some of the more distressful phases
  of the great war, particularly as regards France, the very fact that
  France is fighting in defense of her life should preserve that country
  from the sentiments which the author put in the mouth of his
  heroine. ... The story is excellently and even powerfully written. It
  contains germs of thought that will flourish and grow stronger in more
  peaceful times.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 600w


=RUYSBROECK, JAN VAN.= Adornment of the spiritual marriage; The
sparkling stone; The book of supreme truth; ed. with an introd. and
notes by Evelyn Underhill. *$1.75 Dutton 242

  “The manuscript of these papers was translated from the Flemish by C.
  A. Wynschenk-Dom. It presents three of the most important works of the
  great Flemish mystic, John of Ruysbroeck. He was born in 1273 at the
  village of Ruysbroeck, between Brussels and Hals, and lived during his
  entire life in his native province Brabant.” (R of Rs) “As in other
  works of this kind, the author is concerned with the qualities of the
  divine nature and with absorption of those qualities into the nature
  of the devout man. ... ‘Ecstatic absorption in God,’ says Miss
  Underhill, ‘formed only one side of Ruysbroeck’s religious life. True
  to his own doctrine of the “balanced career” of action and
  contemplation as the ideal of the Christian soul, his rapturous
  ascents toward divine reality were compensated by the eager and loving
  interest with which he turned toward the world of men.’” (Springf’d
  Republican)

  “An excellent rendering into English of three of the finest writings
  of Jan of Ruysbroeck, which have never been fully accessible in our
  own language. Miss Underhill, in an admirable preface, touches on his
  life and times, and sums up his teaching with great clearness and
  insight. Ruysbroeck was one of the great constructive mystics who
  represent and sum up the spiritual knowledge of their own and other
  times, transfusing and co-ordinating, in the light of their own rich
  experience and personality, the universal vision of God and of man’s
  relation to Him. ... The translator has done a great service in
  opening out to us the experience and teachings of one of the most
  lofty and spiritual minds of the Christian era.” G. K. S.

       + =Int J Ethics= 28:135 O ‘17 700w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:156 O ‘16

  “For the student of spiritual philosophy this book is a treasure of
  undeniable worth.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:552 My ‘17 170w

         =St Louis= 5:47 F ‘17

  “Ruysbroeck is one of the better guides for the modern mystics.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 15 ‘17 400w


=RYAN, JOHN AUGUSTINE.= Distributive justice; the right and wrong of our
present distribution of wealth. *$1.50 (1c) Macmillan 331 16-22456

  In this volume Father Ryan, author of “The living wage,” “discusses
  the justice of the processes by which the product of industry is
  distributed, considering the moral aspects of distribution with
  reference to the four classes—landowners, capitalists, business men,
  and laborers. The rights and obligations of these four classes
  constitute the main subject of the work, while an effort is made to
  propose reforms that would remove the principal defects of the present
  system and bring about a larger measure of social justice.” (R of Rs)

  “One might, perhaps, criticise other minor features of this excellent
  book, but such criticism would not detract from its great merit as a
  logical and lucid exposition of a most important subject, pervaded by
  a spirit of sweet reasonableness that charms even when it may not
  convince.” J. E. Le Rossignol

       + =Am Econ R= 7:377 Je ‘17 1950w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:246 Mr ‘17

  “One of the most important books that have appeared within the last
  decade. Many thoughtful Americans, already well acquainted with the
  socio-political theories and programs of socialists, of single-taxers,
  of syndicalists, and of classical economists, have been ignorant of
  the tendencies of Catholic social politics. Dr Ryan’s book is not a
  history of Catholic social politics—such a work is still to be
  written. Rather, it is a painstaking critique of the morality of
  private land-ownership and rent, of private capital and interest, of
  profits and wages; and its significance lies in the fact that the
  morality in question is the moral teaching of the Roman Catholic
  church and that the thoughtful American who reads it has no longer any
  excuse for being ignorant of the meaning of Catholic social politics.”
  C. J. H. Hayes

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:766 N ‘17 1750w

  “Typical of his argument is an omission of any discussion of the
  population question, evidently upon the ground that numbers are not,
  or should not be, subject to human control. In fact, despite elaborate
  arguments, it is evident that the real questions at issue are all
  contained in his assumptions. The volume bears the nihil obstat and
  imprimatur of the church.” W. H. Hamilton

         =Ann Am Acad= 72:239 Jl ‘17 230w

         =Ath= p38 Ja ‘17 160w

  “Not merely the layman, but even more acutely, the student of ethics
  and moral theology has long desired a competent treatise on the
  Catholic doctrine of property, applying the traditional principles of
  our authorities to present day problems and conditions. ... Hence this
  volume is a very valuable contribution to our ethics library.”

       + =Cath World= 104:545 Ja ‘17 350w

  “The author is associate professor of political science at the
  Catholic university of America.”

         =Cleveland= p38 Mr ‘17 80w

  “The book is written from a Christian standpoint and makes use of the
  whole realm of literature bearing on the subject. ... And if it adds
  but little to the body of economic doctrine, but impregnates economic
  theory with an ethical ideal, it deserves most hearty commendation.”

       + =Dial= 62:110 F 8 ‘17 350w

  “From the author of ‘The living wage’ one has learned to expect
  scholarship and sincerity, and sympathy for the tribulations of
  ordinary folks. Dr Ryan’s new book ‘Distributive justice,’ is
  nevertheless a genuine disappointment. The author has set himself the
  ungrateful task of demonstrating the justice of an industrial system
  and at the same time, the injustice of its operation.”

       — =Ind= 90:435 Je 2 ‘17 220w

  “In the main his views are those held by economists of liberal views.
  The essential elements of the present system of distribution—private
  ownership of land and capital—are defended against single taxers and
  socialists. The novel thing about Professor Ryan’s book is the unusual
  method by which he reaches his conclusions. Natural rights, chiefly as
  set forth by the Christian Fathers, form the base from which the
  argument proceeds, but there is a large admixture of purely economic
  considerations. The book will be useful as a careful résumé of the
  chief economic reforms which are at present under consideration. As a
  piece of philosophical inquiry it is curious rather than interesting.”

     + — =Nation= 105:269 S 6 ‘17 270

  “The most comprehensive and dignified existing treatise on the ethics
  of economic reform.” A. S. J.

         =N Y Br Lib= News 4:8 Ja ‘17

       + =New Repub= 10:79 F 17 ‘17 1050w

  “Making use of Father Ryan’s favorite word, ‘justification,’ it may be
  said that his book affords ample justification to any person who
  succeeds in amassing property no matter what the human suffering was
  that the laborers endured.” Frank Macdonald

       — =N Y Call= p14 F 11 ‘17 900w

  “His book is solid, learned, well argued. His intent commands
  sympathy. Only the malicious and uncharitable could condemn or dissent
  without reserve. But after passing his four hundredth page he surmises
  that his readers will be ‘disappointed and dissatisfied’ that his
  labors have produced nothing better. His rules of justice and
  proposals for reform are confessedly complex, indefinite. ... It may
  be doubted whether books like these help progress much, for all their
  good intentions.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:65 F 25 ‘17 650w

         =R of Rs= 55:108 Ja ‘17 90w

  “John A. Ryan is associate professor of political science at the
  Catholic university of America.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 520w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p638 D 28 ‘16 90w


=RYAN, MARAH ELLIS (MARTIN) (MRS S. ERWIN RYAN) (ELLIS MARTIN, pseud.).=
Druid path. *$1.35 (1c) McClurg 17-4311

  Six stories told in the spirit of old Irish legend. Only the last, a
  story of the recent revolution, is modern and in this also the author
  has succeeded in suggesting the atmosphere of the old tales of the
  heroes. The titles are: The druid path; The enchanting of Doirenn;
  Liadan and Kurithir; Dervail Nan Ciar; Randuff of Cumanac; The dark
  rose. The book has decorations and endpieces designed by Will
  Vreeland.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 7 ‘17 250w

  “It is unusual to find in an American writer the quality which
  distinguishes the work of Fiona Macleod, but the same poetic mysticism
  which haunts those imaginative tales is to be found in ‘The druid
  path.’ The author has infused her characters with such reality that
  they become living men and women, whose passions lay violent hold upon
  the reader. ... The publishers have produced a book which is
  typographically worthy of the exceptional literary merit of the
  stories.”

       + =Dial= 62:106 F 8 ‘17 250w

       + =R of Rs= 55:664 Je ‘17 50w




                                   S


=SABATINI, RAFAEL.= Snare. *$1.25 (1½c) Lippincott 17-29537

  This novel pictures “an incident of Wellington’s campaign against the
  French in Portugal. Wellington was out to save Portugal, but there
  were traitors in high places secretly opposing his methods and playing
  the spy for the enemy. ... All depended on secrecy and unity of
  action. Suddenly the drunken blunder of a young English officer gives
  the plotters their chance to upset the delicate balance. Their
  influence causes the Portuguese council of regency to demand that the
  culprit be made a scapegoat. He is at large, and it falls to his
  brother-in-law, O’Moy, British adjutant-general at Lisbon, to promise
  that he shall be shot when taken.” (Bookm) The disentangling of the
  coil of circumstances developing from this situation occupies the
  remainder of this romantic narrative.

  “Mr Sabatini shows his quality by giving his personæ enough
  characterisation to lift the performance from the early status of the
  cheap thriller to the celestial plane of romance.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:206 O ‘17 300w

  “An absorbing and well-characterized romance.”

       + =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 100w

  “Swift-moving, picturesque, and well told.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:274 Jl 22 ‘17 300w

       + =Outlook= 116:522 Ag 1 ‘17 70w

  “Mr Sabatini vividly recreates local color and revivifies the distant
  scene. The characters are broadly sketched, particularly that of the
  ‘Iron duke.’ It is a story in which fact and fiction are delightfully
  blended and one that is entertaining in high degree from first to
  last.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 550w

  “We sometimes forget how good a tale he has set forth in reflecting
  how much better it might become in the hands of a playwright of
  genius. It has all the essentials of a moving play.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p140 Mr 22 ‘17 600w


=SABIN, ALVAH MORTON.= Industrial and artistic technology of paint and
varnish. 2d ed thoroughly rev il *$3.50 Wiley 667 17-115

  “The book opens with a section of definitions and brief fundamental
  descriptions, such as how varnish is made; what linoxyn is; what
  pigments and paints are. This is followed by a discussion of the
  history of paints and varnishes, introducing the original quotations,
  Greek and Latin, about the earliest processes. The author leads up to
  the technology of varnish by a discussion of linseed oil; after
  finishing with varnish, he runs off into japans, driers, rosin,
  shellac and the other spirit varnishes, cellulose and celluloid
  coatings, etc. There is after this a most informing section on
  paint. ... The rest of the book is devoted essentially to the
  engineering application of paints and varnishes and materials intended
  to serve the same purpose of protection or ornamentation.”—Engin N

         =A L A Bkl= 13:278 Mr ‘17

  “The man who reads for entertainment as well as instruction will
  appreciate this book. It is a technical work in the true sense of the
  word; but it is written with the rare style of a classical scholar,
  and humor is not lacking. It is labeled a second edition, but it is
  virtually a new book—due to the development of the art and the changed
  affiliations of the author—he is now a paint and not a varnish man.”

       + =Engin N= 77:437 Mr 15 ‘17 450w


=SACHER, HARRY=, ed. Zionism and the Jewish future. maps *$1 (1c)
Macmillan 296 17-95

  The purpose of this volume is to “set before English-speaking readers
  the meaning and achievement of Zionism.” The introduction to the
  volume is written by Dr Charles Weizmann, who says that the Jewish
  problem, while it has different aspects in different countries, is
  essentially the problem of “fitting into the modern world a national
  group which has survived from ancient times without the ordinary
  attributes of nationhood.” Among the contributions to the book are: A
  century of Jewish history, by H. Sacher; Anti-Semitism, by Albert M.
  Hyamson; The Hebrew revival, by Leon Simon; The history of Zionism, by
  R. Gottheil; The Jews and the economic development of Palestine, by S.
  Tolkowsky. The work was prepared in Great Britain but the authors
  represent several countries, including Palestine.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:286 Ap ‘17

  “A book written from the Zionistic viewpoint and frankly propagandist,
  but presenting an excellent brief summary of the movement today.”

       + =Cleveland= p147 D ‘16 20w

  “Its editor is a distinguished British journalist; among the
  contributors to its pages are civil servants of the British
  government, Jewish religious leaders, and American college
  professors.” H. M. Kallen

         =Dial= 62:60 Ja 25 ‘17 750w

       + =Ind= 90:517 Je 16 ‘17 60w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:221 Mr ‘17 60w

         =St Louis= 15:47 F ‘17

  Reviewed by the Earl of Cromer

       + =Spec= 117:187 Ag 12 ‘16 1350w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 N 16 ‘16 400w

  “Weak from the point of view of propaganda, strong as literary
  efforts.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p447 S 21 ‘16 1700w


=SAFRONI-MIDDLETON=, A Vagabond’s Odyssey. il *$2.50 (1c) Dodd 910 (Eng
ed 17-14533)

  “This is another pleasantly written volume of unconventional travel,
  by the author of ‘Sailor and beachcomber,’ who describes it as the
  second instalment of his autobiography. The book is filled with
  variety, and brings before us with vividness and ‘sparkle’ some of the
  writer’s experiences and adventures in many lands—among them the
  United States, Samoa, Japan, Australia and New Zealand, Spain, and the
  south of France. During an earlier visit to Samoa the author became
  acquainted with Stevenson, of whom some reminiscences are
  included.”—Ath

         =A L A Bkl= 14:56 N ‘17

       + =Ath= p104 F ‘17 130w

  “This ‘Odyssey’ might have been written by a man who never stirred
  outside his study, so curiously unconvincing is the impression left on
  the reader’s mind. The moralizings, reflections, and would-be eloquent
  descriptions are shallow and tawdry.”

       — =Nation= 105:611 N 29 ‘17 100w

  “The South Seas made a vivid impression on the author, and the poet
  continually surges uppermost in him when he swings into one of his
  frequent descriptions of the land and its beauty. A valuable feature
  of Mr Safroni-Middleton’s book is found in its picture of Robert Louis
  Stevenson. It is neither long nor deep in analysis, but it is
  picturesque.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:369 S 30 ‘17 600w

  “Mr Safroni-Middleton is rich in prejudices and one-sided views as
  well as good stories; but we can forgive him the former in view of the
  latter.”

       + =Sat R= 123:111 F 3 ‘17 1500w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p39 Ja 25 ‘17 1000w


Sainte Séductre; an inner view of the Boche at bay, by Exile X; American
ed., rev. and ed., by R: Wilmer Rowan. *$1.25 Liberty pub. assn., 110 W.
40th st. N.Y. 17-16312

  Sainte Séductre is a narrative in the form of a drama, with eight
  scenes or “Dialogues.” The scene is laid “somewhere in Germany,” at
  the headquarters of certain German commanders and in the huts of the
  starving Belgian and French exiles. “It revolves about a scheme
  originated by General von A—— to save Germany, already defeated, by
  the adoption of a pretended democratic form of government, which shall
  secure her friends among all the nations composing the final Council
  of peace.” (Boston Transcript)

  “To bring about a better understanding of the internal conditions of
  Imperial Germany today; to bring especially to public opinion in the
  United States a warning too little heeded, if at all understood, and
  to emphasize that ‘at present it is the duty of every true American to
  acquaint himself thoroughly with each particular element of the
  “Teutonic peril”’ was this story of ‘Sainte Séductre’ translated, and
  revised to render it more compelling for American readers.” F. B.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 S 5 ‘17 880w

  “It offers material which ought to be borne in mind in whatever
  discussions of peace the future may see. The book was written in the
  white heat of intellectual conviction, rather than passion.”

       + =Dial= 63:281 S 27 ‘17 250w

         =Outlook= 116:627 Ag 22 ‘17 130w


=SALES SERVICE COMPANY.=[2] Selling your services. *$1 (6c) Sales
service co., 101 Park av., N.Y. 658 17-11356

  Other titles for the book might be “How to secure a position,” or,
  more colloquially, “How to get a job.” The authors believe that, by
  following its suggestions, “the average man will improve his chances
  of getting a hearing and, finally, of securing the job for which he is
  best suited.” The chapters are very brief and each is devoted to some
  special item. Many sample letters of application are presented.

       + =Cleveland= p70 My ‘17 10w

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:604 Je 21 ‘17 120w

  “Well worth the reading of anyone seeking a position.”

       + =Engin Rec= 75:476 Mr 24 ‘17 60w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:464 My ‘17 60w


=SALTER, WILLIAM MACKINTIRE.= Nietzsche the thinker. *$3.50 (2c) Holt
193 17-25449

  This book, by the author of “First steps in philosophy,” “Anarchy or
  government?” etc., is “a contribution to the understanding of
  Nietzsche.” Mr Salter limits himself to Nietzsche’s “fundamental
  points of view—noting only in passing or not at all his thoughts on
  education, his later views of art and music, his conception of woman,
  his interpretation of Christianity and attitude to religion.”
  (Preface) The book was in substance written before the present
  European war, and the author does not find Nietzsche “touching it in
  any special way” except as “a diagnostician of the general conditions
  which appear to have given birth to it.” Three introductory chapters
  cover Nietzsche’s relation to his time, his life and personal traits,
  some characteristics of his thinking, etc. The author then divides
  Nietzsche’s intellectual life into three periods, and considers it by
  period. Mr Salter believes that Nietzsche, far from reflecting the
  age, is “a force antagonistic to the dominant forces about us”; that
  “he has changed nothing, whether in thought or public policy”; and
  that “even in Germany ... his counsels and ideas have been far more
  disregarded than followed.” Nevertheless Mr Salter believes Nietzsche
  to be so important that perhaps in the near future “we shall be
  speaking of a pre-Nietzschean and a post-Nietzschean period in
  philosophical, and particularly in ethical and social analysis and
  speculation—and that those who have not made their reckoning with him
  will be as hopelessly out of date as those who have failed similarly
  with Kant.”

  “It is evidently the result of wide reading and deep study of his
  subject; but unfortunately the attempt, not merely to restate
  Nietzsche’s thoughts, ‘but to rethink them, using more or less my own
  language,’ is not helped by some clumsy construction and faulty
  punctuation.”

     + — =Ath= p41 Ja ‘18 70w

  “Scholarly exposition of Nietzsche’s doctrines.” C. H. P. Thurston

     + — =Bookm= 46:290 N ‘17 60w

  “Interpretations of Nietzsche are many, but usually they are nine
  parts comment to one of exposition, whereas Mr Salter effaces his own
  opinions and lets Nietzsche explain himself by placing in logical
  relation to each other the thoughts which Nietzsche sprinkled at
  random over his works.”

       + =Ind= 92:56 O 6 ‘17 110w

  “Mr Salter has done the English reading public a large service, for he
  has given them what is easily the best book in English and what will
  rank well among the best in other languages on a man, who before the
  war was much misunderstood and misrepresented and since the war has
  been flagrantly criticized and abused. ... In a way that may be said
  even to make further study and exposition unnecessary, at least for a
  long time, he has presented and explained the philosophy itself, but
  its importance as possibly contributing significantly to the
  philosophy of an era, and so its place in the history of philosophy,
  he has not duly considered.” A. H. Lloyd

     + — =J Philos= 15:103 F 14 ‘18 3450w

  “Whatever merits the book may have must be dug for by studious readers
  who are more adept at these mystical numbers than we are. If Mr Salter
  has really intended a generalization, we can only regretfully say that
  he has not ‘got it across’ to us, though that may not be his fault,
  but our own stupidity. But for those who love interminable preaching
  there is surely here an inexhaustible mine from which to dig
  problematical nuggets of wisdom, which they can—if able—assort and
  assay for themselves.” J. W.

       — =N Y Call= p14 N 4 ‘17 800w

         =Outlook= 118:131 Ja 23 ‘18 730w

  “It is—broadly speaking—an altogether new Nietzsche who emerges from
  the pages of this expository critique.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:217 F ‘18 110w


=SALTYKOV, MICHAEL EVGRAFOVICH (SHCHEDRIN, pseud.).= Family of noblemen;
tr. by A. Yarmolinsky. *$1.50 (1c) Boni & Liveright

  “Saltykov, author of ‘A family of noblemen,’ famous in Europe as a
  satirist, is one of the very recent [Russian authors] to claim
  attention. ... This novel was published in 1880. ... It deals with the
  lives and fates of the members of a family of the small landed gentry
  of Russia through three generations, beginning before the abolition of
  serfdom and covering space of time of perhaps twenty-five years. ...
  Saltykov surveys the disintegration of a family upon which hereditary
  traits, weak wills, paucity of interests, and vodka work
  destruction.”—N Y Times

  “Russia has produced few books of a greater psychological depth and a
  more intimate realism. Unless all signs fail Saltykov has come to stay
  in English literature.” Abraham Yarmolinsky

     + — =Bookm= 46:485 D ‘17 270w

  “In many ways ‘A family of noblemen’ is a masterly piece of work,
  especially through the first half. In the latter part the author’s
  method falls below the artistic standard he has set in the first
  half.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:538 D 9 ‘17 870w


=SAMSON, REBECCA MIDDLETON.= Schoolgirl allies. il *$1.35 (1½c) Lothrop
17-23653

  The title suggests a war book, but the scene of this story for girls
  is laid in the Belgium of old days. “Tad” and “Sherry,” two American
  girls become pupils in the Pensionnat Van Pelt in Brussels. Their
  schoolmates are girls from many countries, including France, Russia
  and the British Isles. Sherry tells the story of their new
  experiences, and tells it with all a schoolgirl’s zest and love for
  exaggeration and dramatic effect.

  “It is good to be reminded that there were once happy days in
  Belgium. ... The few pictures make us wish for more.”

       + =Ind= 92:447 D 1 ‘17 40w

  “It is a long and interesting story, telling in detail the life of the
  girls of the pensionnat, so different from a school of the same class
  in this country.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:389 O 7 ‘17 250w

  “The two American girls, Adelaide and Sherida, are well portrayed, and
  the different foreign girls at the school are carefully
  differentiated.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 1 ‘17 130w


=SANBORN, FRANKLIN BENJAMIN.= Life of Henry David Thoreau; including
many essays hitherto unpublished, and some account of his family and
friends. il *$4 (3c) Houghton 17-13644

  Frank B. Sanborn was the last surviving member of the Concord group.
  His life of Thoreau was completed but shortly before his death in
  February, 1917. In his preface the author calls attention to the
  growing fame of Thoreau. “It now appears,” he says, “that a
  considerable part of the present fame of Concord in literature grows
  out of the life and writings of Henry Thoreau, whose writings had
  little circulation before his death in 1862.” There is more comment of
  this kind in the last chapter, where the author says, “My purpose in
  this volume has been to show how he coöperated in his own posthumous
  fame; how he built himself up in literature from boyhood, and that
  without becoming a pedant, or trying to form a school, or even a
  class. Along with this conception of him may go likewise what I
  personally feel, that there was a religious and a moral element in his
  nature which awaits the future for its full development.” Among the
  special chapters are two in which early essays are reprinted and
  others devoted to: Thoreau as friend, neighbor, and citizen; Thoreau
  as man of letters and of affairs; Thoreau as author in prose and
  verse. A catalog of Thoreau’s library is given in one of the
  appendixes.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:24 O ‘17

  “The extent of Mr Sanborn’s personal knowledge of Thoreau, his command
  of the resources of information about him, his possession of
  manuscripts and other records, placed ready at his hand a large amount
  of material for the making of a notable biography. But unfortunately
  Mr Sanborn possessed none of the skill of the biographer that would
  enable him to tell a well-ordered and coherent story of the progress
  of a man’s life. ... The result is, therefore, an excellent Thoreau
  biography in substance but not in form.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 My 29 ‘17 1550w

  “Sanborn had the gift that novelists envy, of presenting his hero
  living and real before the mind’s eye of his reader without blurring
  the figure by over-emphasis.”

       + =Cath World= 106:398 D ‘17 670w

  “The volume is not well arranged and coherent, however, and the
  author’s style is stilted even in his lapses into familiar anecdote.”

     + — =Cleveland= p120 N ‘17 130w

  “A feature of the book too important to be ignored is the
  illustrations, mostly reproductions of old family pictures, which to
  those who can interpret them are far better than pages of letterpress
  in giving an idea of the Thoreaus and their kin.” W: B. Cairns

     + — =Dial= 63:59 Jl 19 ‘17 1200w

       + =Ind= 91:476 S 22 ‘17 100w

         =Lit D= 55:34 S 29 ‘17 290w

         =Nation= 105:545 N 15 ‘17 80w

  “No one else could have done the work in just the easy, familiar, and
  reminiscent manner that marks it, and that gives it a peculiar value.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:205 My 27 ‘17 1950w

  “As compared with earlier memoirs—with Salt’s ‘Life’ of Thoreau, with
  Channing’s ‘Thoreau, the poet naturalist,’ and even with Mr Sanborn’s
  first biography of Thoreau, published in 1882—this new ‘Life’ by the
  late Frank B. Sanborn justifies itself as a needed and definitive
  work. So thorough has been the search for records and manuscripts that
  it is unlikely that there will ever be further discoveries of
  importance. It is a little to be regretted, perhaps, that the ‘life’
  as a whole is not more consecutively interesting; yet the materials
  contained in it, if presented rather dryly and with many digressions,
  are handled with skill and uniform good taste.”

 *   + — =No Am= 206:308 Ag ‘17 1650w

  “Mr Sanborn’s posthumous contribution to the world’s knowledge of his
  friend will probably furnish his own surest claim to remembrance in
  the future. It will certainly be indispensable to the student and
  lover of the rarely individual man of genius whom it seeks to
  portray.”

       + =Outlook= 116:301 Je 20 ‘17 1100w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:672 O ‘17 90w

         =Pratt= p49 O ‘17 10w

         =R of Rs= 56:104 Jl ‘17 90w

  “Sanborn’s ‘Life’ is less satisfactory than Henry Salt’s, which has
  the virtue of proportion, emphasis, focus, definite purpose; is less
  satisfactory, in some respects, than the earlier book by Sanborn. Yet
  it is far from superfluous. Of little use to one who does not know
  Thoreau, it is a treasury of Thoreauisms to those who already know him
  well.” Norman Foerster

 *   + — =Yale R= n s 7:430 Ja ‘18 1400w


=SANBORN, HELEN JOSEPHINE.= Anne of Brittany. il *$2 Lothrop 17-25141

  “A book which tells the life story of a duchess of Brittany who was
  twice crowned queen of France. Miss Sanborn, whose untimely death
  occurred while the book was in press, devoted much of her later life
  in securing knowledge of Anne of Brittany and her times. The
  introduction is by Professor Katherine Lee Bates, of Wellesley
  college. Twenty-seven full-page illustrations show us the Duchess
  Anne’s country and her famous castles.”—R of Rs

  “The reader has a sense of personal intercourse, a quality as rare as
  it is uncommon in biography, and one whose appeal is irresistible.” F.
  B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p11 O 13 ‘17 500w

  “The descriptions of her gowns, jewels, and the quaint ceremonies and
  festivals of court and castle are very interesting, but it is the
  woman herself who absorbs the reader.”

       + =Cleveland= p12 Ja ‘18 90w

  “Many illuminating glimpses of the age and the country are given in
  the course of the narrative.”

       + =Ind= 92:361 N 3 ‘17 40w

         =Lit D= 55:51 D 8 ‘17 60w

       + =R of Rs= 56:550 N ‘17 70w


=SANDAY, WILLIAM, and WILLIAMS, NORMAN POWELL.= Form and content in the
Christian tradition. *$2 Longmans 230 17-14538

  “‘Form and content in the Christian tradition’ is ‘a friendly
  discussion’ between W. Sanday, Lady Margaret professor of divinity at
  Oxford, and N. P. Williams, chaplain-fellow of Exeter college,
  Oxford. ... Both men write as members of the Church of England. This
  will lessen the appeal of the book to many American Protestants, for
  the reason that the Protestant sects do not accept the ecclesiastical
  tradition which has developed along with what may be called the
  religious tradition. Their Christianity is derived from the Bible, not
  from the church. But on the theological side Mr Williams, who states
  the traditional view, will have many supporters in the Protestant
  sects; as, on the other hand, will Dr Sanday, who stands for the
  liberal interpretation of scripture which has been growing in favor in
  the past half century.”—Springf’d Republican

  Reviewed by E. A. Cook

 *       =Am J Theol= 22:145 Ja ‘18 1150w

  “It is impossible, however, for an Anglican to defend the
  infallibility of a church which rests solely on the insecure
  foundation of private judgment or opinion. We can pardon Mr Williams
  his fling at ultramontanism and the inquisition in view of his strong
  though courteous indictment of modernism or rationalism in the Church
  of England of our day.”

         =Cath World= 105:260 My ‘17 220w

  “This will be a most interesting book not only to the student of
  theology, but to the student of human nature. ... The usefulness does
  not seem to us to lie in any results arrived at, but in the statement
  and restatement by each side of their principles; and hardly less in
  the exhibition of the temper of mind which accompanies those
  principles respectively.”

       + =Spec= 118:209 F 17 ‘17 320w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 5 ‘17 1550w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p8 Ja 4 ‘17 1050w


=SANTAYANA, GEORGE.= Egotism in German philosophy. *$1.50 Scribner 193

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “The passages just transcribed and the other passages cited hardly do
  justice to the brilliancy, the incisiveness, and the cruelty of this
  remarkable book. ... The work is really too sketchy and too abstract
  and its tone too biting and passionate to carry the conviction that is
  due the truths it expresses. ... It should be supplemented with John
  Dewey’s ‘German philosophy and the war.’ The two together will give a
  fairly adequate idea of the influence of philosophic thinking on the
  motives and institutions of men.” H. M. Kallen

         =Dial= 63:64 Jl 19 ‘17 920w

  “Very suggestive but somewhat irritating book.” A. Fawkes

         =Int J Ethics= 27:380 Ap ‘17 650w

  “The author would have been wiser, if he had depicted the supposed
  English or French characteristics discovered in German philosophy as
  well as the supposed German characteristics discoverable in English or
  French philosophy, as it is really possible to do. ... Sometimes he is
  virtually passing judgment on non-German philosophy no less or even
  more severely than on German philosophy. ... For the qualities
  responsible for the condemnation are common to both, or are
  outweighing in non-German philosophy.” Kojoro Sugimori

         =Int J Ethics= 27:381 Ap ‘17 1000w

  “The argument is obscure, and scarcely convincing. Mr Santayana’s
  characterization of the German national genius is witty, apt, and
  irresistibly quotable. In the judgment of the present writer it is
  substantially true; as true, perhaps, as any such sweeping
  generalization can hope to be. Nevertheless, there are omissions and
  exaggerations in the account that are so obvious as to suggest
  caricature rather than criticism.” R. B. Perry

     – + =J Philos= 14:637 N 8 ‘17 1150w

       + =Lit D= 54:776 Mr 17 ‘17 370w

  “Dr Santayana has long enjoyed the distinction of being the Shaw of
  the philosophers, supremely skilful as an artificer of phrases and
  diabolically clever. In this book he surpasses himself. It is fairly
  dazzling. ... It is true that the author continually yields to the
  besetting sin of the clever writer in sacrificing accuracy on the
  altar of wit. ... The reader should study the sketches in the same
  spirit in which he would examine a volume of sketches by a clever
  cartoonist. If he reads the book in this fashion, not taking it too
  seriously, he will be highly entertained, if sometimes irritated.
  Questions of accuracy, of fidelity, are irrelevant. ... As a
  discussion of German philosophy, this book must not be taken
  seriously.”

         =Nation= 104:339 Mr 22 ‘17 1250w

  “The philosophical views of Prof. G. Santayana need to be taken into
  account in considering his new book. For the work, besides being a
  trenchant attack on German thought, must be regarded to some extent a
  polemic in behalf of a particular point of view. Prof. Santayana, like
  the man in the street, distrusts metaphysical idealism.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 4 ‘17 1100w


=SAPPER, pseud.= No Man’s Land. il *$1.25 (1½c) Doran 17-23333

  This book is by the author of “Michael Cassidy, sergeant” and “Men,
  women and guns.” Part 1, “The way to the land,” describes the
  experiences of an officer bound for the front; Part 2 “The land,” and
  Part 3 “Seed time,” are made up of seventeen stories and sketches
  telling us how the men in the trenches live, fight and die; in Part 4,
  “Harvest,” the author tells how British militarism has taught men the
  valuable lessons “of playing for the side and unselfishness,” but adds
  that “there must be some other method of teaching the lessons.” Some
  of the stories are grave, others gay. “Seed time,” the longest story
  in the book, describes the evolution of Reginald Simpkins, shopwalker,
  into an expert sniper. “‘The man trap’ relates how a too ingenious
  subaltern adapted a disused dug-out as a trap for over-curious Germans
  and caught in it his own general and colonel. ... ‘Bendigo Jones—his
  tree’ is a whimsical extravaganza on a post-impressionist sculptor,
  who, not having been exempted through the united efforts of his
  misguided friends, finds himself in the trenches.” (Spec)

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 26 ‘17 400w

  “Told with restraint and standing out from the average war fiction for
  their exceptional literary quality.”

       + =Cleveland= p132 D ‘17 30w

  “It is grim, coarse, sentimental, beautiful, gay, solemn and trifling
  by turns, but, as a whole, undeniably convincing. ... You are half
  through the middle chapters before you realize how steadily all that
  has seemed careless and overdone is carrying on toward an overwhelming
  sense of the kind of soldier who is doing the fighting and paying the
  price. ‘No man’s land’ is a strange, ill-written, confused and vivid
  book, pulled out of the frightful turmoil of the present. It is not
  art, but material for art.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:380 O 7 ‘17 750w

  “‘Sapper’ prefers to present what he knows in the guise of fiction,
  and yet he often seems to come nearer to the truth than the precise
  reporter with his field-glasses and his notebook. ... As in most war
  fiction, humour predominates. The soldiers do not treat the war as a
  joke, but they are incurably light-hearted, and their laughter helps
  them to face things too deep for tears. ‘Sapper’ as a jester is
  typical of a very large class of soldier-authors, but his literary
  quality is exceptional.”

       + =Spec= 119:169 Ag 18 ‘17 950w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 5 ‘17 360w

  “Will add to the reputation that ‘Sapper’ has already made for himself
  as a writer of war sketches. ... Unlike Mr Wells, who regards war as
  an affair primarily of the scientific management of aeroplanes and
  tanks, ‘Sapper’ teaches that it is upon the craving of the fighting
  man to kill, no matter what the cost to himself, that the issue
  depends; and where Mr Wells detects no bright spots but spurs in the
  officer of the old school, he sees the supreme quality—the power to
  persuade others to follow him willingly to this killing. ... Without
  glossing over the horrible, ‘Sapper’ employs the restraint which makes
  the imagination of the reader its ally. ... His English is crisp
  without being loose.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p362 Ag 2 ‘17 520w


=SARGENT, PORTER EDWARD.= Handbook of American private schools; an
annual publication. (Sargent’s handbook ser.) 3d ed il $2.50 P. E.
Sargent, 50 Congress st., Boston 373

  “The principal subjects considered are: Boys’ schools (arranged
  according to geographical position), military schools, girls’ schools,
  coeducational schools, schools and conservatories of music, schools of
  art, kindergarten training schools, schools of physical education,
  schools of expression and dramatic art, schools of the household arts,
  schools for the deficient, private schools of Canada, boys’ summer
  camps, girls’ summer camps. The editor supplies a bibliography of
  works in which principles are discussed. He also adds a list of
  newspapers and periodicals which treat more or less directly of
  educational subjects.”—Springf’d Republican

       + =Ind= 91:296 Ag 25 ‘17 70w

  “The 1917 edition shows numerous traces of editorial revision, and,
  considering the inevitable limitations of such a handbook, will be
  found full of well-classified information. ... While it is impossible
  that all the information should be critical, the book is workmanlike
  in all respects and shows a praiseworthy degree of editorial ability.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19’17 180w


=SARKAR, BENOY KUMAR, and RAKSHIT, HEMENDRA KISHOR.= Folk-element in
Hindu culture. *$5 Longmans 294 17-17531

  Professor Sarkar’s “contribution to socio-religious studies in Hindu
  folk-institutions” “is based on a study of some of the folk-arts,
  folk-traditions, folk-songs, and folk-festivals of Bengal, and is
  mainly concerned with the relations between Shaiva-cum-Shâktaism and
  Buddhism, descriptive and historical, among the Bengali-speaking
  population of eastern India. Several chapters deal with the Gambhîrâ,
  Gâjan, and Sâhiyâtrâ festivities; others treat of diverse topics, such
  as physical austerities practised by the people, folk-dances in
  religious festivals, the socio-religious life of the people of Bengal
  under the Pâlas, the tantric lore of mediæval Buddhism, and Islam in
  popular Hinduism. The author arrives at some interesting conclusions,
  of which two of the most important are that ‘the masses and the folk
  have contributed to the making of Hindu culture in all its phases no
  less than the court and the classes,’ and that the caste-system ‘has
  never been a disintegrating factor in Hindu communal existence, and is
  most probably a very recent institution.’” (Ath) The author states
  that this work is to a certain extent complementary to his “Positive
  background of Hindu sociology.”

         =Ath= p302 Je ‘17 200w

  “It is a book for the specialist, and for him has unique value.”

         =Lit D= 55:42 S 29 ‘17 300w

  “Some inductions are questionable, but the work is to be commended if
  only for the mass of first-hand material here collected.”

     + — =Nation= 105:460 O 25 ‘17 350w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:118 Ag ‘17

  “This is a very interesting and valuable book, being, so far as we
  know, the first detailed and accurate description in English of one of
  the many and varied rural festivities in which ‘gods’ days,’ as it
  were, take the place in Bengal of saints’ days in rustic Europe. Mr
  Sarkar treats exhaustively and with much enthusiasm and humour, of the
  religious festivities known in different parts of Bengal as the
  Gamphīrā, the Gājan, or the Sāhi-yātrā; ceremonial.”

     + — =Spec= 119:39 Jl 14 ‘17 850w

  “The scheme indicated in the title is too pretentious; the materials
  which give the book its value are not skilfully presented; and, as
  regards the religious songs, only an artist like Rabindranath Tagore
  could preserve the poetical fervour of the originals. At the same time
  it possesses some merits which make it a useful contribution to the
  study of popular religion in India, and it is provided with good
  indexes of subjects, names and references. It owes much of its value
  to a collection of notes contributed by Mr Haridas Palit. It would
  have been well if this information had been more largely used.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p233 My 17 ‘17 1400w


=SAROLEA, CHARLES.= French renascence, il *$2 Pott (*5s Unwin & Allen,
London) 844 17-12613

  “In an introduction flaming with love of liberty and love of France,
  Dr Sarolea outlines the story ... of the awakening of France, in
  1914. ... It is of some of the lives, which woven into the fabric of
  the nation have become inseparable from it, of whom Dr Sarolea writes
  in these brief essays. ... The studies he presents are of Montaigne,
  between whom and Nietzsche the author points a most interesting
  analogy; Pascal, with whom Cardinal Newman is contrasted—‘the two
  greatest names perhaps in the religious literature of the modern
  world’; Madame de Maintenon, Elizabeth Charlotte, Duchess of
  Orleans; ... Rousseau; Marie Antoinette, ‘before the revolution’;
  Mirabeau, Robespierre, Napoleon—the ‘real Napoleon’ and ‘Napoleon the
  socialist’; Balzac, Flaubert, Maeterlinck, Bergson and Poincaré.”
  Boston Transcript

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 16 ‘17 530w

       — =Cath World= 105:248 My ‘17 370w

  “An agreeable but insubstantial collection of occasional articles and
  book reviews. ... Dr Sarolea writes a clear and fluent, though quite
  undistinguished style, but it seems a pity that he should permit
  himself such oddities as ‘impunately’ and ‘presigeotus.’ ... One is
  grateful for the plain speech concerning the ‘Germanomania’ of the
  years before the war. ‘Even estimable mediocrities like Eucken were
  proclaimed original thinkers’ is a specimen.”

     + — =Dial= 62:316 Ap 5 ‘17 200w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:169 N ‘16

  “These essays are exceedingly interesting and marked by genuine
  critical appreciation and discrimination. There is, for instance,
  matter of real novelty and value presented in the chapter on the
  private life of Napoleon I and in the one on Napoleon as a socialist.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:182 My 6 ‘17 150w

  “Decidedly anti-German in tone.” M. J.

         =St Louis= 15:183 Je ‘17 30w

  “It seems a pity that Dr Sarolea, who wrote an excellent book on the
  Anglo-German problem, should have chosen to praise France in a volume
  which has rather a cheap air of paradox.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p195 Ap 27 ‘16 650w


=SASTRI, K. S. RAMASWAMI.= Sir Rabindranath Tagore: his life,
personality, and genius. $2.50 Brentano’s (Ganesh & co., Madras, India)

  “A comprehensive biography of Rabindranath Tagore by a fellow
  countryman gives a more complete interpretation of his genius than it
  is perhaps possible for an English critic or biographer to undertake.
  Mr Sastri writes of Tagore’s artistic and spiritual ancestry, and of
  his share in the new Indian renaissance now going on, and observes
  that if the European renaissance was the release of the human spirit
  per se, that of India is the liberation of the human spirit that is in
  harmony with the divine, and that the genius of the great Bengali poet
  focalizes the gathering of the forces that will give new birth to
  liberty.”—R of Rs

  “In spite of its flowery style, its endless repetition and triple
  padding of quotation, his book forms a real addition to our knowledge
  of Tagore and the mental life of India.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:68 F 25 ‘17 500w

  “Without offense to the spirit and the labors of Mr Ernest Rhys, who
  has written an admirable life of the Hindu poet, Mr Sastri’s work is
  in several respects a more satisfying exposition of the genius of
  Tagore and will be of great assistance to the student of his
  teachings.”

       + =R of Rs= 54:670 D ‘16 400w

  “The enthusiasm of the Madrasi author for the work and teaching of the
  national poet of Bengal is manifest on every page. ... But the value
  of the study is marred by diffuseness and frequent repetition.
  Quotations, relevant and irrelevant, abound, and are often taken from
  obscure writers.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p382 Ag 10 ‘16 500w


=SATOW, SIR ERNEST MASON.= Guide to diplomatic practice. 2v *$9 Longmans
341.7 (Eng ed 17-14175)

  This is the first of a series of Contributions to international law
  and diplomacy. L. Oppenheim, the general editor, says that the work is
  unique “with regard to the method of treatment of the subject, as well
  as the selection of the topics discussed and in the amount of original
  research which it embodies.” The book is meant to be of service alike
  to the international lawyer, the diplomatist and the student of
  history. “For this reason not only the legal side of diplomacy, but
  also its practical side had constantly to be kept in view, an outline
  of all the important congresses and conferences had to be included,
  and the different kinds of international compacts had to be treated in
  some detail.” Volume 1 consists of two parts, dealing with Diplomacy
  in general and Diplomatic agents. Volume 2 treats of International
  meetings and transactions, including chapters on Mediation and
  Arbitration. Lists of references are given in appendixes.

  “A scholarly and exhaustive treatment.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:78 D ‘17

  “It contains chapters which no serious student of international law
  can afford to neglect. These volumes are marred by many misprints.” L.
  B. Evans

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:779 N ‘17 560w

  “There are numerous guides diplomatiques and treatises on diplomatic
  law and practice in other languages but aside from Foster’s ‘Practice
  of diplomacy’ there is no other work in English which may be compared
  with this, either in its scope or purpose. It is packed with
  documentary and other illustrative material: specimen copies of
  letters of credence, full powers, instructions, extracts from notes,
  quotations from diplomatic manuals, etc., most of which are printed in
  the original language in which they were written, this on the
  principle that the attempt to translate them into English would in
  many cases impair their value.” J. W. Garner

     + + =Ann Am Acad= 73:240 S ‘17 550w

  “These volumes, filled as they are with information upon subjects in
  reference to which there is a considerable amount of popular
  misconception, will not only be very valuable for reference, but also
  of interest to the general reader.”

       + =Ath= p249 My ‘17 200w

  “A highly opportune, as well as in many respects remarkably
  interesting survey. ... The second volume is even more full of
  interest than the first; but it takes the historical reader over what
  is likely to be to him more familiar ground, a large portion of which
  has already been mapped out by previous writers and editors. I do not
  know why Sir Ernest Satow has not given a fuller list of collections
  of treaties, from the standard volumes of Koch and Schoell to the
  useful selection recently put together by Mr R. B. Mowat.” A. W. Ward

 *   + – =Eng Hist R= 32:418 Jl ‘17 5400w

  “Sir Ernest Satow is one of the most distinguished English
  diplomatists of the last twenty-five years. He has had infinite
  experience, and unlimited opportunities for observation. He has
  written a guide to diplomatic practice which supersedes every previous
  work upon the subject. It is exact, it is exhaustive, it is
  scholarly.” H. J. L.

     + + =New Repub= 12:80 Ag 18 ‘17 1800w

       + =St Louis= 15:358 O ‘17 50w

  “Sir Ernest Satow has written a learned and interesting book. ... Here
  is a British ambassador revealing to the public the mysteries of
  diplomatic practice as if it were an ordinary calling and explaining
  in great detail the niceties of diplomatic etiquette. ... It will be
  evident that Sir Ernest Satow has no sympathy with the demand for the
  reform of our diplomatic service which has been heard of late.”

         =Spec= 118:673 Je 16 ‘17 2200w

  “His experiences as representative of this country at various courts
  enables him to speak with precision and authority upon points as to
  which the books are silent or indefinite. Of the existing treatises,
  some—for example, de Martens’s and Comte Garden’s—are carefully
  compiled. But they do not always faithfully record the practice of the
  present day, which has cast off something of the formalism of past
  times and has not escaped certain democratic influences.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p206 My 3 ‘17 1800w


=SAWYER, RUTH (MRS ALBERT C. DURAND).= Herself, himself and myself. il
*$1.35 (2c) Harper 17-25083

  The scene is laid partly in America and partly in Ireland. “Herself,”
  Judith Drene, is the orphan daughter of a rich banker who, after
  losing most of his money, shot himself; “Myself,” Nora Kelley, is the
  Irish nurse who mothered her and brought her up; “Himself,” Dr John
  Fox, is the young Irish doctor, the “wise lad,” who came back from the
  war and married Judith in the ivy-covered church at Donegal.

  “A simple, wholesome story.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:98 D ‘17

  “A book of sentiment undisguisedly, but of sentiment upon a higher
  plane, guarded and mellowed by true humour in contrast with that
  feminine ‘brightness’ which characterises the novel of the ‘glad’
  sort.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:340 N ‘17 100w

  “There is even in this earliest part of the book a delightful vein of
  humor mingling with the sadness.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 F 6 ‘18 600w

       + =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 60w

  “Evidently intended for those who like an abundance of sugar in their
  fiction. ... The little tale is very much padded, but it has some
  dainty bits here and there. The first chapters, which deal with
  Judith’s childhood, are the best and quite prettily done. Later, the
  story grows monotonous.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:414 O 21 ‘17 270w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 190w


=SCANDLIN, HORACE WINTHROP.= Wicked John Goode. il *$1 (3c) Doran 364
17-11002

  Thomas Mott Osborne writes an introduction to this book and Rev. J. G.
  Hallimond of the Bowery mission adds a word at the end vouching for
  the truth of the story Mr Scandlin has told. It is the story of a
  criminal and his reformation. John Goode was incorrigible at the age
  of ten. At eleven he ran away from home, and at once began his career
  of crime. He became familiar with every sort of institution from a
  so-called protectory to Sing Sing. Thru the instrumentality of Mrs
  Booth, he was set free, but, having no sense of honor, broke parole.
  Finally he was reclaimed, but not, as Mr Osborne significantly points
  out, by any of the agencies provided by society. From each of these
  institutions he emerged a worse man than he went in. He is now said to
  be one of the workers in the mission to which he owes his
  regeneration.

  “Nothing but hard, cold and sometimes cruel facts are here recorded,
  if we accept the testimony of the two authorities that flank the
  narrative. There is, moreover, an inherent evidence in the very
  graphic recital that John Goode, the ex-convict, is no imaginary
  person. The book is a stirring appeal to reform our reformatory
  institutions. ... The Bowery mission, through its spiritual and
  industrial methods, is doing a unique work, and that work is here
  sketched.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 9 ‘17 280w

  “Personally and socially, this is a suggestive and challenging book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:167 Ap 29 ‘17 320w


=SCARBOROUGH, DOROTHY.= Supernatural in modern English fiction. *$2 (2c)
Putnam 823 17-28912

  Dr Scarborough’s study covers the nineteenth century, with particular
  attention to the fiction of the last thirty years. For her beginnings
  she goes back to Horace Walpole, “the father of the terror novel.” His
  “Castle of Otranto,” with Mrs Radcliffe’s “Mysteries of Udolpho” and
  Mary Shelley’s “Frankenstein” shortly following, was the first of a
  long line. Modern masters of the supernatural include, among others,
  Henry James, Mark Twain, H. G. Wells, Algernon Blackwood and Lord
  Dunsany. The author says, “I deal with ghosts and devils by and large,
  in an impressionistic way. I don’t know much about them; I have no
  learned theories of causation. I only love them, I only marvel at
  their infinite variety and am touched by their humanity, their
  likeness to mortals.” Contents: The Gothic romance; Later influences;
  Modern ghosts; The devil and his allies; Supernatural life; The
  supernatural in folk-tales; Supernatural science; Conclusion; Index.
  The bibliography, too long for inclusion in this volume, is to be
  published separately.

         =Ath= p659 D ‘17 350w

  “Able, comprehensive, and not seldom amusing survey. It is remarkable
  that there is no allusion to ‘A Christmas carol,’ though less notable
  works by Dickens are mentioned; and there might have been a reference
  to Marryat’s striking tale ‘The phantom ship.’”

     + — =Ath= p676 D ‘17 300w

  “The last place one would look for a ‘bestseller’ would be among
  doctors’ theses; yet this book, which more than earned the degree of
  Doctor of philosophy at Columbia for its author, has such a general
  appeal that it may conceivably have a large sale.” W: L. Phelps

       + =Bookm= 46:611 Ja ‘18 700w

  “Many names of many dealers in the supernatural appear and reappear in
  Dr Scarborough’s none too well ordered pages. We find references to
  Poe scattered through the book from its early to its later pages, and
  of this master of the weird and of many others it is impossible to
  gain a coherent understanding. ... She has made of her book a
  storehouse of treasure rather than a systematic history and study.” E.
  F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p11 O 6 ‘17 950w

       — =Dial= 63:590 D 6 ‘17 340w

  “One of the few monographs in the field of literature which must have
  been a pleasure to write. ... The work is beautifully indexed, so that
  the reader can turn in an instant to his favorite horror.”

       + =Ind= 92:192 O 27 ‘17 150w

  “It is one of the most interesting and valuable features of Dr
  Scarborough’s book that it includes such a host of pertinent examples
  of supernaturalism of all kinds and that it gives in almost every case
  some real criticism of the work of the different writers.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:467 N 11 ‘17 1800w

  “Will prove entertaining and useful to the reader who wishes to go
  a-ghosting in the pages of novels.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:553 N ‘17 90w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p558 N 15 ‘17 50w


=SCHAUFFLER, ROBERT HAVEN=, comp. and ed. Our flag in verse and prose.
il *$1.50 Moffat 808.8 A17-959

  “Poems, songs and prose extracts under the following heads: Spirit and
  significance; Old Glory’s history; In praise of Old Glory; Patriotism;
  Flags; A Flag day story (A man without a country, by E. E. Hale).
  Contains also an account by Francis Scott Key 3d of the writing of
  ‘The Star spangled banner,’ a history of the origin and development of
  the flag and directions for Flag day drills and exercises.”—Cleveland

  “He tells the familiar Betsy Ross story without questioning in any way
  its authenticity. Mr Schauffler’s selections cover a wide range. ...
  All the familiar songs about the flag are here. ... Mr Schauffler’s
  book will be a good one to place in the hands of every school teacher
  and pupil.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 8 ‘17 170w

         =Cleveland= p87 Jl ‘17 30w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:123 Ag ‘17

  “Contains the best that has been written in verse and prose to inspire
  patriotic devotion and to interpret the spirit and significance of the
  flag.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 100w


=SCHAYER, ERNEST RICHARD.= Good loser. *50c McKay 17-8204

  “A tennis expert, out of the game permanently with a broken ankle,
  happens upon a small boy practising strokes against a barn. He
  lingers, keen with the discovery of budding talent, and trains the
  little fellow through the summer in the art and the ethics of the
  game, to be modest, honest and courageous. Then he enters Billy in the
  junior tournament in the White mountains and Billy makes good on his
  teaching and loses the championship by refusing to win on the judge’s
  error. Incidentally the teacher, and Billy’s father who is in business
  trouble, learn also how to be good losers.” (Springf’d Republican) The
  story appeared in the American Magazine, June, 1916.

  “It is a short story, just a magazine article bound up in permanent
  form, but it has in quality what it lacks in quantity. And as for
  quantity, Mr Schayer tells his story, all that is necessary to tell,
  and stops. It is complete in its fifty-nine pages.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 170w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:128 Ap ‘17 20w


=SCHEFTEL, YETTA.=[2] Taxation of land value. *$2 Houghton 336.2 17-235

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “The best part of Miss Scheftel’s work, in the judgment of the
  reviewer, is the careful and complete account of the complicated land
  taxes of Australasia, Germany, and Great Britain. Her chapters on the
  Australasian experience constitute the most comprehensive discussion
  of this topic that has been given. The account of the German taxes on
  ‘unearned increment’ is based upon a thorough study of both primary
  and secondary German sources, and is easily the best account in
  English. ... The chapter on Municipal taxation in western Canada is
  less satisfactory, inasmuch as that topic has been much more
  exhaustively covered in Professor Haig’s report for the New York city
  committee on taxation of 1916. A few loose statements of economic
  theory are found. The index is inadequate for nearly five hundred
  pages of condensed facts.” A. N. Young

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:415 Je ‘17 700w

  “Scholarly and thorough, the best work on the subject, but needed only
  in large or special libraries.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:292 Ap ‘17

  “The newest and in many respects the best study of what is commonly
  known as the single tax. An excellent bibliography is appended.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:596 Ag ‘17 100w

  “A judicious, well-balanced treatment of land-value taxation in those
  countries where the scheme has been chiefly tried. Study is also given
  to the fiscal, economic and social effects of such taxes. Although
  single taxers have generally welcomed the adoption of land-value
  taxation as a vindication of their doctrines, the author points out
  that ‘not only in method of assessment and levy, but also in their
  rationale great differences exist’ between the single tax and
  land-value taxes.” F. T. S.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:240 Jl ‘17 300w

  “Miss Scheftel’s book is unquestionably an instance of work well done,
  and every reader will feel that it fully merited the $1,000 first
  prize awarded to it. Nor can there be any doubt that the contribution
  is one of real utility. What has been so laboriously brought together,
  and presented in such orderly and convenient shape, is a matter upon
  which many students of the land-tax question desire to be informed,
  and which is not easy of access in the scattered sources from which it
  has been gathered. The discussion, too, is not only intelligent, but
  thoroughly fair-minded.”

       + =Nation= 104:656 My 31 ‘17 600w

  “The book is a veritable storehouse of information for those
  interested in the subject and a valuable help toward improvement in
  methods of taxation.”

       + =Survey= 39:298 D 8 ‘17 420w


=SCHEIFLEY, WILLIAM H.= Brieux and contemporary French society. *$2
(2½c) Putnam 842 17-28835

  The author’s purpose is “to explain to American readers the social
  themes treated by Eugène Brieux in his dramas and their relation to
  French society.” In preparing the work, he has had two objects in
  view: “(1) a consideration of both the literary value and the purpose
  of each play of Brieux; (2) the testimony of other writers, either in
  critical or in creative work, regarding the conditions that gave rise
  to a particular play of Brieux and the extent to which it reflects the
  spirit of the time.” (Preface) The author considers it a matter for
  regret that American opinion of Brieux should so largely have been
  formed from “Damaged goods,” which he pronounces one of the
  dramatist’s poorest plays. Among the social problems to which special
  chapters are devoted are: The relation between parents and children;
  Charity, philanthropy, industrial beneficence; Marriage and the dowry;
  Divorce; Separation and the child; Venereal diseases. “Sincerity,”
  says the author in conclusion, “is Brieux’s predominant
  characteristic. ... Other good traits that stand out prominently in
  his dramas are faith, vigour, and courage.”

  “Mr Scheifley does not put forward any pretensions to be a critic of
  letters; but he has a sound working estimate of the plays of Brieux.”

       + =Ath= p676 D ‘17 140w

         =Cleveland= p4 Ja ‘18 50w

  “The American public owes a large debt of gratitude to Mr Scheifley
  for his scholarly and sympathetic treatment of Brieux. He has shown
  admirably Brieux’s sincerity and versatility, and amply justified, for
  American eyes, the place accorded to the author in his native land.”
  B: M. Woodbridge

       + =Dial= 64:67 Ja 17 ‘18 1000w

  “This volume of appreciative criticism is an incentive toward a more
  intimate acquaintance with Eugène Brieux.”

       + =Lit D= 56:35 Ja 26 ‘18 450w

       + =N Y Times= 22:578 D 30 ‘17 150w

  “A comprehensive and detailed study.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:552 N ‘17 130w

  “A sketch of French life which is well worth study. ... The book is,
  in the nature of things, superficial.”

     + — =Spec= 119:sup623 D 1 ‘17 1450w

  “An able and penetrating survey of the various questions of social and
  economic life in France as they are reflected in Brieux’s dramas.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 N 22 ‘17 750w

  “The book is marked by careful industry and attention given to the
  testimony of other writers.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p542 N 8 ‘17 110w


=SCHEVILL, FERDINAND.= Karl Bitter; a biography. il *$2 Univ. of Chicago
press 17-16077

  “In a thin volume of less than seventy text pages published under the
  auspices of the National sculpture society, the sculptor’s
  brother-in-law, Ferdinand Schevill tells ... the essentially romantic
  story of the young Austrian who, landing in New York in his
  twenty-second year with scarce a penny in his pocket, was, before
  three years had passed, executing the colossal scheme of sculpture
  upon the Administration building of the World’s fair at Chicago. He
  was killed by a reckless automobile driver before he had reached the
  age of forty-eight, having been director of sculpture at three
  expositions, a member of the Art commission of New York city, and
  twice president of the Sculpture society. Such a career is evidence
  enough of an unusual character as well as of unusual talents, and Mr
  Schevill makes us see the honesty, the energy, the tact, the great
  organizing ability, and the public spirit which accomplished so
  much—above all, he makes us see the intense Americanism of one who was
  an American by choice rather than by the accident of birth.”—Nation

  “Remarkable by reason of the easy-flowing but at the same time stately
  and very formal style in which it is written. The career of Karl
  Bitter was a genuine romance. ... The biography contains a
  chronological list of his works and shows what an indefatigable worker
  he was.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 950w

  “Fine typography, beautiful paper, and illustrations that tell their
  tale combine in this treasure for lovers of art and books. The story
  of Bitter’s life and labors is here told simply, but appreciatively,
  even tenderly.”

       + =Lit D= 55:39 S 29 ‘17 250w

  “Of his talent the thirty-odd illustrations of his works give a fairer
  opportunity of judging than could be had by anything short of a
  pilgrimage to the sites of the originals. Decorative art is art in
  service, and the art of Karl Bitter was always undertaken in the true
  social spirit.”

       + =Nation= 105:44 Jl 12 ‘17 370w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:752 N ‘17 70w

  “Worth reading, not merely as a record of facts but as a vital
  presentation of a life of unusual potency. Forty good halftone
  illustrations, including two portraits, add to the charm of the
  volume, and increase its value as a book of reference in the realm of
  American sculpture.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 17:44 S ‘17 100w


=SCHIERBRAND, WOLF VON.= Austria-Hungary; the polyglot empire. il $3
(3½c) Stokes 943.6 17-25615

  This book is written from the viewpoint of a man who has lived for
  four years in Austria, which he left only a few months ago, and who
  has a “sincere liking for and sympathy with the people of
  Austria-Hungary.” He claims “to be actuated by no conscious bias in
  dealing with the political, social and racial questions discussed.” He
  attempts “to afford the reader a sufficient outline of the process of
  growth and accretion active in creating the Austria-Hungary of today,
  of the natural resources of the land, and of the vital characteristics
  of the population; to point out the chief problems of the polyglot
  nation ... and to define the most feasible means of allaying or
  removing these difficulties, as these means have gradually shaped
  themselves in the minds of the thinking and potential elements of
  Austria-Hungary.” Nearly one-half of the book deals with the war or
  topics related to the war. A map is pasted on the inside of the back
  cover of the book.

  Reviewed by G. I. Colbron

       + =Bookm= 46:726 F ‘18 2200w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 150w

  “Although on the whole less useful than Geoffrey Drage’s well-known
  ‘Austria-Hungary,’ it has the advantage of being considerably more
  recent and more readable. The chief value of the work lies in the fact
  that it furnishes almost the only intimate account that we have of
  what has been going on in the Hapsburg dominions since the war began.
  The volume would gain greatly by being to some extent documented.
  Important information is given and interesting judgments are passed
  with no citation of sources, authorities, or other means of
  corroboration.” F: A. Ogg

     + — =Dial= 63:637 D 20 ‘17 950w

  “A happy mean between the scholarly survey and the journalistic war
  book. It discusses the problems of the country with unusual
  completeness of scope and moderation of tone, but there is an attempt
  to interpret the soul as well as the body, to give the meaning of
  facts as well as the facts themselves.”

       + =Ind= 92:259 N 3 ‘17 750w

       + =Lit D= 55:46 D 29 ‘17 380w

  “Wolf von Schierbrand goes well with a little salt. He is an
  international journalist of repute, with the usual journalistic
  ambition to influence public sentiment, corrected more or less by the
  necessity of being interesting. But only an ill humored reader will
  grumble about it. Moreover, only an ill humored reader will be
  repelled by Wolf von Schierbrand’s German bias.” A. J.

     + — =New Repub= 13:351 Ja 19 ‘18 1600w

  “No one who desires to know the people of Austria-Hungary as they seem
  to a person of another race with broad sympathies and cultivated human
  understanding can afford to ignore this instructive and eminently
  readable volume.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:492 N 25 ‘17 500w

       + =Outlook= 117:514 N 28 ‘17 110w

  “The author may be congratulated for having produced a readable and
  interesting book, and one which should be welcomed by American
  readers.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 4 ‘17 390w


=SCHINDLER, KURT=, ed. Songs of the Russian people. pa $1 Ditson 784.8

  “The lyrics, translated by Jane and Deems Taylor, are either set to
  the traditional melodies or to arrangements by modern composers, and
  are for mixed voices. Many of the ballads date back to mediæval times;
  all of them are sung to-day by the Russian peasants.”—Dial

  “The translators seem to have kept as closely as possible to Russian
  feeling and diction.”

       + =Dial= 61:356 N 2 ‘16 350w

  “Mr Schindler shows exactly the qualities an editor most needs. He has
  selected and discovered folk-songs and choruses almost unknown here,
  all of them of high quality. He has arranged and adapted freely, but
  we can trust his hand in whatever it does. He is at once musician and
  scholar and member of his own audience. When such an editor is found
  the publisher should grapple him to his soul.” H. K. M.

       + =New Repub= 7:258 Jl 8 ‘16 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:317 Ap ‘17 30w


=SCHMIDT, WALTER KARL.= Problems of the finishing room. il $5 Periodical
pub. co., Grand Rapids, Mich. 698 16-16704

  An “authoritative manual for those employed in the finishing of woods
  by means of fuming, staining, varnishing, enameling, lacquering, etc.
  [It] treats of the preparation of the woods and describes in detail
  the processes required for the various kinds of finish. Directions are
  given for the selection, preparation and testing of the stains, oils,
  varnishes, glues and other materials used in wood finishing, and
  miscellaneous information relating to the work.”—Quar List New Tech
  Bks

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:190 D ‘16

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p6 Ja ‘17 90w

  “The author writes from large experience as chemist and finishing
  expert.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Ap ‘17 90w


=SCHNITTKIND, HENRY THOMAS=, ed. Poets of the future. *$1 Stratford co.
811.08 (Eng ed 17-1047)

  An anthology of college verse, selected from the undergraduate
  publications of sixty colleges. The preface says, “Our purpose in
  publishing this book, which will become an annual event, is two-fold.
  We want to encourage the best literature in the universities, and to
  show to the poetry lovers in this country what a wealth of gems of the
  purest ray has hitherto been inaccessible to the public.” In his
  introduction William Stanley Braithwaite expresses a belief that the
  anthology will have a deep interest for those unassociated with
  academic life, “for its expression flows from a deeper impulse, an
  impulse for the renewal of one’s fresh attachment with life at the
  source of dreams. In the poetry world it may well serve as the yearly
  spring of song.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:15 O ‘17

  “The poetry that it contains fully justifies the effort expended upon
  the collection. Not a few of the pages of the book reveal more than
  one poet of the present that has astonished the reader with a note of
  deep maturity where at best a pleasant promise was expected. The
  selections have been made with unassuming catholicity.” I. G.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 8 ‘17 1800w

  “Less than one third of the poems are by college women, and the larger
  women’s colleges, Smith, Vassar, Bryn Mawr and Wellesley, are not
  represented in the collection, although the literary periodicals of
  many of the smaller institutions, coeducational and otherwise, have
  been drawn upon for contributions.”

         =Cleveland= p65 My ‘17 100w

  “There is a freshness about the whole collection that is delightful.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:437 Ap ‘17 200w


=SCHNITZLER, ARTHUR.= Comedies of words, and other plays; Englished from
the German with an introd. by Pierre Loving. *$1.50 Stewart & Kidd 832
17-13750

  The so-called “comedies of words” included in this volume are three:
  The hour of recognition; The big scene; The festival of Bacchus. To
  these are added two other plays: Literature and His helpmate. The
  three comedies of words were published in 1915 and represent, the
  preface states, the most recent product from Schnitzler’s pen. The
  translator says, “Though they will scarcely enhance his reputation to
  any great extent, they continue in the tradition of his best work.”
  “Literature,” a witty farce, written in 1901, has been played by the
  Washington Square players of New York city.

     + — =Cleveland= p122 N ‘17 80w

  “A translation of Schnitzler’s “einakters” has a more than timely
  interest. For fifteen years he has been one of the most-followed
  teachers to a large school of playwrights who have been supplying the
  intimate playhouses of Europe with realistic short pieces, and
  recently his influence has been extended to the young American
  dramatists whose one-act plays are being presented in our own Little
  Theatres. ... The first thing to strike the reader of these plays is
  that the plot of every one has a sexual basis. Taken alone each
  situation is perfectly possible; taken as a collection they are
  unnatural. ... We miss ‘the average man.’ To comprehend this
  characteristic of his work we must remember that Schnitzler is a
  practising physician, a specialist in psychology, a student of Freud.
  He is so keenly interested in pathological psychology that the normal
  human being does not interest him at all.” W. Haynes

 *   + – =Dial= 63:63 Jl ‘17 900w

       — =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 60w

  “In the normal drama Schnitzler’s art is fragile, not to say fleeting;
  in the one-act play it is compact, serried, tingling, spicular. No
  lover of address can afford to neglect these virtuosities; if they
  share the leisurely retrospect of Ibsen in the snugness of their
  packing they rival the master himself. ... The final judgment on
  Schnitzler will hardly be altered by the succinct vigor of these
  masterly vignettes. He lacks body and he lacks soul. In Schnitzler
  passion has the tenuity of sentiment, and guilt has the tastelessness
  of innocence. The translation is plebeian, but not unreadable.”

     + — =Nation= 105:225 Ag 30 ‘17 760w

  “Mr Loving’s translation is never very good, mediocre most of the
  time, now and then very bad. ... A reason for buying this English
  version is that the original ‘Komödie der worte’ (Berlin: S. Fischer,
  1915) cannot now be had in this country, except by a lucky accident.
  The only copy I’ve been able to lay my hands on is in the reference
  department of the New York public library.” P. L.

     + — =New Repub= 11:308 Jl 14 ‘17 1050w

  “Schnitzler is Freud turned dramatist. His great power consists in his
  building plays not upon the broad basis of general and tested
  character values, but upon the psychology of our occasional lapses
  away from the average, our hidden emotional unleashings, sudden angers
  and momentary caprices.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:444 O ‘17 110w

  “Mr Schnitzler keeps his literary fabric delicate, and his irony
  permits his readers to believe that he, too, is much amused by his
  characters, and is wisely refusing to idealize any of them, or to give
  them more importance than they deserve. The ‘littleness’ of the plays
  is thus justified to the artistic consciousness. The translation lacks
  elegance, but preserves the suggestiveness of the original dialog.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 230w


=SCHOLTZ, MOSES.= Sex problems of man in health and disease; a popular
study in sex knowledge. *$1 Stewart & Kidd 612.6 16-15024

  “Five-sixths of the book covers clearly, scientifically and accurately
  diseases of sex organs in man. A small part only is given to anatomy,
  physiology and sex hygiene.”—A L A Bkl

  “Has a high moral tone—the author heartily disapproves of a double
  standard. Of use to parents, teachers and workers with boys.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:11 O ‘17

  “Written by one who has had wide experience in dealing with sex
  problems, it can be commended for its sanity.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p7 Mr 11 ‘17 150w


=SCHROEDER, THEODORE ALBERT.= Free speech for radicals. enl ed $1.50
(2½c) Free speech league 323 16-1728

  “This edition of ‘Free speech for radicals’ has doubled its size and
  the added parts are the most important.” (Foreword) Among the
  additions are a chapter on Methods of constitutional construction, an
  account of the San Diego free speech fight, and a reprint of a section
  from the Final report of the Commission on industrial relations.

  “This book might appropriately be entitled ‘Free speech for I. W. W.’s
  and anarchists,’ for on the whole it undertakes the defense of this
  ‘most despised of all classes.’ In general, the writer treats his
  subject in a dispassionate manner and the book makes interesting
  reading, but the reader frequently is challenged to make active
  rejoinders to the many sweeping conclusions.”

     – + =J Pol Econ= 25:1055 D ‘17 950w

         =Nation= 103:381 O 19 ‘16 150w

  “It is, perhaps, needless to say to our Socialist and radical readers
  that the questions of free speech and free press will, during the war,
  assume a most tremendous importance as a subject of discussion, public
  and legal. And in this connection we might mention that the voluminous
  and careful works of Theodore Schroeder, a special student of this
  matter and others pertaining to it, are, perhaps, the best, most
  accurate and authoritative literature procurable.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 Je 3 ‘17 280w

         =St Louis= 15:47 F ‘17

  “The book will chiefly interest students of anarchist and I. W. W.
  literature and development.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p13 F 7 ‘16 70w


=SCHULER, PHILLIP F. E.= Australia in arms. il *12s 6d T. Fisher Unwin,
London 940.91

  This book deals with the formation of the Australian imperial
  expeditionary force, and their work in Egypt, on the Suez canal and at
  Gallipoli. The history is complete to the date of publication.

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:89 Je ‘17

  “A capital account of the part played at Anzac by the Australian
  imperial force.”

       + =Sat R= 123:484 My 26 ‘17 200w

  “There have been many books written about the Gallipoli campaign. ...
  Some of them have been masterly, some of them hasty, and a few frankly
  inaccurate. So far none have purported to be thorough histories of the
  whole undertaking, nor does Mr Schuler make this claim for his
  book. ... The author contents himself with chronicling the campaign
  from the Australian point of view. ... The maps and illustrations are
  excellent and new.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p566 N 30 ‘16 1100w


=SCHULTZ, JAMES WILLARD.= Gold cache. il *$1.25 (3½c) Houghton 17-24276

  This book follows the author’s earlier stories, “With the Indians in
  the Rockies” and “On the war path.” Thomas Fox and his friend
  Pitamakan, with a third youth for companion, start southward on a
  search for gold. Lone Chief, who has come into Fort Benton with a
  handful of “buttons,” which prove to be twenty-dollar gold pieces, has
  started them on their way, saying that he had left four boxes of the
  supposedly valueless trinkets back in the pass, where he had
  accidentally come upon them. The quest takes the boys far down into
  the Apache country, and they have many adventures by the way.

  “A good Indian story, well told, and possessing elements which will
  satisfy the normal boy’s taste for adventure in a wholesome manner.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 10 ‘17 20w

         =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 30w

       + =N Y Times= 22:565 D 16 ‘17 70w

       + =Outlook= 117:142 S 26 ‘17 20w


=SCHWAB, CHARLES M.= Succeeding with what you have. il *50c (6c) Century
174 17-3316

  A series of short papers reprinted from the American Magazine. Mr
  Schwab writes of: Thinking beyond your job; How men are appraised;
  Seizing your opportunities; The college man in business; What your
  employer expects; My twenty thousand partners; Men I have worked with;
  Woman’s part in man’s success.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:286 Ap ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 21 ‘17 150w

       + =Cleveland= p67 My ‘17 40w

  “Mr Schwab seems to have sized up what his normal readers want in the
  way of a ‘secret of success’ book and gives them maxims and hints well
  worth following.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 200w


=SCHWARZ, OSIAS L.= General types of superior men. *$2.50 Badger, R: G.
136 17-1805

  “The writer is an immigrant from Rumania though evidently German by
  blood and tongue.” (Nation) His book is “a philosophico-psychological
  study of genius, talent and Philistinism in their bearings upon human
  society and its struggle for a better social order.” (Sub-title) “The
  point of view of the book is the need to society of both intellectual
  and moral geniuses.” (Springf’d Republican) There is a preface by Jack
  London, and an introductory letter by Dr Max Nordau.

  “Jack London wrote of the book that it was ‘one of those immortal
  epoch-making works which appear only at very long intervals and which
  leave an indelible constructive impression in the mind of the world.’
  Dr Nordau did not hesitate to declare that the work was ‘dogmatic, not
  scientific,’ that it contained statements which he, Nordau, ‘deemed
  dubious and that the analysis of hereditary influences in the
  formation of genius was hazy.’ The critic also doubted the author’s
  conviction that socialistic society would show none of the vices which
  the author pictured in civilized society.” H. S. K.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 2 ‘17 880w

  “His control of English syntax is faulty. ... Beneath the radical
  prejudice and, it must be said, occasional naïve ignorance, one
  discerns an attitude not only introspective, but deeply reflective, a
  certain fine insight, and a genuine humanity, fairness struggling with
  prejudice.”

     – + =Nation= 105:155 Ag 9 ‘17 250w

  “The book is full of this sort of muddiness, and yet there is often,
  we willingly recognize, a striking suggestiveness. The chief merit of
  the book is in its passionate insistence on the imperativeness of
  making the most of really superior men.”

     – + =Nature= 100:125 O 18 ‘17 340w

  “It is a fine book for those fatigued minds that in the misty phrases
  of ‘social consciousness’ and the like try to disguise their basic
  terror before the individual intellect.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:27 N 3 ‘17 280w

         =N Y Call= p15 S 16 ‘17 270w

  “It is vastly stimulating reading and much can be gathered from its
  torrential attack upon Philistinism. ... Mr Schwarz’s ideas would have
  been promulgated to better effect if the material had been divided
  between two or more volumes.”

     + — =R of Rs= 56:331 S ‘17 200w

  “An argument for socialism bolstered up with philosophical and ethical
  generalizations. ... Shows a certain amount of independent
  thinking ... but is scattering in aim, and extremely diffuse in
  expression.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 250w


=SCOLLARD, CLINTON.= Let the flag wave, and other verses written in
wartime. 75c J. T. White & co., 70 5th av., N.Y.; for sale by Baker 811
17-17071

  Among the “other verses” are: At the grave of Lawrence; America to her
  young men; Reeds of the Somme; Chant of the Hun; Mother England; and
  Kitchener of Khartum. The cream colored binding is not well suited to
  library use.

  “In this sort of writing Mr Scollard’s high spirits and power to write
  convincingly stand him in good stead.”

       + =Lit D= 55:31 Jl 14 ‘17 700w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:108 Jl ‘17


=SCOTT, CHARLES ERNEST.= China from within; introd. by J. Ross
Stevenson. il *$1.75 Revell 915.1 17-31762

  “For many years a missionary of the Presbyterian church at Tsingtau,
  Dr Scott’s lectures delivered in the winter of 1914-15 at Princeton
  theological seminary have an authority sometimes lacking in the books
  recording the impressions and experiences of the ordinary traveller.
  For Dr Scott has not only journeyed over the greater part of China,
  including provinces seldom visited by aliens, but he has lived among
  the people, learning, as in no other way can be done their real life
  and the most pressing of their many needs. ... ‘An humble testimony by
  a student on the field to the ability and achievements of the
  Chinese,’ he himself calls his book.”—Boston Transcript

  “His book is as interesting and valuable to the general reader as to
  those concerned with the problems of mission work.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 17 ‘17 780w

  “Little is said here about politics, revolutions or international
  relations. But real insight is given into the regenerative forces that
  are at work creating a manhood that some day will take high place in
  China’s development.”

       + =Ind= 93:200 F 2 ‘18 100w

  “A careful study.”

       + =Outlook= 117:476 N 21 ‘17 60w

  “Dr Scott presents a body of material concerning the inner life of the
  Chinese such as can hardly be found in any other published book.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:219 F ‘18 40w


=SCOTT, DIXON.= Men of letters; with an introd. by Max Beerbohm. il *$2
(2c) Doran 820.4

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:303 Ap ‘17

  “One of the most serious losses due to the war has been the death of
  Dixon Scott. ... Scott was not merely an acute critic or interpreter,
  or that commonplace of to-day, the good impressionist. He was one of
  those who penetrate through the book into the mind of the author, and
  show how it works. Like Sainte-Beuve, he saturated himself so
  completely in the man he was studying that he endued his personality.”

       + =Ath= p85 F ‘17 1350w

  “His judgments may challenge some readers: me they merely
  fascinate. ... I want a figure to intrigue my imagination, and Dixon
  Scott has offered me a gallery.” J. W. Linn

       + =Dial= 62:184 Mr 8 ‘17 950w

  “Dixon Scott was an exceedingly clever young man, with a most
  remarkable specific literary talent. Reading his criticisms is like
  watching revolver practice by a crack shot: the explosiveness of the
  style and the swiftness of the devastation hide the monotony of the
  mood and method. His longest and most deeply felt effort was an essay
  on William Morris: his most elaborated, an essay on me. ... I have no
  space here to do more than point out the limitations of Dixon Scott’s
  view of art, and how the young literary voluptuary flourished at the
  expense of the critic of life. But I can guarantee the book as being
  not only frightfully smart in the wrong places, but, in the best of
  the right ones, as good as it is in the nature of the best
  journalistic criticism to be.” G. B. S.

       * =New Repub= 10:78 F 17 ‘17 1900w

  “Aesthetic excitement—that is his distinguishing note. ... It was
  Dixon Scott’s excellent gift that he could both brilliantly detect and
  unforgettably convey. ... Here is a genuine student of life: an
  observer both shrewd and sweet, gallant, full of charm and vigor; an
  interpreter of brilliant insight, of poetic imagination, of
  extraordinary craft. One is not easily reconciled to his sacrifice.”
  Lawrence Gilman

       + =No Am= 205:620 Ap ‘17 1450w

         =Pratt= p37 O ‘17 10w

       + =Spec= 118:306 Mr 10 ‘17 60w

  “To find a given writer’s medium, compare his normal with his
  sophisticated self, and complete the curve of variation from his
  theoretically possible achievement, is the task of criticism as it
  presents itself to Dixon Scott. The resulting method has the
  breathless fascination of hurdle-racing. One may disagree with his
  opinions and resent his premises, but one must recognize the dynamic
  energy of the thinking involved.” M. A. Jordan

   + + — =Yale R= n s 7:202 O ‘17 1300w


=SCOTT, MRS ELLEN (CORRIGAN).= Elizabeth Bess, “a little girl of the
sixties.” il *$1.25 (2c) Macmillan 17-24271

  Perhaps it is for its picture of New England life in the years
  immediately following the Civil war that this book for girls will be
  most valued and for that reason many older people will enjoy it.
  Elizabeth Bess is a winsome little girl of five, who lives in a
  bewildering world of older brothers and sisters and other grown
  people. There is one older brother whom Elizabeth does not remember
  very well, for she was only a baby when he went to war and he has been
  “missing” since Gettysburg. Elizabeth Bess knows what missing means.
  She knows that it does not mean dead, or lost forever, and she
  persists in her faith in the face of all the grown-up discouragement,
  even after Howell’s mother and sweetheart are ready to give up hope.
  And Bess’s perseverance is rewarded by the missing brother’s return.

  “A not over sentimentalized picture of the life of a charming little
  girl of the sixties. ... It is not written for children, though they
  would enjoy parts of the story.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:62 N ‘17

       + =Ind= 92:447 D 1 ‘17 20w

  “A real little classic. Elizabeth Bess is a heroine in whom little
  readers and older ones may well be interested. She is a human child,
  with a quick tongue, a wide-awake mind, an intense interest in
  everything about her.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:548 D 9 ‘17 440w


=SCOTT, ERNEST.= Short history of Australia. maps *$1.25 Oxford 994
17-14803

  “A handy, clear, and well-written history, skilfully adjusting the
  narrative to the limits of a small volume without rendering it
  unattractive; equipped with a great many useful maps; and at the end a
  bibliography for each chapter. Index 15 pages.”—The Times [London] Lit
  Sup

  “Prof. Ernest Scott occupies the chair of history in the University of
  Melbourne. His ‘Short history’ is a model of its kind. Based on
  firsthand knowledge of the sources, written in a clear, masculine
  style with an agreeable literary flavor, well proportioned, judicial
  in tone, equipped with such aids to the understanding as maps, plans,
  chronology, bibliography, and index, this admirable work will take its
  place at once as a prime authority on Australia.”

       + =Nation= 104:598 My 17 ‘17 1300w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p626 D 21 ‘16 80w


=SCOTT, JAMES BROWN=, ed. Diplomatic documents relating to the outbreak
of the European war; with an introd. 2v *$5 Oxford 940.91 16-18046

  “Evidently it is the purpose of this work to furnish the student with
  the best and most comprehensive collection of the sources, but not to
  assist him further in the study of them, except that there is a large
  and excellent index. The documents are printed from the originals,
  when these are in English, and when in other languages from the
  official English translations. This collection is the most complete
  hitherto published, and contains besides the documents usually
  assembled the second ‘Austrian red book,’ concerning relations with
  Italy, most of the ‘Second Belgian gray book,’ the second ‘British
  blue book,’ relating to the rupture of relations with Turkey, the
  ‘Italian green book,’ and the second ‘Russian orange book,’ concerning
  relations with Turkey.”—Am Hist R

  “Should be the standard collection on the subject for some time to
  come.” E: R. Turner

       + =Am Hist R= 22:657 Ap ‘17 400w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:530 Je ‘17 50w

         =Pratt= p42 O ‘17 10w

  “To the many books dealing with the outbreak of the war, the Carnegie
  Endowment for international peace has now added their contribution.
  For such a collection there is a real place. Some two years ago the
  British government, indeed, published a work similar in character,
  ‘Collected diplomatic documents relating to the outbreak of the
  European war’; so far as it went that seemed fully to meet all
  requirements; the volumes before us, however, are larger in their
  scope in that they include material which has appeared since then; for
  instance, the ‘Second Belgian grey book’ and the new edition of the
  ‘German white book.’ ... On the whole, it seems to us that it would
  have been wiser if the Carnegie institute had undertaken more
  immediate responsibility for the revision of the various
  translations.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p50 F 1 ‘17 850w


=SCOTT, JOHN REED.= Man in evening clothes. il *$1.50 (2c) Putnam
17-14179

  In an amateur way, Colin Marjoribanks, an under-secretary of the
  British embassy in Washington, had been picking up valuable gems here
  and there, taking advantage of the carelessness of his women friends.
  From one he has obtained a fine pearl, from another an emerald
  necklace, from another several valuable rings. He is holding these
  until the time is safe for their disposal, when a professional jewel
  thief appears on the scene, “the man in evening clothes.” This unknown
  appears perfectly familiar with Colin’s little depredations and so
  holds him in his power. It is just at this time that the Hon. Patricia
  Packingham arrives from England, and the young secretary begins to see
  the error of his way. His efforts to get himself out of an awkward
  scrape come to a climax with a demand from the unknown thief that he
  act as a tool in robbing the British embassy. This forces confession,
  and forgiveness follows.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:62 N ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 380w

  “The story is entertainingly written and sufficiently ingenious, while
  the picture of Washington society is amusing.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:214 Je 3 ‘17 270w

  “Stories of this trashy type do Mr Scott, who ordinarily is a
  diverting romancer, no credit.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 230w


=SCOTT, RHEA CLARKE.= Home labor saving devices. il *$1 Lippincott 643
17-8895

  The author, who is a rural extension worker, gives directions for the
  making at home or in school of labor saving devices, for the kitchen,
  dining-room, porch, poultry house, dairy, etc. The appendix includes:
  Fundamentals in woodworking; Suggested list of tools; List of
  publications for supplementary reading (chiefly government documents).

         =Agricultural Digest= 2:505 Je ‘17 100w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:385 Je ‘17

         =Ath= p523 O ‘17 80w

         =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 30w

       + =Ind= 90:353 My 19 ‘17 30w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:71 My ‘17

       + =N Y Call= p15 O 28 ‘17 210w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:523 Je ‘17

         =Pratt= p25 O ‘17 30w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:155 My ‘17 50w


=SCOTT, WILLIAM BERRYMAN.= Theory of evolution. *$1 (2c) Macmillan 575
17-7196

  This book, by the Blair professor of geology and palæontology in
  Princeton university, contains the Westbrook lectures delivered at the
  Wagner free institute of science, Philadelphia, in 1914. The author
  treats his subject with special reference to the evidence upon which
  the theory of evolution is founded. Contents: Present status of the
  question; Evidences for the theory—classification, domestication and
  comparative anatomy; Evidence from embryology and blood tests;
  Evidence from palæontology; Evidence from geographical distribution;
  Evidence from experiment—conclusion.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:82 D ‘17

  “The opening chapter gives a brief historical review of theories of
  evolution and a concise statement of the present status of the
  question. I have seen no better presentation of this body of data for
  both biologist and general reader than that given in this little book.
  My only criticism is that it is insufficiently illustrated, although
  the few illustrations used are well chosen.” H. H. Newman

       + =Bot Gaz= 63:325 Ap ‘17 130w

  “The evidence for his thesis is presented honestly without forcing
  facts or ignoring flaws.”

       + =Cath World= 105:394 Je ‘17 280w

       + =Cleveland= p109 S ‘17 60w

       + =Educ R= 54:528 D ‘17 40w

       + =Ind= 92:260 N 3 ‘17 50w

  “Then follows a chapter on evidences drawn from embryology, and also
  from the wholly unexpected field of blood-tests. This part of the
  volume will be of special interest to readers who have not kept
  themselves informed as to this remarkable advance in science. The
  chapter on evidence from palæontology maintains complete perspective,
  although there was some danger that the author’s studies in this
  particular direction might throw the sketch out of true.”

       + =Nation= 104:717 Je 14 ‘17 300w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:60 Ap ‘17

  “The layman in search of a summary of the present status of the theory
  of evolution will find in Professor Scott’s volume a straightforward,
  clear-cut and simple presentation of the most important single
  contribution to science in the nineteenth century. ... The book is
  valuable for its restraint and for the liberality of its view.” D:
  Rosenstein

       + =N Y Call= p14 Je 3 ‘17 700w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:414 My ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:327 S ‘17 10w

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 29 ‘17 270w


=SCOTT, WILLIAM ROBERT.=[2] Economic problems of peace after war; the W.
Stanley Jevons lectures at University college, London, in 1917. *$1.40
(3½c) Putnam 304 (Eng ed 17-28670)

  An indication of the course which progress may be expected to take
  after the war rather than a prediction of details. A study of
  emergency measures made “for the duration of the war” naturally gives
  rise to questions concerning the continuance of state and government
  control of activities, economic and industrial, after the war.
  Concerning commerce the writer reflects that warfare has extended into
  the third dimension and that it is possible, with the perfection of
  submarines and airships, commerce may do the same. But, he says,
  “there can be no single forecast of the future of commerce and
  industry in the first years of peace. ... It will take time to direct
  the new national spirit to industry and to utilize it to the full.” He
  believes that the economy practised during these days will become
  habitual; that the increased capital as a result of saving will aid in
  the reconstruction of industry when peace returns. Finally, he
  develops a new responsibility in industry. Industry is to be conceived
  not as an evolutionary process but as a problem, that of attaining a
  harmonious relation among men concerned in production.

  “Professor Scott is more concerned to lay down broad principles than
  to attempt any very definite prediction of what the peace will bring
  us, and for that reason alone his book deserves attention.”

       + =Spec= 119:193 Ag 25 ‘17 120w

  “The author takes what seems to us to be a sane but cheerful view of
  the future. If he is sometimes a trifle prosy and occasionally a
  little obscure, he has the excuse of the traditions of the great
  science of which he is a distinguished exponent.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p314 Jl 5 ‘17 950w


=SCOVELL, CLINTON HOMER.= Cost accounting and burden application. *$2
Appleton 657 16-22873

  “The principles and elements of cost are treated by Mr Scovell rather
  than any specific system of cost keeping. The determination and
  application of overhead charges or burden are given a prominent place.
  The five methods of applying burden are: Percentage on wages,
  percentage on labor and material, man-hour rates, old-machine rate,
  new-machine rate. ... Material and material cost with reference to the
  practice of machine shops are discussed in chapter 3. The succeeding
  chapter is on labor costs. The later chapters deal with cost
  accounting for special industries. ... The author states that every
  method and device mentioned in the book is in successful operation in
  some progressive industrial establishment.”—Engin N

  “Probably the most important thing in the whole book, certainly the
  one about which there has been least written, is what the author calls
  ‘unearned burden.’ ... The work is to be recommended to managers,
  accountants, and students of cost accounting, chiefly for the
  fundamental principles discussed, and the very great number of
  suggestions offered.” M. M. FitzHugh

       + =Am Econ R= 7:137 Mr ‘17 850w

         =A L A Bkl= 13:251 Mr ‘17

  “The author would probably feel that his chief contribution lies in
  his treatment of unearned burden. ... The work at once is both
  scholarly and practical, and should rank high among the books in this
  country on the subject.” Spurgeon Bell

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:225 My ‘17 400w

         =Engin N= 77:108 Ja 18 ‘17 300w

  “Closely related to the absence of accounting forms is the lack of any
  adequate presentation of the relations between cost accounting and the
  general accounting system of the business making use of cost accounts.
  The book falls short of establishing completeness as a treatise on
  cost accounting by reason of the conscious emphasis upon the order
  method of production and the corresponding neglect of the process
  method and of the so called continuous industries. The book contains
  particularly good chapters upon unearned burden, interest as an
  element of cost, the verification of burden estimates, and the budget
  system.”

         =J Pol Econ= 25:639 Je ‘17 300w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:24 F ‘17

  “Author is a specialist in industrial accounting. He is of the modern
  school. ... The book is not a systematic treatise, suitable for
  students, but is a logical discussion of general principles. ... It
  should be read by practical accountants who wish to be informed as to
  the latest and best theory of their profession.” W: Kent

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:465 My ‘17 50w (Reprinted from Journal of the
         American Society of Mechanical Engineers p369 Ap ‘17)

         =R of Rs= 55:221 F ‘17 40w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 40w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:23 Ja ‘17 60w


=SCUDDER, VIDA DUTTON.= Church and the hour; reflections of a socialist
church woman. *$1 Dutton 261 17-10459

  This book “attempts a reconciliation between the faith of the church
  and the ideals of social reform by showing the identity of the two.
  The author, who is a professor in Wellesley college, looks upon the
  church as primarily a social organization and social force, and
  believes that the more the corporate ideal is stressed the nearer the
  church is to fulfilling its task in society. As to socialism, the
  author asserts that it is incomplete and impotent unless it take
  account of the fact that man has a soul. Intensely individualistic
  Christianity and anti-Christian socialism are believed by Miss Scudder
  to be powerless half-truths.”—Springf’d Republican

         =Cleveland= p106 S ‘17 80w

  “The great question is, Can a democratic society believe in the
  Christian God? The question is not settled, but it is one of the most
  important that we have before us to-day. Any intelligent discussion of
  it must be of value.” Ward Swain

         =Dial= 62:523 Je 14 ‘17 900w

  “Miss Scudder is less vague than most others who are lamenting the
  breakdown of Christianity with a sneer at the parson. Herself a
  Socialist, she has some ideas as to how the church might enforce
  principles of social justice and thus ensure international stability.”

       + =Nation= 104:635 My 24 ‘17 220w

         =N Y Times= 22:223 Je 10 ‘17 370w

         =Pratt= p8 O ‘17 10w

  “Anyone who believes that socialism and Christian faith are
  antagonistic to each other will be interested in Miss Scudder’s
  argument in the chapter entitled ‘Two letters to The Masses.’ ... The
  book is well written though the material is at times somewhat
  fragmentary. Throughout the reader is attracted by the note of
  mysticism and the faith in humanity.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 270w

  “Both at its heights of social hope and its depths of religious
  idealism this volume lacks a practical hold on the unity of a human
  life. It fails to show just how the church, which cannot be regarded
  as a separate body, can yet be so separate from the people
  constituting it that it can dwell apart on a higher level while they
  themselves must so largely live and labor on the ‘lower range of the
  natural life.’” Graham Taylor

     – + =Survey= 38:370 Jl 28 ‘17 650w


=SCUDDER, VIDA DUTTON.=[2] Le morte d’Arthur of Sir Thomas Malory and
its sources. *$3.50 Dutton 398.2 17-31449

  “The author is professor of English literature in Wellesley college,
  and the book is the outcome of fifteen years of study with her college
  classes. The volume is concerned with Arthurian romances intimately
  connected with England and deals with the sequence leading up to the
  ‘Morte d’Arthur’ of Malory. The development of the romances through
  the centuries is studied, with now and then a glance at the form they
  took on the continent, the author constantly comparing the sources
  from which Malory drew with his own treatment of characters and
  incidents and constantly finding in the romances the reflection of
  life and thought, and feeling during mediaeval times. ... The first
  half of the book is devoted to a consideration of the sources from
  which Malory drew his material, but the second part takes up Malory’s
  work and after a chapter on the man and his book goes on to examine,
  discuss and interpret the various elements of his ‘Morte d’Arthur.’”—N
  Y Times

  “She has made a brilliant contribution to the subject of mediaeval
  romance merely by the comprehensiveness with which she has surveyed
  the results of modern investigation, the thoroughness with which she
  has mastered and digested them and the very readable style in which
  she has presented her narrative. Her book is a work of fine
  scholarship, but it is also written in so interesting a manner that it
  deserves the popular reading for which it is intended.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:549 D 9 ‘17 600w

  “What she has done here is of permanent value and is presented with
  sincere literary effort.”

       + =Outlook= 117:654 D 19 ‘17 50w


=SEAMAN, MRS AUGUSTA HUIELL.= Girl next door. il *$1.25 (3c) Century
17-24404

  The author of “The boarded-up house” and “The sapphire signet” has
  written a new story for girls which now appears in book form after
  serial publication in St Nicholas. The old house next door appears to
  be deserted, for its shutters are always closed. Marcia and Janet,
  however, early discover that there are signs of life about it, and
  their interest, already aroused at the first hint of mystery, is
  intensified when they learn that the place shelters a young girl. When
  they succeed in making friends with Cecily they expect the puzzle to
  solve itself, but they are only more mystified, for Cecily herself
  does not know why she has been brought to live in the strange house.
  And, stranger still, Miss Benedict, its veiled mistress, does not know
  who Cecily is or from where she has come. Genuine love for Cecily
  takes the place of curiosity as the motive that drives the two girls
  on to the solution of the mystery.

  “An entertaining mystery story for girls.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:101 D ‘17

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:499 D ‘17 100w

       + =Ind= 92:447 D 1 ‘17 20w

  “As real a mystery story as ever was written for grown-ups.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:547 D 9 ‘17 90w


=SEARS, CHARLES HATCH.= Edward Judson, interpreter of God. il $1 Am.
Bapt. 17-14394

  “One of his friends, the Rev. Charles H. Sears, has sketched the
  events and the motives of Dr Judson’s public life. Against the
  background of his childhood in Burma, his orphaned boyhood in America,
  and his life as student and teacher and pastor of a prosperous
  suburban church, stands out his heroic venture in founding an
  institutional church in downtown New York. Like his great father,
  Adoniram Judson, he had the spirit of the pioneer, and his was one of
  the first expressions of the social ministry of the modern city church
  for all sorts and conditions of men.”—Lit D

  “Sympathetic portrayal of an unselfish life.”

       + =Lit D= 55:41 N 3 ‘17 160w

  “This volume would have been of greater value to the public if its
  author had not been requested to treat Dr Judson’s life in its public
  rather than in its personal relations. For Dr Judson’s power was in
  his personality.”

     + — =Outlook= 116:451 Jl 18 ‘17 300w

         =Pratt= p44 Jl ‘17 20w


=SEDGWICK, WILLIAM THOMPSON, and TYLER, HARRY WALTER.=[2] Short history
of science. il *$2.50 Macmillan 509 17-31086

  Addressed to the student and the general reader this volume goes back
  to the origin of scientific knowledge, and of the scientific method
  which has not only revolutionized scientific study but has been widely
  applied to all kinds of human activity. The writers begin with the
  ancient Babylonians, Assyrians, Egyptians and Phoenicians whose
  monuments and inscriptions have furnished the material for the
  beginnings of scientific study. The development of the science of
  mathematics, astronomy and medicine and the contribution made by
  different nations occupies nine chapters. The second half of the text
  starts with the quickening influences of the age of discovery at the
  end of the fifteenth and the beginning of the sixteenth century and
  traces the progress of modern national, physical and mathematical
  science to the beginning of the twentieth century.

         =Boston Transcript= p3 D 15 ‘17 300w

  “A vast subject is treated with breadth of view and keenness of
  insight in this book. It strikes a happy balance between the technical
  works that are meant for the special student and the works that deal
  so largely with abstract theories that they fail to grip the general
  reader. A good example of the work of specialists who know how to make
  their subject interesting to non-specialists.”

       + =Outlook= 118:68 Ja 9 ‘18 70w


=SEEBACH, JULIUS FREDERICK, and SEEBACH, MRS MARGARET REBECCA (HIMES).=
Singing weaver, and other stories. il *$1 (2c) Lutheran pub. soc.
17-21643

  These “hero tales” for young people have been brought together in
  honor of the four-hundredth anniversary of the reformation. The
  authors say that they are true stories of some of the obscure, but
  none the less real heroes of that time. Contents: The singing weaver;
  Her little Bible; At the king’s bidding; The good little hen; Lady
  Philippine’s Easter gift; At the turn of the tide; His majesty’s
  potter; The price of a book; The courage of Grizel; The glorious
  return. The book has an effective frontispiece in color by Jessie
  Gillespie.


=SEEGER, ALAN.= Letters and diary. il *$1.25 (3c) Scribner 940.91
17-14031

  Alan Seeger, the young American poet who, at the beginning of the war
  enlisted in the Foreign legion of France and died in a charge at
  Belloy-en-Santerre on July 4, 1916, tells of his service in the
  trenches, in the rear, and on the field, in fragments of a diary and
  in letters home and to the New York Sun, covering the period from
  September 27, 1914, to June 28, 1916.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:20 O ‘17

  “It is for America as well as for France that these letters speak.
  They come to the public eye at a most propitious moment. ... Alan
  Seeger was a fore-runner of the hundreds of Americans who will join
  hands with France and with all the allies of France for the salvation
  of humanity.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 1350w

         =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 50w

  “The greater portion of the book is ordinary, quite like the many
  books from the hands of mere journalists. There is another, smaller,
  but far more important part of the volume that is also disappointing,
  and in inverse ratio to its size; it is the part, or parts, where the
  poet does write and where, therefore, his philosophy of life appears.
  Alan Seeger was narrow-minded. Seeger’s [view] is so largely a mere
  expression of his emotions that, annoyance becomes the dominant
  reaction as one reads. He was tired of ordinary existence, that
  existence which demands the best powers of mind and soul. Victor
  Chapman, in his ‘letters from France,’ says: ‘Remember Alan Seeger was
  an appalling wreck before the war.’” B. I. Kinne

     – + =Dial= 63:206 S 13 ‘17 1250w

  “Perhaps nearer to literature than anything that has come to us from
  the trenches. ... His pages are extraordinarily vivid and human and
  yet curiously impersonal. There is hardly an anecdote, hardly a
  mention of an individual. Idiosyncrasies of character, incidents of
  trench life were not his interest and yet you live trench life with
  him, and you breathe the very spirit of the war.”

       + =Ind= 90:514 Je 16 ‘17 1000w

  “The real interest of this little book is in the psychological
  conditions which threw this young American into the war and made him
  glory in his experiences.”

         =Nation= 104:758 Je 28 ‘17 1350w

  “Throughout the record there is manifest a grace of mind and character
  that is both touching in its appeal and prohibitive of false
  sentiment. Sad as it is, the book is inspiriting.”

       + =No Am= 206:137 Jl ‘17 650w

         =Pratt= p42 O ‘17 20w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p612 D 13 ‘17 620w


=SEEGER, ALAN.= Poems: with an introd. by W: Archer. *$1.25 Scribner 811
16-24961

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “A large part of the poems in this volume can reasonably well stand on
  their strictly literary merits. ... We like to think that if Rupert
  Brooke had lived he would have eliminated from his final volume some
  of the unnecessary gaucheries of expression, as well as some of the
  unworthy compositions which were rushed into print under the impulse
  of the sudden fame brought about by his death. The same thought occurs
  in the case of Alan Seeger.” H. F. Armstrong

     + — =Dial= 62:243 Mr 22 ‘17 750w

       + =Ind= 89:270 F 12 ‘17 220w

  “Of his artistic capacity there can be no question. At twenty-eight he
  was master of a rich and flexible technique which I hesitate to call
  exceptional only because in our dædal and prodigious age exceptions
  are turning into rules before our eyes. The strains are Lydian, Lydian
  even in the rifle-pits; and to his ideals, which include Sidney,
  Byron, Napoleon, and Roosevelt, I am impelled to add, as analogue if
  not as exemplar, Sardanapalus.” O. W. Firkins

       + =Nation= 104:710 Je 14 ‘17 270w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:507 Je ‘17 20w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p251 My 24 ‘17 120w


=SEELY, HERMAN GASTRELL.= Son of the city. il *$1.35 (2c) McClurg
17-25592

  Sketches of boyhood, as maturity remembers it. Of stories of child
  life in the country there are many. The activities and interests of
  the city boy are more rarely pictured. But in this story of the city,
  apparently Chicago, the essential characteristics of boy nature are
  shown to vary little with the environment. Sport, love, and adventure
  are the matters that occupy this boy’s mind much as they did that of
  Tom Sawyer.

  “The particular hero of Mr Seely’s telling holds the reader’s interest
  from start to finish.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 24 ‘17 150w

  “The book is strongly reminiscent of the sentiments which inspire
  Briggs’s cartoons. ... There are quite a few passages where action
  lags and interest wanes. But the chief charm, and one that pervades
  the volume, is that older than Aristotle—recognition. Youth comes back
  with all its fond impulsiveness and sudden bitternesses, but still
  vivid and happily refreshing.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:469 N 11 ‘17 300w


=SEGAR, MARY G.=, comp. Some minor poems of the middle ages; glossary by
Emmeline Paxton. *$1 Longmans 821 17-13422

  “This is complementary to Miss Segar’s recent ‘Mediæval anthology,’
  and should help to fill in the background against which the greater
  and better-known works stand out. ... Some of these pieces are widely
  known; others, and not least interesting, are unfamiliar. These do, as
  the preface claims, ‘Illustrate the mind and deeds of the time, and
  its manners and customs.’ Miss Segar writes an excellent introduction,
  and the glossary and notes smooth the way for any intelligent
  student.”—Ath

       + =Ath= p101 F ‘17 110w

       + =Cath World= 105:404 Je ‘17 110w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:85 Je ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:183 Je ‘17


=SELLARS, ROY WOOD.= Essentials of philosophy. *$1.60 (1½c) Macmillan
102 17-22306

  This book, intended as an introduction to philosophy, concerns itself
  with those “general problems which confront all knowledge.” “He who
  has wrestled with these,” says the author, “can face the more
  empirical questions of the secondary philosophical subjects with
  equanimity.” He takes up first the problems of the theory of
  knowledge, second those of metaphysics or ontology. He says, “We
  shall, I believe, become convinced that the answer to ontological
  problems depends in a larger measure than has been acknowledged upon
  the answer given to epistemological problems. Only the final chapter
  will concern itself with values. The method we shall use may be called
  the genetic for want of a better name. ... The history of philosophy
  will always be kept subordinate to the main purpose, that of a clear
  and consistent statement of problems and their solutions, so far as
  solutions are realizable.” (Chapter 1) The author is professor of
  philosophy at the University of Michigan.

         =Ind= 92:262 N 3 ‘17 50w

  “This book, in the opinion of the reviewer, is one of the most
  acceptable introductory texts that has come under his notice. It is
  well fitted to the needs of the beginner, and it admits of all
  necessary expansion on the part of the teacher. It should find wide
  acceptance as a text.” A. G. A. Balz

       + =J Philos= 14:668 N 22 ‘17 500w


=SELTZER, THOMAS=, comp and ed. Best Russian short stories. (Modern lib.
of the world’s best books) il *60c Boni & Liveright 17-20418

  The compiler states that “the present volume is the most comprehensive
  anthology of the Russian short story in the English language. ...
  Korolenko’s ‘Shades’ and Andreyev’s ‘Lazarus’ first appeared in
  Current Opinion, and Artzybashev’s ‘The revolutionist’ in the
  Metropolitan Magazine.” (Introd.) Contents: The queen of spades, by A.
  S. Pushkin; The cloak, by N. V. Gogol; The district doctor, by I. S.
  Turgenev; The Christmas tree and the wedding, by F. M. Dostoyevsky;
  God sees the truth, but waits, by L. N. Tolstoy; How a muzhik fed two
  officials, by M. Y. Saltykov; The shades, a phantasy, by V. G.
  Korolenko; The signal, by V. N. Garshin; The darling, The bet, Vanka,
  by A. P. Chekhov; Hide and seek, by F. K. Sologub; Dethroned by I. N.
  Potapenko; The servant, by S. T. Semyonov; One autumn night, Her
  lover, by M. Gorky; Lazarus, by L. N. Andreyev; The revolutionist, by
  M. P. Artzybashev; The outrage, by A. I. Kuprin.


=SETON, ERNEST THOMPSON.= Preacher of Cedar Mountain; a tale of the open
country. il *$1.35 (1c) Doubleday 17-12957

  The story opens with an account of Jim Hartigan’s boyhood in a little
  town in Ontario. This part of his life comes to an end with his
  conversion at a crude revival meeting. He goes west as a missionary
  preacher and finds his field in the Black hills. He finds, too, the
  right woman, the one whose loving wisdom guides his after life. In
  that day horse racing was looked on by Jim’s church as one of the
  deadly sins, but a love for horses is in his blood, and it was
  inevitable that he should be drawn to the sport that flourished on the
  frontier. A big race between soldiers and Indians is one of the
  features of the story.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:452 Jl ‘17

  “Breathes a spirit of love of nature, and contains many beautiful
  word-pictures of landscapes.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:685 Ag ‘17 200w

     – + =Ind= 91:189 Ag 4 ‘17 50w

  “A vivid story.”

       + =Lit D= 55:34 Ag 18 ‘17 240w

  “Mr Thompson Seton loses his distinction when he begins to write about
  human beings. ... Almost anybody might have written such a yarn; and
  it is perhaps to Mr Seton’s credit that he seems more interested in
  the horses than in the men and women of the story. ... But the
  author’s friends must hope that he will go back to his wolves and
  grizzlies.”

         =Nation= 105:72 Jl 19 ‘17 230w

  “As a story of character development it is very interesting. And it is
  also unusual. For there is no sentimentality in the tale of Jim’s
  evolution, and the things that happen to him are full of concrete
  interest themselves.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:177 My 6 ‘17 650w

  “We predict a wide popularity for this story.”

       + =Outlook= 116:160 My 23 ‘17 90w

  “One is not surprised to learn that a story of so much breadth and
  reality is for the most part historical, and many of its characters,
  including its hero, are drawn from life.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p507 O 18 ‘17 170w


=SETON, JULIA (MRS FRANKLIN WARREN SEARS).=[2] Destiny. *$1.35 (2c)
Clode, E: J. 17-22566

  A new thought novel which forestalls unsympathetic comment by claiming
  that “every book that is written has a meaning and a purpose;
  sometimes this meaning and purpose is plain; ... sometimes however,
  only God and the author really understand it.” The heroine is a young
  girl who is keen scented for a life of adventure. She grows irritable
  among the commonplaces of life with her country foster parents and her
  country lover. She longs for the world. Her opportunity comes, and
  with it encouragement to delve deep into all “sciences, psychologies,
  philosophies, and religions.” With the husband of her friend, who had
  opened the door to her new life, she enters the world beyond and “sees
  at work the laws of the inner relationship of spheres and
  consciousness.” Here the lay reader loses her, but soon finds her
  again as she emerges to the discovery that she is the soul mate of her
  friend’s husband. The reader is led to believe that the events swiftly
  following this development, the resistance, and final conquest, are
  wholly in keeping with the teachings of new thought.

  “A highly moral book. And whatever it may lack, occasionally, in
  uniqueness of plot, or brilliancy of description and dialogue, is
  fully compensated for by its measureless compass of lofty spiritual
  values. To all disciples of new thought this last book of Dr Seton’s
  will be of singular interest.” D. F. G.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p10 O 6 ‘17 400w

  “All the characters talk a very great deal, and the author indulges in
  unending dissertations.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:388 O 7 ‘17 170w

  “With all this wonderfully constructed background of the psychic, the
  hidden, the occult, Dr Seton has aroused in her readers a tense
  expectation. We proceed eagerly with the breathless hope of seeing
  Audrienne solve the mystery of life and love, disclose the secret
  which lies behind the beyond. It is frankly, therefore, a
  disappointment to be called upon to witness Dr St Elmo and our heroine
  clasped in each other’s arms amid the ‘deepest, darkest shrubbery,’
  and to find the author herself commenting on the scene, ‘They had
  found all they had looked for; all they had longed for, far above the
  law of all mystical research.’” Joseph Mosher

       — =Pub W= 92:1376 O 20 ‘17 650w


Seven years in Vienna (August, 1907—August, 1914); a record of intrigue.
il *$1.50 Houghton 943.6 A17-1120

  “Popular and gossipy, this traces the course of political events from
  1907-1914 and the reason for Austria’s entrance into the war. Gives
  rather vivid characterizations of members of the royal family
  including the late emperor Francis Joseph and the murdered archduke
  and his wife, and describes many of the intrigues of the governing
  political party of Austria.”—A L A Bkl

         =A L A Bkl= 13:396 Je ‘17

  “Very early in his record of intrigue in the German and Austrian
  courts he reveals an intimate acquaintance with his subject and with
  the intricacies of court life and the people who direct and control
  it.” H. S. K.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 24 ‘17 780w

  “What he or she has to say of the inner workings of government
  machinery is entertaining enough, but unsupported by any basis of
  authority.”

         =Dial= 62:487 My 31 ‘17 120w

  “A farrago of backstairs tittle-tattle, newspaper clippings, and
  downright guesswork.”

       — =Nation= 104:715 Je 14 ‘17 250w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:77 My ‘17

  “An interesting book, this, yet scarcely a valuable one. It is poorly
  written, poorly assembled, confused at times to a point of an
  inconsistency which is probably more apparent than real.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:270 Jl 22 ‘17 1050w

         =St Louis= 15:134 My ‘17 20w


=SEVERANCE, FRANK HAYWARD.= Old frontier of France. 2v il *$7.50 (2c)
Dodd 974.7 17-13293

  Drawing on records in the archives of France, Canada and the United
  States, the author has brought together a mass of material bearing on
  the history of the Niagara region and adjacent lakes under French
  control. The work is intended as an authentic historical record. The
  author says, “If I have seldom turned aside from the mere recording of
  events, to remark on the policies of the powers which were rivals in
  the region, or on the consequences of their conduct, it is because I
  have felt that the truest exposition of these ambitions of courts,
  these failures or achievements of ministries, lay in setting forth as
  simply and clearly as possible, the things that were done.” Volume 1
  covers the period from the early explorations to about 1751. In volume
  2 the historical record is carried to the surrender of Fort Niagara,
  with supplementary chapters on the career of Chabert. The volumes are
  well illustrated, with maps, plans and facsimiles.

  “No one is so well qualified as Mr Severance to tell the story of this
  region. With its topography and later history he has long been
  familiar, and he has evidently spent years collecting material for
  this work, laying under contribution manuscript sources in the
  archives of Paris, London and Ottawa, contemporary newspapers and
  pamphlets and familiar printed collections like the ‘New York colonial
  documents.’ The result is a work for the specialist and not for the
  general reader, one which will be found to disclose new facts and
  sources of information rather than to change fundamentally the
  reader’s conception of the character of the men and events under
  consideration. Within these self-imposed limitations the book is one
  of great value.” A. H. Buffinton

       + =Am Hist R= 23:180 O ‘17 800w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:125 Ja ‘18

  “Mr Severance of the Buffalo historical society, and author of ‘Old
  trails on the Niagara frontier’ and other historical works, is fitted
  to write of the domination of the Niagara region by the French. ...
  His work presents an assemblage of historical facts which will be of
  inestimable value to the historian and the economist who deals with
  results as well as causes.” G. H. S.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 1100w

  “Mr Severance is painstaking and accurate, with an apparently vastly
  absorbent, orderly intellect, and if only he might have quickened his
  subject with a more human touch, the reviewer could accord him
  unstinted praise.”

     + — =Dial= 63:458 N 8 ‘17 460w


=SEVERN, ELIZABETH.=[2] Psychology of behaviour. *$1.50 (2c) Dodd 130
17-31920

  The writer is a practitioner of psychotherapy and mental science. From
  the metaphysical rather than biological, the idealistic and
  suggestive, rather than materialistic and positive point of view, she
  analyses human motives and needs. The chapter on “Self” offers
  encouragement to the self-depreciating individual for it sets a high
  value on each self as an entity whose quality and idiosyncrasies
  distinguish it from every other particle in the universe and render it
  an essential part of the whole. The culture of self “is the only path
  to liberation and high behaviour,” says the author.


=SEWARD, ALBERT CHARLES=, ed. Science and the nation; with an introd. by
the Right Hon. Lord Moulton. *$1.50 Putnam 504 17-21369

  Thirteen essays by Cambridge university graduates, on the importance
  of pure science and its relation to applied science. “Lord Moulton
  points the general moral in an introduction—namely, that the facts and
  methods of science should receive more attention in our schools and
  universities.” (Spec) “Contents: The national importance of chemistry,
  W. J. Pope; Physical research and the way of its application, W. H.
  Bragg; The modern science of metals, pure and applied, W. Rosenhain;
  Mathematics in relation to pure and applied science, E. W. Hobson; The
  science of botany and the art of intensive cultivation, F. W. Keeble;
  Science in forestry, W. Dawson; Systematized plant-breeding, R. H.
  Biffen; An agricultural war problem, T. B. Wood; Geology as an
  economic science, Herbert H. Thomas; Medicine and experimental
  science, F. Gowland Hopkins; The ‘specific treatment’ of disease, G.
  H. F. Nuttall; Flies and disease, G. S. Graham-Smith; The government
  of subject peoples, W. H. R. Rivers.” (N Y Br Lib News)

  “Each essay is written by a master of his subject, and the claims of
  the various sciences to recognition are presented in a most attractive
  and reasonable manner. The writers are making a simple and direct
  appeal to the general and educated public. There is no undue
  exploitation of any one science; there is no attempt to minimize the
  importance of the humanities; on the contrary, there is an earnest
  appeal for a proper balance of these two branches of civilization.”

       + =Nation= 105:274 S 6 ‘17 260w

  “Individually the chapters are of the utmost interest to the general
  reader; they give him compactly and authoritatively a sound idea of
  the scope and value of contemporary work in chemistry, physics,
  botany, geology, medicine, mathematics, and anthropology. ... Yet the
  present reviewer who is a journalist very anxious for the advancement
  of science and very eager to serve it if he can, turns from this book
  with an uncomfortable sense that scientific men have still to develop
  a definite policy with regard to schools and colleges and higher
  education. ... Against the strangle-grip of the classic-worshipping
  mandarins on our higher English education such a book as ‘Science and
  the nation’ scarcely fights at all.” H. G. Wells

     + — =Nature= 99:141 Ap 19 ‘17 1350w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:124 Ag ‘17

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p19 Jl ‘17 110w

         =Spec= 118:393 Mr 31 ‘17 170w

  “The book opens with a contribution from Professor Pope to demonstrate
  that war on its present scale would have been impossible for Germany
  had not her chemists prepared the way. ... The feature common to
  nearly all the essays, but most clearly developed by Professor Bragg,
  is the insistence upon pure science, pursued for its own sake, as the
  fountain of all discovery, even in applied science. ... In addition to
  their discontent with the position of science in the economy of the
  nation, there are signs that the Cambridge essayists are not without
  some resentment at the treatment accorded to the scientific man
  himself, more at his lack of influence than as regards the actual
  rewards that he misses.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p135 Mr 22 ‘17 2000w


=SHACKLETON, ROBERT.=[2] Book of New York. il *$2.50 Penn 917.471 18-87

  “Mr Shackleton is a trained observer of the picturesque and the
  historical, and in this volume he reveals a New York, or rather
  several New Yorks, that many life-long citizens of the poly-headed
  metropolis probably know little about. His book is at once historical,
  anecdotal, artistic, and informative in its appeal; above all, it
  seeks to capture the elusive spirit of the great city. The oldest
  houses and the newest palaces, the quaint corners and the splendid
  modern vistas, and the stories that lie behind them, all figure in Mr
  Shackleton’s narrative and in the many illustrations, from photographs
  and in pen-and-ink, which he has assembled. The photographs are
  reproduced in sepia and the pen-drawings are by Boyer.”—Lit D

         =A L A Bkl= 14:165 F ‘18

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 26 ‘17 600w

       + =Lit D= 55:51 D 8 ‘17 100w

  “Rather desultory, but always agreeable.”

     + — =Outlook= 118:67 Ja 9 ‘18 40w


=SHARMAN, HENRY BURTON.=[2] Records of the life of Jesus. *$2.50 Assn.
press 226 17-19831

  A topical study of the actual career of Jesus whose first part makes
  comparative use of the gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke and whose
  second part is based on the gospel of John. “Dr Sharman describes this
  book as ‘a super-harmony of the gospels.’ The book is an ambitious and
  scholarly attempt to put the gospels in a new setting and, at the same
  time, to avoid, as far as possible, any dislocation or distortion of
  passages. It is unique in that it permits (by printing consecutive
  passages in Roman type) the continuous reading of each gospel. The
  synoptics have been harmonized, while the gospel of John is given by
  itself with the fullest possible cross reference to the synoptics.
  Passages which are similar but not actually parallel are given in
  foot-notes.” (Publishers’ note)

  “Easily the best harmony of the gospels that has been published up to
  the present time. The book is admirable, both for reader and student.”
  F. W. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p2 D 15 ‘17 740w


=SHARP, HILDA M.= Stars in their courses. *$1.50 (1c) Putnam 17-7812

  “To be the child of an unhappy marriage is to be heavily handicapped
  at the very outset of that strange, unequal game we call life,” says
  the author. This was the fate of her hero, Patrick Yardley. When he
  was five years old, his mother disappeared out of his life, and his
  father, a very rich, self-made man, transferred to the child the
  bitter hatred engendered by the mother’s faithlessness. He teaches the
  boy to love money and then disinherits him, leaving his fortune to
  Patrick’s cousin. Patrick becomes a wanderer. An inherited passion for
  gambling is indulged in far places of the earth and wild stories of
  his way of life come back to England. His return, his meeting with the
  girl who is engaged to his cousin, and the discovery that his father
  had made a later will are events of the second half of the story. “The
  stars in their courses fought against Sisera,” seems to be the source
  of the title.

  “It hardly creates the illusion of reality. Miss Sharp has an
  excellent plot in which inherited gambling instincts, blackmail, and
  accident play a perfectly legitimate part. Her characters too, except,
  in their speech, are true to type. She has a clever way of expressing
  her view of her characters that makes her work amusing, but her
  melodramatic dialogue all but ruins her best effects.”

     – + =Dial= 62:444 My 17 ‘17 130w

  “Somehow the author has made an interesting story even tho she has
  employed almost all the hackneyed situations known to fiction.”

     + — =Lit D= 54:1089 Ap 14 ‘17 200w

  “Several of the minor characters in this oldfashioned story are well
  drawn.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:69 F 25 ‘17 300w

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 300w


=SHEAFFER, WILLIAM ADAM.=[2] Household accounting and economics. *65c
Macmillan 657 17-3038

  This practical work has chapters on: Personal accounts; Economics of
  the household; The family budget; How to keep the family accounts; How
  to open a bank account; Making payments by check; Envelope and card
  systems of keeping accounts; The household inventory and fire
  insurance protection, etc. The book is intended primarily as a text
  book for girls studying home economics, but the author points out that
  it furnishes valuable training for boys as well. It is also adapted to
  the use of the individual housekeeper or of clubs making a study of
  the subject. The author is head of the commercial department of West
  division high school, Milwaukee.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:385 Je ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p 20 F ‘18 30w

  “This book should be a welcome addition to the working library of the
  housekeeper.” J. S.

       + =St Louis= 15:332 S ‘17 14w


=SHEAHAN, HENRY.= Volunteer Poilu. il *$1.25 (3c) Houghton 940.91
16-22442

  A book written by an American serving in France. The author says that
  in writing the book it was his ambition to do for his comrades, the
  French private soldiers, what other books have done for the soldiers
  of other armies. Contents: The Rochambeau s’en va-t-en guerre; An
  unknown Paris in the night and rain; The great swathe of the lines; La
  forêt de Bois-le-Prêtre; The trenches in the “wood of death”; The
  Germans attack; The town in the trenches; Messieurs les poilus de la
  grande guerre; Preparing the defense of Verdun; The great days of
  Verdun.

  “It is not only of trench life that this little volume treats: many
  other phases are illuminatingly touched upon. It is all admirably
  written and holds the attention closely.”

       + =Cath World= 104:696 F ‘17 200w

  “Admirably written sketches giving an excellent interpretation of the
  French private soldier in the trench and in action.”

         =N J Lib Bul= p7 Ap ‘17 18w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:427 My ‘17 20w

       + =St Louis= 15:45 F ‘17 20w

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:26 Ja ‘17 40w


=SHEARME, JOHN.= Lively recollections. il *1.50 (2c) Lane 17-16340

  “The stories Canon Shearme tells of his boyhood days in Cornwall, his
  college days at Oxford, his early travels on the Continent, recreate
  the vanished Mid-Victorian life in delightful fashion. In the various
  towns to which, as curate, vicar and honorary canon, he was appointed,
  were among his neighbors and parishioners men famous in English
  politics, art and science, and his memories of them are particularly
  felicitous. In 1891, he was made vicar of Ryde on the Isle of Wight.
  At Osborne House, where he was often a dinner guest of Queen Victoria,
  and in whose chapel he sometimes preached, he met many royalties, whom
  he in turn makes known to us.”—Boston Transcript

  “His sense of humor, never more keen than when he himself is the
  object; his happy gift as a raconteur; his fund of amusing anecdote
  combine to make his recollections exceptionally pleasing.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 300w

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 40w

  “This unpretentious book of reminiscences is truly delightful. His
  pictures of famous personalities have a fine flavor. Among them are
  Gladstone, Lord Tennyson, Elizabeth of Austria, Emperor Francis
  Joseph, Empress Eugenie, and Queen Victoria.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:329 S ‘17 100w

  “Canon Shearme’s ‘recollections’ make very pleasant reading. The book
  is not long and it is quite light. We are all often asked to recommend
  such a book in these days, and the name is well worth remembering. His
  point of view is ... that of a scholar and a kindly, leisurely
  gentleman, who can talk to us very pleasantly about all sorts and
  conditions of people.”

       + =Spec= 118:678 Je 16 ‘17 230w

  “All through the volume there is the atmosphere of the Anglican
  church; and much of the author’s recollections has to do with church
  life and clerical haps and mishaps.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 9 ‘17 450w


=SHELFORD, ROBERT WALTER CAMPBELL.= Naturalist in Borneo. il *$5 Dutton
508.491 (Eng ed 17-15691)

  “The author, who died in 1912, was curator of the Sarawak museum
  before settling down at the Oxford museum as assistant-curator under
  the guidance of Professor Poulton, who edits his book. It is apparent
  from the wide scope of his work, ranging from men and mammals to
  beetles, and from the vividness and exactitude of his observations,
  that Mr Shelford was a born naturalist, and would have done great
  things had he lived. As it is, the book is curiously interesting. ...
  The author’s numerous photographs are excellent.”—Spec

  “Beside the interest of the manuscript, is that of the silent witness
  it bears to an unconquerable spirit which no physical ill could
  discourage, no amount of required personal effort could daunt.
  Unprefaced by the brief biography Dr Poulton of Oxford wrote, one
  would still feel the impulse of a rarely strong and appealing
  personality.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 700w

  “Significant as are the facts gleaned from the author’s study of the
  vertebrata of Borneo, it is in the field of entomology that he
  exhibits most strikingly the specialized worker’s intimate knowledge.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:290 Ag 5 ‘17 500w

  “A fascinating and unusual book, the work of a well-trained and
  thoughtful observer in many fields of science. He was specially keen
  on the problems of mimicry as a means of survival in the struggle for
  existence, and throughout the book, before we come to the special
  chapter on the subject, he supplies a host of observations on the odd
  habits of the world of life from animals to plants. Occasionally the
  dry and polysyllabic style of science may be a little technical for
  the reader, but the book as a whole is well and clearly written and
  free from the clumsiness which is too common among scientific writers.
  It is also well illustrated.”

       + =Sat R= 123:136 F 10 ‘17 1250w

       + =Spec= 118:141 F 3 ‘17 100w

  “At Kuching, in Sarawak, the Rajah Brooke established a museum which,
  it was wisely provided, was to be confined to Bornean subjects. With
  this limitation it has grown within its field to be an institution of
  great value; and it was as curator of the museum for some seven years
  that Mr Shelford gained his acquaintance with Bornean natural history.
  But the chief value of this book lies in its suggestiveness and
  biological speculations.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p17 Ja 11 ‘17 1100w


=SHELTON, WILLIAM HENRY.= Jumel mansion; being a full history of the
house on Harlem Heights built by Roger Morris before the revolution;
together with some account of its more notable occupants. il *$10
Houghton 974.7 17-216

  “At the extreme upper end of Manhattan island, on a plot of land
  bounded by 160th and 162d streets, stands a historic building. It is
  known variously as the Roger Morris house, the Jumel mansion, and
  Washington’s headquarters, and it has been standing as a fine example
  of Georgian architecture since 1763. ... The records of this famous
  house and estate, with many biographical and personal records of its
  residents and others associated in one way or another with its
  history, have been gathered by Mr Shelton, its curator, and with many
  illustrations and facsimile plates and documents they have been made
  into a large quarto volume, stamped on the cover with a representation
  of the mansion. The book is appropriately entitled ‘The Jumel
  mansion,’ for that is its most popular designation and it is to the
  Jumels, and especially to Mme Jumel that it owes, in spite of its
  historical revolutionary significance, the greater part of its
  distinction.”—Boston Transcript

  “By far the most striking historical contribution is the author’s
  excursus on the great fire of September, 1776, and the connection
  therein of Nathan Hale. The reviewer has observed no slips of
  consequence. One may question the proportion of space allotted to the
  law-suits and to the unsavory chronicles of the Bowen family.

  The volume is well illustrated, and is a creditable and attractive
  addition to the list of works on famous American houses.” E. K. Alden

       + =Am Hist R= 22:909 Jl ‘17 480w

  “Throughout the book forms a valuable contribution to American
  topographical history.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 6 ‘17 1200w

  “The author has examined a countless number of manuscripts, letters,
  and records, and as a result has produced a thorough history of one of
  the best known historical landmarks of Manhattan.”

       + =Lit D= 54:569 Mr 3 ‘17 250w

  “A large and showy book on a trivial subject.”

         =Nation= 104:605 My 17 ‘17 500w

  “His book is charmingly written and most attractively presented.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:167 Ap 29 ‘17 1800w


=SHEPARD, ODELL.=[2] Lonely flute. *$1.25 Houghton 811 17-11821

  “Only rarely does a poet succeed in catching the inner significance of
  his own verse and crystallizing that impression into a title for his
  book of verses. This is what in a high degree Mr Shepard has done in
  his little volume of carefully selected poems. Most of Mr Shepard’s
  verse is quite plainly divided into what has to do with California and
  what with New England. The New England note is, however, by far the
  more potent. We should not need the hint given us by the poems upon
  Concord, to realize the influence upon him of Emerson.”—Boston
  Transcript

  “The few dates scattered through the book convince us that these poems
  cover a number of years and are the chosen best of the poet’s output
  during these years. It is verse of high restraint, reflecting from
  first to last a lofty poetic ideal and a steadfast struggle toward the
  ideal.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 22 ‘17 1150w

  Reviewed by Conrad Aiken

         =Dial= 62:475 My 31 ‘17 630w

  “There are many beautiful things in ‘A lonely flute’—high imagination,
  rich color, noble emotion. Mr Shepard is particularly successful when
  he writes of nature.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1512 My 19 ‘17 850w

  “A refined and tranquil volume, of wavering promise.” O. W. Firkins

     + — =Nation= 105:400 O 11 ‘17 150w


=SHEPARDSON, GEORGE DEFREES.= Telephone apparatus; an introduction to
the development and theory. il *$3 Appleton 654.6 17-4036

  The author says that, while numerous books on telephony have been
  published, there is “a paucity of systematic, historical, and
  theoretical treatment.” It is to meet this deficiency that his book
  has been prepared. “The book presumes that the reader has a working
  knowledge of algebra, trigonometry, calculus and physics, including
  the laws governing direct and alternating currents.” Part 1 is devoted
  to Speech sounds, receivers, transmitters; part 2 to Signaling
  equipment; Part 3 to Sources of electromotive force and protection.
  Part 4 is given up to appendices devoted to the more advanced
  mathematical phases of the subject. The author is professor of
  electrical engineering at the University of Minnesota.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:156 F ‘18

         =Cleveland= p79 Je ‘17 40w

  “The wealth of references given to the technical literature in
  discussing the principles and modes of operation of telephone
  apparatus would justify the publication of this book without any
  regard to the matter contained in the text. The text is, moreover,
  well arranged and amply illustrated for the treatment of the subject.”

       + =Elec World= 69:380 F 24 ‘17 150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:40 Mr ‘17

  “Also reviewed in the American City, March, 1917.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p9 Ap ‘17 100w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:523 Je ‘17 30w

       + =Science= n s 46:462 N 9 ‘17 420w


=SHEPHERD, WILLIAM GUNN.= Confessions of a war correspondent. il *$1
(3c) Harper 940.91 17-17737

  Mr Shepherd, as reporter for the United press association, covered the
  fall of Antwerp, is credited with being the only newspaper
  correspondent who saw the first battle of Ypres, was with the
  Austrians at Przemysl, and has visited the British, German and Italian
  fronts. In this book, he does not describe battles, but gives us a
  picturesque narrative of a war correspondent’s daily life. In the
  chapter entitled “The forty-two-centimeter blue pencil,” he states the
  case for censorship. In the last chapter, There are worse things than
  slaughter, he tells of the “moral and mental disintegration that is
  caused by military service in individual cases.” Other interesting
  chapters are The free-lance and the faker and The psychology of
  retreats.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:55 N ‘17

  “What Mr Shepherd does in this readable book is to ‘open the stage
  door and welcome his readers to the “behind-the-scenes” of war
  reporting.’”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 8 ‘17 370w

       + =Cleveland= p101 S ‘17 70w

  “Mr Shepherd’s story brings out well the three stages through which
  war correspondence has passed in the course of the present conflict,
  and he calls them the ‘free-lance days,’ the ‘dark ages,’ and the
  ‘stage of the new twentieth-century war correspondent.’ The book is an
  entertaining and apparently truthful account of a war reporter’s
  trials and triumphs.”

       + =Dial= 63:166 Ag 30 ‘17 290w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:133 S ‘17 30w

  “Those who have read Richard Harding Davis’s last story ‘The
  deserter,’ will be keenly interested to find in one chapter an account
  of the incidents on which the story was based. One [chapter] of
  particular interest tells about the spy mania that permeates Europe.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:344 S 16 ‘17 320w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:683 O ‘17 30w

  “A spirited narrative of experiences.” P. B.

       + =St Louis= 15:354 O ‘17 30w


=SHEPPARD, ALFRED TRESIDDER.= Quest Of Ledgar Dunstan. *$1.50 (1c)
Appleton 17-21976

  “This is the second volume in what may prove to be an extensive series
  about the same personage. In the earlier novel—‘The rise of Ledgar
  Dunstan’—we saw the boyhood of Dunstan, and followed him through the
  processes of growth and rebellion in the midst of a conventionally
  religious family. The present chronicle begins immediately after his
  marriage to Mary Beltinge of Beltinge. Dunstan, ‘of obscure
  middle-class origin, and a novelist whose name was just beginning to
  be known,’ ... lacks spine, effectiveness, precisely in the proportion
  that he does not lack a complacent self-sufficiency and a capacity for
  feeling, for suffering. It speedily becomes apparent to Mary that the
  marriage to Dunstan was a blunder, and in the course of their wedding
  trip in Brittany she coolly relinquishes him in favor of an American
  artist, one Lincoln, and virtually leaves the story. ... What concerns
  the novelist, thereafter, is to trace the progress of Dunstan’s
  despair, spiritual chastisement and final readjustment. ... For the
  really important business of the book, however, he introduces, and
  delineates at great length, an extraordinary character, a decayed
  genius who imagines himself the realization of the ancient idea of
  Anti-Christ.”—Boston Transcript

  “Not the sort of novel to please vastly the casual story-reader. But
  obviously Mr Sheppard is not one of those novelists whose aim is
  popular success. He has achieved something finer and more difficult,
  for this book is an uncommonly subtle and well-sustained story of weak
  souls, and of the doctrines that brought one to destruction and the
  other to salvation.” F. I.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 29 ‘17 950w

         =Dial= 63:532 N 22 ‘17 200w

  “The description of the insane asylum might be effective were it not
  so intolerably long; the same comment applies to the account of
  Ledgar’s night of horror in the old curiosity shop. ... Mr Sheppard is
  not without talent, but it is swamped by his verbosity.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:372 S 30 ‘17 230w

  “Here is a remarkable novel, something quite outside the ordinary ruck
  of fiction, something different, distinctive, startling,
  thought-compelling, and cataclysmic. ... Mr Sheppard has evidently
  made a close study of various forms of mania, especially of religious
  mania, and his book is an impassioned plea for reform in our treatment
  of lunatics, which he asserts is the grossest scandal of our
  civilisation. ... We have had this kind of thing in fiction before,
  but never, perhaps, have we had so startling, so convincing, and so
  minute a study of the horror and ugliness of madhouse life.”

       + =Sat R= 123:553 Je 16 ‘17 950w

  “An interesting and elaborate study of the personality of the hero.”

       + =Spec= 119:144 Ag 11 ‘17 40w

  “If, in spite of many interesting passages, a book be devoid of beauty
  of diction, of force, of manners, proportion, and sobriety, can it be
  anything but a bad book? We are inclined to say that it cannot. But
  as, in exasperation, we pronounce this opinion, we find ourselves
  arrested by something. We recall the saying: ‘Who touches this book
  touches a man.’”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p296 Je 21 ‘17 480w


=SHEPPARD, ALFRED TRESIDDER.= Rise of Ledgar Dunstan. *$1.50 Appleton
16-22850

  “This novel is of the type of J. D. Beresford’s ‘Early history of
  Jacob Stahl,’ following the life of its hero from boyhood to maturity.
  Ledgar Dunstan is a drifter, a somewhat spineless sort of person.
  Brought up very strictly by an austere Baptist father in a convention
  of ‘Thou shalt nots,’ he presently comes to London and finds himself
  without any code at all. He rejects that of his father and seems to
  lack sufficient energy and sufficient interest in living either to
  make or to adopt one for himself. Several persons leave him money, he
  is successful as a writer, and the book ends with a marriage into
  which he has slipped more because it was an easy and agreeable thing
  to do than for any other reason.”—N Y Times

  “The book is ingenious and brilliant rather than sound and sincere.”
  H. W. Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 44:644 F ‘17 450w

  “A chaotic vehement mist of ideas hangs over the entire story. Mr
  Sheppard is so much addicted to thinking in ink that ‘The rise of
  Ledgar Dunstan’ comes near to striding the border that separates
  fiction from philosophy. ... When the author chooses to narrate, he
  can, and in a most telling manner. He has accuracy of touch and
  sympathy and insight. He has an experience which he must have gained
  from a varied life, a breadth of view which approaches the universal,
  and above all the saving grace of humor which prevents him taking
  himself with too deadly a seriousness. Thus ‘The rise of Ledgar
  Dunstan’ has a character and it has promise of a better sequel.” J. P.
  M.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 13 ‘16 700w

     – + =Cath World= 105:402 Je ‘17 200w

  “Provides a good deal of material for the student of social conditions
  and not much for the lover of novel reading. ... We have here another
  example of the ‘literature of revolt,’ in which, however, the author
  wrestles with the question of religion in a constructive or positive
  way.” E: E. Hale

         =Dial= 62:71 Ja 25 ‘17 950w

  “Frankly, it is a bit puzzling. Nevertheless, let us hope that the
  sequel may fulfil the promise of what seems to be the author’s first
  book. It is interesting and has merit.”

     + — =Dial= 62:402 My 3 ‘17 280w

  “His infancy, his boyhood, his younger manhood, are laid before us
  with that scrupulous (and ruthless) particularity which the ‘life’
  novel prescribes. It is an admirable method, other things being
  equal—or rather, under one condition: that the human subject of our
  study shall be inherently worth our trouble. ... Ledgar Dunstan fails,
  in the present instalment of his story, to prove his worth for us.”

       — =Nation= 104:270 Mr 8 ‘17 300w

  “Generally the reader has an irritating feeling that Ledgar Dunstan
  ought to be both real and interesting, and is neither. ... Could
  two-thirds of this book be removed, we would have a novel not unworthy
  of attention; it is in no way a cheap and tawdry book—but it is an
  amateurish one.”

       — =NY Times= 21:548 D 10 ‘16 350w

  “The author has just enough of ability in depicting character and in
  presenting incidents and lively talk to give hopes for his future as a
  novelist, but this volume is in itself about as bad as it can be as
  regards construction, development, and proportion.”

       — =Outlook= 115:74 Ja 10 ‘17 80w

  “Mr Sheppard understands the formulas fairly well, and we concede to
  him perceptions and sympathies which, as is the case with most
  novelists, far outstrip his faculty for presentation. What he entirely
  fails to realize is the nature of the art of fiction. There can be no
  such thing as a novel without a purpose. ... A torrent of prattle
  devastates the book, and, as for the cracking of jokes, we are goaded,
  ravaged, desolated by them.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p548 N 16 ‘16 450w


=SHERMAN, STUART PRATT.= Matthew Arnold; how to know him. il *$1.50
Bobbs 17-13963

  One chapter is devoted to Matthew Arnold’s character and career, and
  the remainder of the book is then given up to a study of his work.
  “Matthew Arnold is a charming but not an altogether conciliatory
  writer,” says the author in beginning his first chapter. “If you
  disagree with him, he does not encourage you to believe that you may
  be in the right.” The literary study is divided into the following
  chapters: Poems of the personal life; Poems of the external world;
  Literary criticism; Education; Politics and society; Religion. The
  author is professor of English in the University of Illinois.

  “A good volume for any small library needing a separate work.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:16 O ‘17

  “Professor Sherman approaches his task with a complete understanding
  of his subject, and in his brief volume he has written an
  exceptionally able and comprehensive introduction to a study of the
  work and influence of Matthew Arnold.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 1400w

  “An excellent appreciation of [Arnold’s] ability as poet and literary
  critic.”

       + =Cath World= 105:830 S ‘17 550w

  “The reader will turn from the book with a distinct impression of
  Matthew Arnold as a person, and with a pretty clear concept of what he
  considered it necessary to believe regarding poetry, education,
  politics, and religion—if one would see life and see it whole. ... It
  is, however, an invitation to substitute knowledge about Arnold for
  acquaintance with him. ... I am not finding fault with the content,
  style, or spirit of the book. My criticism goes deeper, or else is
  beside the mark. I object to the general theory upon which the book is
  based; I attack Mr Sherman’s method.” M. C. Otto

     + — =Dial= 62:516 Je 14 ‘17 1700w

  “The author was braced by diligence both in the collecting of minor
  material and in the weaving of it into a predetermined disquisitive
  pattern to square with an inherently unsympathetic attitude toward the
  poet and essayist. But tho the verse quotations from Arnold are not
  always of the best, certain contributory information of real worth (as
  in ‘Literary criticism’) may, here and there, be culled from the 314
  pages.”

         =Ind= 91:78 Jl 14 ‘17 70w

  “Usually books of the ‘how to know’ order consist of a mass of facts
  with directions for study but with little aid to real insight. This,
  however, provides a reader with a sound basis for both appreciation
  and criticism. This is the more effective because the biographical
  chapter at the beginning is a real introduction to the man himself.”

       + =Lit D= 55:45 D 1 ‘17 270w

  “He does not point out with the vividness of the here and now just how
  Matthew Arnold reconstructs, just how his message renews itself with
  each generation.” E. B.

     + — =New Repub= 12:360 O 27 ‘17 1200w

         =Pratt= p47 O ‘17 20w

  “Mr Sherman has the gift of style. He says exactly what he wishes to
  say, without hurry, without circumlocution, without bungling. [He]
  does admirable justice to Arnold’s life as a record of noble and
  unselfish endeavor; the life of a man who preached everywhere the duty
  of perfecting our natures, moral, intellectual, aesthetic, social, and
  religious. The book may be heartily commended to those who wish to
  understand why Arnold is still an important influence in the world. Mr
  Sherman skilfully and judiciously expounds the very helpful idea that
  the interest and charm of Arnold’s essays lie far more in their
  extraordinary power to stimulate interest, curiosity, and the
  aesthetic sense, than in the correctness of his estimates. His best
  message, here as elsewhere, is moral and religious.” H: B. Hinckley

       + =Yale R= n s 7:218 O ‘17 750w


=SHERMAN, STUART PRATT.=[2] On contemporary literature. *$1.50 (2c) Holt
820.4 18-773

  A collection of critical essays that have appeared in the Nation. The
  word contemporary is given a broad interpretation, admitting of the
  inclusion of Shakespeare. “Shakespeare is here,” says the author,
  “because I find him the most interesting and suggestive of living
  writers. His presence helps one to distinguish the values of his
  competitors. His humanism serves as a measure of the degrees of their
  naturalism.” Contents: The democracy of Mark Twain; The Utopian
  naturalism of H. G. Wells; The barbaric naturalism of Theodore
  Dreiser; The realism of Arnold Bennett; The aesthetic naturalism of
  George Moore; The skepticism of Anatole France; The exoticism of John
  Synge; The complacent Toryism of Alfred Austin; The aesthetic idealism
  of Henry James; The humanism of George Meredith; Shakespeare, our
  contemporary.

  “Despite the limitations suggested by the titles, Professor Sherman
  gives a fairly complete view of each of his ten modern writers.” E. F.
  E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 D 22 ‘17 770w

  “Mr Sherman really offers us many acute and many weighty pages; there
  is a subterranean stream of humor from whose half-hidden courses one
  may occasionally sip a gratefully saline draught; and his
  introduction, which is really the essence of the book, begins on a
  charming, captivating note, and rises toward the end, where the war
  enters, to a tone of noble gravity. Yet one finds a little too much
  deference, however cloaked, for our farther East, and an unwillingness
  to give recognition to the fact that this spinning world must change.”
  H: B. Fuller

     – + =Dial= 64:105 Ja 31 ‘18 1450w

  “The essence of Mr Sherman’s criticism is American correctness, that
  bloodless correctness to which New England has given its wintry
  flavor. It is correctness rampant that makes Mr Sherman’s crest
  different from the ordinary heraldry; and the main delectation of his
  book is its conservative call to arms. Mr Sherman preaches a forlorn
  gospel when he begs us to cower behind the moral life of the race to
  peer at art.” F. H.

       — =New Repub= 13:318 Ja 12 ‘18 2100w

  “We have said that Mr Sherman is thoughtful, but we do not stand
  sponsor for much of his thinking. Much of it is muddled, or is cast in
  such a mold that all sense of perspective is lost. We cannot escape
  the feeling that Mr Sherman as critic plays second fiddle to Mr
  Sherman as echo of literary and popular opinion.” F. J. K.

     – + =N Y Call= p15 Ja 26 ‘18 1150w

  “Mr Sherman is a literary critic primarily, with the insight and the
  equipment, the disinterestedness and the sympathy with which the
  literary critic must needs be endowed if his work is to win respect;
  and yet, so closely is literature related to life that Mr Sherman, in
  dealing with three of the novelists of the moment, is compelled to be
  a moralist. ... In these three papers [on Wells and Dreiser and Moore]
  inspired by one purpose he rises above the criticism of literature to
  the criticism of life itself.” Brander Matthews

       + =N Y Times= 22:577 D 30 ‘17 1950w

       + =Outlook= 118:32 Ja 2 ‘18 90w

  “It is precisely this uncompromising attitude that becomes so
  irritating to those of us who happen to look upon contemporary letters
  with a more open mind and a more indulgent spirit. Professor Sherman,
  with his invaluable background of classicism ... is a qualified and
  much needed preceptor of public aesthetics. But not content with this,
  he appoints himself custodian of the public morals. ... It would be
  ungracious not to mention in conclusion the almost flawless
  appreciation of Henry James.” F: T. Cooper

     – + =Pub W= 93:219 Ja 19 ‘18 950w

         =R of Rs= 57:216 F ‘18 210w


=SHERWOOD, MARGARET POLLOCK.= Familiar ways. *$1.25 (4c) Little 814
17-25113

  Five of the fifteen essays in this volume appeared in the Atlantic
  Monthly, nine in Scribner’s Magazine, and one, “The comradeship of
  trees,” in the Vassar Alumnae Quarterly. “Our nearest,—and
  farthest,—neighbors” tells of the birds, and “The final packing”
  considers the luggage one may carry “through heaven’s gate.” Contents:
  The little house; Our Venetian lamp; House-cleaning; The vegetable
  self; The sabbatical year; It is well to be off with the old house
  before you are on with the new; Real estate; Our nearest,—and
  farthest,—neighbors; Plain country; Gardens, real and imagined; The
  comradeship of trees; Brother Fire; The threshold; Old trails; The
  final packing.

  “Charmingly written, intimate essays.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:51 N ‘17

  “Only here and there as we browse among the books of a season do we
  find one that has this exquisite quality about it—this intimate,
  revealing manner of changing the common experience into something of
  significance for us. To those who care only for the surfaces of
  literature, this book will also possess a charm in its delicate,
  effervescing humor.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 7 ‘17 1200w

       + =Cleveland= p134 D ‘17 50w

       + =Dial= 63:466 N 8 ‘17 50w

       + =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 50w

  “No description can adequately indicate the charm and inspiration she
  puts into a few simple words. There are beauty and truth in her words,
  glorification of small duties, helps for the unavoidable burdens, and
  a spirit of comradeship and sympathy, for which we are all grateful.”

       + =Lit D= 55:52 D 1 ‘17 140w

  “A chapter is better than a book full of this placidly charming but
  too frequently unideaed prose. The reader flags in the presence of
  revery that seldom brightens to the vividness of dream, and of a
  breath of poetical feeling that will not rise to a dream.”

     + — =Nation= 106:150 F 7 ‘18 350w


=SHESTOV, LEON.= Penultimate words, and other essays. *$1.25 (2½c) Luce,
J: W. 891.7

  Leon Shestov is a Russian critic and essayist. The essays in this
  volume are taken from his “Apotheosis of groundlessness” and
  “Beginnings and ends.” The longest essay is that on Tchekhov, which
  takes up 60 of the 225 pages. Contents: Anton Tchekhov; The gift of
  prophecy [study of Dostoevsky]; Penultimate words; The theory of
  knowledge.

  “In his book, Shestov attacks many philosophers and authors, devoting
  articles of varying length to Hegel, Schopenhauer and others—a
  destructive criticism, for he gives us no discoverable positive
  philosophy of his own in the place of those destroyed.” Nellie Poorman

       — =Dial= 62:482 My 31 ‘17 260w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p627 D 21 ‘16 100w

  “Criticism with Shestov is not a hand-to-mouth business. He does not
  choose a subject and then begin to wonder what he can find to say
  about it. His criticism is philosophy expounded by means of a
  particular example, and rather hinted at than expounded. One feels
  that he has strong convictions, but is shy of proclaiming them.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p40 Ja 25 ‘17 1300w


=SHIPLEY, ARTHUR EVERETT.= Studies in insect life, and other essays. il
*$3.50 Dutton 504 (Eng ed SG17-225)

  “Dr Shipley for many years has taken an active part in promoting,
  directing, and sharing in zoological investigations with an immediate
  economic bearing.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) Contents: Insects and
  war; The honey-bee; Bombus, the humble-bee; On certain differences
  between wasps and bees; The romance of the depths of the sea; Sea
  fisheries; Sir John Murray: a great oceanographer; Grouse disease;
  Zoology in the time of Shakespeare; The revival of science in the 17th
  century; Hate.

  “Essays as instructive as they are pleasing. ... The author is not
  afraid to introduce a touch of humour.”

         =Ath= p99 F ‘17 50w

  “Some of his sentences are remarkable for their entire lack of
  punctuation. Some of them are also extremely awkward, but on the whole
  it is lively reading and is a good book to put into the hands of a boy
  who likes the study of nature.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 28 ‘17 530w

  “They are all so written as to be intelligible to the lay reader and
  they are of more than passing interest.”

       + =Dial= 63:399 O 25 ‘17 260w

  “The title is two-thirds inappropriate, and the addresses as written
  are of unequal value. ... The first and last essays, entitled
  respectively ‘Insects and war’ and ‘Hate,’ are the most original and
  the best written.”

     + — =Nation= 105:377 O 4 ‘17 450w

  “It is Dr Shipley’s gift to write scientific essays artistically. ...
  He has humour and a light touch, and things are so interesting to
  himself that they become interesting to us. Not that we pretend to
  explain his style, which permits of luminous, dignified discourse on
  lice and fleas, as well as on fisheries and grouse.”

       + =Nature= 99:244 My 24 ‘17 400w

  “The essay on ‘Hate’ is a discursive and rather superficial analysis
  of that emotion which makes good reading, but begins and ends nowhere
  in particular.”

         =N Y Times= 22:348 S 16 ‘17 420w

  “He winds up with an amusing essay on ‘Hate.’”

       + =Spec= 118:342 Mr 17 ‘17 150w

  “Three essays on bees and wasps probably arose from Dr Shipley’s part
  in stimulating inquiry into the Isle of Wight bee disease.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p100 Mr 1 ‘17 750w


=SHKLOVSKII, ISAAK VLADIMIROVICH (DIONEO, pseud.).= In far north-east
Siberia; tr. by L. Edwards and Z. Shklovsky. il *$3 Macmillan 915.7
17-3732

  “The present volume is an exceptionally interesting contribution to
  our knowledge of Siberia. The author passed four years in the Kolyma
  region of the province of Yakutsk, and the result is a book containing
  a remarkable amount of information concerning the customs and mode of
  existence of the Yakuts, Chooktchi, Lamouts, and other natives of that
  depressing country, where life is a ceaseless struggle with cold,
  famine, and disease.”—Ath

  “The book contains much interesting matter relative to the hut-life
  and manners of these little-known races; and there are light touches.”

       + =Ath= p48 Ja ‘17 400w

  “It corrects several prevalent errors of the anthropologists and
  ethnologists.”

       + =Dial= 62:446 My 17 ‘17 250w

  “There are many illustrations of places, people, weapons, and native
  drawings, all of which add to the pleasure that any one must take in
  this volume, and the map of Yakutsk makes it easy to follow the text
  understandingly.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:196 My 20 ‘17 350w

  “One of the most fascinating books of travel published for many a long
  day.” Bishop Frodsham

       + =Sat R= 122:626 D 30 ‘16 1200w

  “It is a little-known book written by a Russian Jew who was apparently
  banished to the region described, and it was published about a quarter
  of a century ago. The author is a journalist who has won distinction
  by reporting affairs in England in the Russian press. ... ‘In far
  north-east Siberia’ should be studied by all students of Siberia and
  of ethnography generally. For it is unique in its details.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p631 D 28 ‘16 750w


=SHOREY, PAUL.= Assault on humanism. 60c Atlantic monthly 375 17-18361

  These essays in defense of classical studies by Professor Shorey have
  been reprinted from the Atlantic Monthly to form the first volume in
  the series of “Atlantic monographs,” to be published by the Atlantic
  Monthly company.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:43 N ‘17

  “Nothing could be less urbane, less rational and precise, than this
  strident polemic. ... The Atlantic has done a disservice in stirring
  the dead bones of this controversy to rattle again. ... Even the
  radical will regret that the polemics of the classical tradition
  should go out in so tasteless a splutter as this first of the Atlantic
  monographs.” Randolph Bourne

       — =Dial= 63:148 Ag 30 ‘17 1500w

  “The main virtue of Professor Shorey’s method is the consummate skill
  with which he carries the warfare into the camp of the enemy. Any one
  familiar with his powers of irony and sarcasm need not be told that he
  sets forth the illogical procedure and dishonest assumptions of the
  present-day pedagogues in a way to cause inextinguishable laughter on
  the slopes of Parnassus.”

         =Nation= 105:98 Jl 26 ‘17 100w

  “A brilliant defense of the classics.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:693 O ‘17 20w

  “Prof. Paul Shorey upholds the standard of sound learning and literary
  culture—qualities which are in need of defenders in a land where the
  half-educated are at present more aggressive than the educated.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 30 ‘17 680w


=SHOWERMAN, GRANT.= Country child. il *$1.75 (2c) Century 17-28802

  This book of sketches forms a companion volume to “A country
  chronicle,” published last year. The small boy, whose sensations and
  emotions the author is able to recreate so vividly thru a remarkable
  memory for little things, is younger in this book. In the beginning he
  is a little boy in dresses,—as you will remember, little boys used to
  wear dresses in those days. The first half of the book, “A country
  child,” is an account of those early years. The second part, “Barefoot
  boys,” describes school days and the beginning of boy friendships.
  Delightful bits of local color are provided in conversations with the
  friendly German hired-hand, who, a generation ago, was so important a
  feature of life in every Wisconsin farm home.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:98 D ‘17

  “Never have the sights and sounds, the tastes and smells and tactile
  sensations of the farm been more realistically presented than in this
  book.”

       + =Dial= 63:592 D 6 ‘17 280w

  “Strong in charm and appeal. ... The reader in retrospect is led to
  write his own story in his mind, and so gets a double enjoyment out of
  the book.”

       + =Lit D= 55:51 D 29 ‘17 170w

  “The continuous use of the present tense grows pretty monotonous
  before the end of this second book; and by monotony the pictorial
  effect of the method is well-nigh lost.”

     + — =Nation= 106:118 Ja 31 ‘18 250w

         =N Y Times= 22:469 N 11 ‘17 150w

       + =Outlook= 117:475 N 21 ‘17 20w

  “Prof. Showerman seems to have reproduced a child’s mind with
  photographic accuracy, and the result is a success which is scientific
  but principally—as also ostensibly—from the literary standpoint.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 13 ‘17 250w


=SHULER, MARJORIE.= For rent—one pedestal. $1 (4c) National woman
suffrage pub. 324.3 17-7811

  In a series of letters to a friend, a young college woman describes
  her conversion to woman suffrage and her experiences as a suffrage
  worker. It all begins with her dismissal from her first position as a
  teacher for political reasons. Recognizing for the first time the
  relation between politics and woman’s work, she becomes an ardent
  worker for the cause, and the writes with spirit and humor of all the
  adventures that she meets as canvasser, street speaker, etc.

  “Sometimes one has a faint suspicion that the story is a disguised
  text-book on how to make a suffrage speech, how to run mass meetings
  and street meetings, and convert farmers at fairs, and on methods of
  distributing literature and advertising the cause—the public
  biscuit-making incident, for instance. But the sugar-coating hides the
  pill quite successfully.”

         =N Y Call= p14 Ap 15 ‘17 240w


=SHURTER, EDWIN DU BOIS.= How to debate. *$1.35 Harper 808.5 17-24074

  “This book treats of the various ways of convincing and persuading
  men. While intended as a text-book for high schools and colleges, it
  is also adapted to the needs of the lawyer, the preacher, the teacher,
  the citizen: in short, to any one who is called upon—and who is
  not?—to urge the acceptance of his ideas upon a hearer, or to refute
  ideas offered in opposition thereto.” (Preface) The book is an
  outgrowth of the author’s former work, “Science and art of debate,”
  published in 1908. Contents: Introduction—The advantages of debate;
  The proposition; Analysis of the question; Proof; Evidence;
  Arguments—constructive; Argument—refutation; The brief; Persuasion;
  Methods in school and college debating. Questions for debate, a
  specimen debate, rules of parliamentary procedure, bibliographies,
  etc., are given in appendixes.

  “An excellent treatise.”

       + =Cath World= 106:398 D ‘17 130w

  “The bibliography is not up to date.”

     + — =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 60w

  “Fifteen years of training students in the University of Texas to play
  the game have enabled the author to produce a very practical book. It
  is superior to its predecessors in that the old classic illustrations
  are supplemented by many modern instances showing that the old shifts
  still lead to success. ... But there is no evidence that the author is
  aware how much his theories have been modified by modern
  investigations in modern individual or social psychology.” C. R.

     + — =N Y Call= p15 S 30 ‘17 140w


=SHURTER, EDWIN DUBOIS=, ed.[2] Winning declamations and how to speak
them. $1.25 Noble, L. A. 808.5 17-6669

  This collection of selections in prose and verse has been prepared by
  the professor of public speaking in the University of Texas, who says,
  “Practically every selection in this volume has been tried out in
  class work and in public contests. ... The declamations are intended
  for training the public speaker, and not the dramatic reader or mere
  entertainer.” The book is divided into two parts: For intermediate and
  grammar grades; and For high schools and colleges. An introduction
  discusses the art of public speaking and each selection is prefaced by
  brief suggestions for the speaker.

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:75 My ‘17


=SHUTE, HENRY AUGUSTUS.= Youth Plupy; or, The lad with a downy chin. il
*$1.35 (2c) Houghton 17-23759

  Plupy has figured in “The real diary of a real boy”; “Real boys”;
  “Plupy, the ‘real boy,’”; and “Misadventures of three good boys.”
  Judge Shute’s dedication reads as follows: “This book, which contains
  a fairly veracious account of the love affairs of a long-legged,
  gawky, sensitive, bashful, absurd, and ridiculous youth, is dedicated,
  with a sincere fellow-feeling, to all such youths. I see them daily
  passing my office. Their coat-sleeves are all-too-short, the legs of
  their trousers all-too-brief, their wrists and ankles, in startling
  contrast to their abnormally thin shanks and arms, seem
  over-developed. They are opulent in white eyelashes, blushes, mobile
  Adam’s-apples, affection, and honesty. Their voices are—well, beyond
  description. God bless them all.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:99 D ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 50w

  “Capital reading—first-class for the fag-end of a weary day.”

       + =Dial= 63:647 D 20 ‘17 80w

  “He is an entirely real boy and the various members of his family are
  real people.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:373 S 30 ‘17 250w

       + =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 30w

  “If the book seems to have been written for boys, one reader’s guess
  is that it will get a more sympathetic reading from a large number of
  men of mature years who will grin with personal reminiscence as Judge
  Shute holds the mirror for them as well as for himself.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 200w


=SIDGWICK, CECILY (ULLMANN) (MRS ALFRED SIDGWICK).= Salt of the earth.
*$1.40 Watt 17-20666

  Brenda Müller, the heroine, was of German parentage, but English
  training and sympathies. She visited her relatives in Germany several
  times, and some of them visited the Müllers in England. This ended in
  her marriage to her cousin, Lothar Erdmann, a typical Prussian
  officer, settled in Berlin. Brenda was unhappy among Lothar’s
  relatives and friends, who thought themselves the “salt of the earth,”
  and her husband proved unfaithful, but though she realized that she
  had made a mistake, she stood ready to pay the price. When the war
  broke out and Lothar was called to the colors, he forced Brenda to
  remain with his parents in Berlin, but later she followed him to
  Belgium, and eventually escaped to her parents in London. Lothar also
  went to London to direct Zeppelin raids, and was shot as a spy.

  “The English goodness and the German badness are exaggerated, so that
  the story is timely but lacks reality.”

     – + =A L A Bkl= 14:62 N ‘17

  “The novel is clever and readable, but we think that the patriotic
  feelings of the author have tempted her to colour too highly the
  characters of certain Germans introduced in the book. The uncle, in
  particular, is quite preternaturally objectionable.”

     + — =Ath= p482 O ‘16 100w

  “The careful reading of this illuminating story is especially
  recommended to those American altruists who smugly assert that they
  are not at war with the German people, but only with the German
  government.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 8 ‘17 830w

     + — =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 100w

  “A chronicle of hate for Prussianism, well thought out and presented.”

       + =Dial= 63:353 O 11 ‘17 220w

  “Brenda is a real person, intelligent, long suffering, striving to
  keep on decent terms with her husband’s impossible family. ... The
  descriptions are well done and vivid, the various members of the
  Erdmann tribe cleverly sketched.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:302 Ag 19 ‘17 610w

  “In spite of the opportunities for sensationalism which the material
  offers, Mrs Sidgwick has told her story in a quiet and convincing way
  which makes for realism.” R. D. Moore

       + =Pub W= 92:1377 O 20 ‘17 480w

  “Its action is so placed as to permit a frank exposé of the sinister
  activities of the Prussian military caste, and the poisonous effect of
  the propaganda of ‘welt politik’ upon the German masses. ... It is an
  entertaining story, narrated with spirit.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 12 ‘17 550w


=SIGURJONSSON, JOHANN.= Modern Icelandic plays: Eyvind of the hills; The
Hraun farm; tr. by Henninge Krohn Schanche. (Scandinavian classics, v.
6) $1.50 Am.-Scandinavian foundation 839.6 16-22079

  “The author is introduced to the American public by the
  American-Scandinavian foundation as a representative of the
  renaissance of Icelandic literature. ... The stronger and later play,
  ‘Eyvind of the hills,’ is based on a romantic story of an eighteenth
  century outlaw who, having wearied of the loneliness of his mountain
  retreat, descends to the valleys and under an assumed name takes
  service as a farm hand. His mistress Halla, a well-to-do widow, falls
  in love with him; and rejecting the advances of Björn the bailiff, who
  has discovered that the supposed farm hand is the notorious outlaw,
  she flees to the mountains with her lover. ... The second piece, ‘The
  Hraun farm,’ is a modern story of pastoral Icelandic life; it has
  charm, but lacks the force and daring of ‘Eyvind of the hills.’”—Dial

         =A L A Bkl= 13:303 Ap ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p36 Mr ‘17 140w

  “Though these plays were produced in Copenhagen, and though one of
  them was originally written in Danish, they are thoroughly Icelandic
  in setting and spirit. ... Both plays are notable for their
  spontaneity and freshness; the strong clear wind of the north blows
  through them. They deserve a wide reading in Mrs Schanche’s excellent
  translation.” H. E. Woodbridge

       + =Dial= 62:68 Ja 25 ‘17 300w

  “Written in prose, ‘Eyvind of the hills’ has that utter simplicity of
  vibrant strength that marks great poetry.”

       + =Ind= 92:488 D 8 ‘17 260w

       + =Nation= 104:682 Je 7 ‘17 900w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:185 D ‘16

  “‘Eyvind of the hills,’ which made its author famous, is a tragedy,
  written with much beauty and a fine simplicity. ... ‘The Hraun farm,’
  is a charmingly written little idyll.”

       + =Spec= 118:176 F 10 ‘17 200w


=SIMKHOVITCH, MARY MELINDA (KINGSBURY) (MRS VLADIMIR GREGORIEVITCH
SIMKHOVITCH).= City worker’s world in America. (American social progress
ser.) *$1.25 (3c) Macmillan 331.8 17-15550

  The aim of this book by the director of Greenwich house, New York
  city, is to describe simply and briefly the main facts concerning the
  life of the industrial population of an American city. The term
  “industrial family” as used in her study, is applied to wage-workers
  whose family income ranges from $1,500 down to the minimum of
  subsistence below which the family becomes a public charge. The
  question to which she gives attention is: “How does this important
  group of workers live? Not only what are the incomes and expenditures
  of this group, but what values lie in this group that we cannot afford
  to lose from the social whole, and what is society already doing or
  failing to do to protect these values and develop them for the sake of
  us all?” Contents: The industrial family; Dwellings; Standard of
  living; Education; At work; Leisure; Health; Poverty; Politics;
  Religion.

  “With the facts that are presented, all persons who have been
  interested in the life of the working people are fairly well
  acquainted, but the arrangement and the interpretation are frequently
  original, and the synthetic treatment is a real contribution to social
  literature. ... The book is full of clever phrasing and keen
  interpretation.” F. H. Streightoff

       + =Am Econ R= 7:906 D ‘17 290w

  Reviewed by E. L. Talbert

       + =Am J Soc= 23:547 Ja ‘18 300w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:78 D ‘17

  “The chapter on ‘Polities’ is particularly trenchant, and deserves not
  only to be read but to be studied by every teacher of civic affairs.
  On the ever-recurring question as to why municipal reform so often
  receives a setback in the great cities of this country there is a
  great deal of illumination in this chapter.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:157 F ‘18 100w

  “The author has made conscious effort to write objectively of the life
  of her neighbors. The book will be of special value to the increasing
  number of those interested in the exploration of the new paths of
  community development already being trod in city neighborhoods.”
  Francis Tyson

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:304 N ‘17 430w

  “Those curious to know how the majority of their neighbors live will
  here find the loves, fears, joys and sorrows of the industrial family
  painted with a sympathy always vivid, yet refreshingly lacking in
  sentimentality.”

       + =Cath World= 106:264 N ‘17 350w

         =Cleveland= p108 S ‘17 40w

  “To the lay reader this is an uncommonly enlightening and suggestive
  book. ... It is written with eyes wide open to all the good that is in
  the possession of the town laborer and it is not engaged in the
  propaganda of any panacea or particular reform.”

       + =Ind= 91:74 Jl 14 ‘17 500w

  “The attitude is one of warm-hearted intimacy with the class whose
  life is described, and considerable insight into that life is
  revealed. There is no doubt that the writer knows what she is talking
  about when she describes conditions.”

       + =Nation= 105:374 O 4 ‘17 260w

  “Mrs Simkhovitch has imagination and fervor, as well as the power of
  creation. She has scored an indubitable success in bringing to bear on
  the subject a definite point of view, a well-formulated social ethics.
  She is on the borderline of socialism, but she will not take the next
  step.” D: Rosenstein

       + =N Y Call= p14 S 30 ‘17 1350w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:690 O ‘17 40w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 9 ‘17 420w

  “As a sketch of the right method of approach to community issues, it
  is a fresh and genuine contribution. To a great supporting circle of
  volunteers, contributors, kindred spirits, and to all the apprentices
  of social work, this book is among the few indispensable. Read with
  intervals of reflection, it will be like a professional course of the
  waters to many practiced members of the craft.” R. A. Woods

       + =Survey= 38:367 Jl 28 ‘17 1000w


=SIMMONS, WILLIAM HERBERT.=[2] Soap; its composition, manufacture, and
properties. (Common commodities of commerce) il *85c (2c) Pitman 668
A17-1564

  The author’s aim has been “to describe in as non-technical terms as
  possible, firstly, the relationship between fat, alkali, soap, and
  glycerine; secondly, the more important practical methods of soap
  manufacture; and, thirdly, the chief factors which determine the
  commercial value of soap.” (Preface) He points out that the use of
  glycerine in the manufacture of explosives has given rise to a new
  interest in its production and in its relations to fats and oils and
  the manufacture of soap. The final chapter is given to this subject.

         =Pittsburgh= 22:759 N ‘17 40w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p420 Ag 30 ‘17 40w


=SIMONIS, H.= Street of ink. il *$3 Funk 072 17-17844

  “H. Simonis, a director of the London Daily News, gives the public
  what is described as ‘an intimate history of journalism.’ Here, within
  the compass of 350-odd pages, are brief notes on about every daily and
  weekly paper of importance in England and on practically all of the
  principal [British] editors and publishers of today.”—Springf’d
  Republican

  “A remarkably interesting and informing book. The writer’s fondness
  for illustrative anecdote contributes no little to the entertaining
  quality of his pages.”

     + — =Dial= 63:399 O 25 ‘17 190w

  “Most entertaining and deftly drawn character sketches. The whole work
  teems with novel and captivating information imparted in a crisp,
  chatty style that makes it doubly readable.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 S 29 ‘17 340w

  “Such an encyclopedic effort, if successful, establishes naturally an
  excellent reference work. Mr Simonis’s effort is successful. He has a
  chapter on the press of France and the United States, another on ‘Some
  well known journals and journalists,’ one on ‘Old and new
  journalism.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:313 Ag 26 ‘17 950w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:772 N ‘17 50w

  “Those who work for the press, on its literary or commercial side,
  know that the occupation is not so much of a mutual admiration society
  as Mr Simonis would have us believe, but they will read with amused
  interest his eulogistic notes on the various daily and weekly
  publications. He knows much more about the halfpenny papers and about
  their publishing and advertising staffs than about the weightier
  papers and the literary aspects of journalism as a whole. The numerous
  portraits in the book are, for the most part, not nearly so flattering
  as the letterpress.”

         =Spec= 118:568 My 19 ‘17 320w

  “Mr Simonis’s aim is to eulogize rather than criticize. Yet within the
  limits that he has set to his subject, he is a commentator who is
  shrewd as well as amiable. The wisdom of experience crops out in a
  hundred observations. Also, his information, wherever separable from
  opinion, is accurate.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 18 ‘17 1350w


=SIMS, NEWELL LEROY.= Ultimate democracy and its making. *$1.50 (1½c)
McClurg 321.8 17-13223

  The author, who is professor of sociology and political science in the
  University of Florida, tells us that he has used much of the
  subjectmatter of this book in lectures delivered in and about New York
  city and in a classroom course. His purpose is to clarify “the meaning
  and aims of democracy.” He deals with ancient, modern, and “ultimate”
  democracy. “As conceived by him democracy is essentially a matter of
  equality, with liberty and fraternity as necessary expressions. It
  existed in the pioneer days of America, but has declined under the
  inequalities forced by our rapid industrial growth and under our
  wholesale welcoming of alien populations. This decline, he believes,
  is only temporary. Democracy will again come into its own when a
  program of four necessary changes has been fulfilled—economic
  equality; a eugenics to prevent inefficiency; a new type of
  sovereignty in which ‘the popular will causes the whole social
  organism to function for the good of all its parts’; and finally,
  ‘social equilibration,’ a process of so equalizing the various
  energies of the race that occasions for disturbances like wars between
  classes or nations will disappear.” (Survey)

  “To the perennial discussion of democracy, what it is and what it
  means, the book is a useful and in some ways a noteworthy
  contribution.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:793 N ‘17 60w

  “Professor Sims has written a thoughtful and spirited survey of
  significant tendencies and aspirations in American democracy.” L. P.
  F.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:301 N ‘17 260w

  “It is asserted, but not proven, that the working classes of all
  countries are devouring economics, sociology, and philosophy—a fairly
  broad but unsupported statement.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 380w

  “Professor Sims is well read in the moderns, notably Giddings, Croly,
  and Veblen. ... Few will read Giddings, Croly, or even Veblen all
  through, and here is a way to supply the deficiency. Professor Sims
  quotes excellently.”

         =Dial= 63:352 O 11 ‘17 130w

         =Ind= 91:294 Ag 25 ‘17 90w

  “An expression of an aspiring but timid radicalism.” Max Lustig

     + — =N Y Call= p15 Jl 1 ‘17 800w

       + =N Y Times= 22:436 O 28 ‘17 60w

  “The mass of facts, figures, and sociological deductions brought
  together by Dr Sims from many sources evinces the fact that democracy
  is still in the making. The inferences he draws from the exhibit are
  misleading.”

       — =Outlook= 116:626 Ag 22 ‘17 120w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:830 D ‘17 110w

  “A very readable book. ... The type of social stability which he hails
  as an ultimate solution is perilously akin, we cannot help thinking,
  to the pax Romana of old.” H: Neumann

     + — =Survey= 38:441 Ag 18 ‘17 480w


=SINCLAIR, MAY.= Defence of idealism; some questions and conclusions.
*$2 Macmillan 141 17-21850

  “In this book the author, from the idealistic monist’s statement,
  deals with pragmatism; with humanism and pluralism generally; with the
  vitalism of M. Bergson, with Samuel Butler’s pan-psychism, and with
  the new realism of Mr. Bertrand Russell and others. A noteworthy
  chapter is devoted to the new mysticism; and there are highly
  appreciative commentaries upon the writings of Sir Rabindranath
  Tagore. ... The book has no index.”—Ath

       + =Ath= p518 O ‘17 100w

  “One cannot say that the logic is always sound. No; not always sound,
  but always keen, vigorous, lively, readable.” M. C. Otto

     + — =Dial= 63:582 D 6 ‘17 1000w

  “A robust sense of the inevitableness of individuality runs through
  the book from beginning to end, and is the most obvious thing in
  it. ... The sympathetic reader will probably not fail to discern
  something of the sense of ‘a spirit home at last’ in the warm
  appreciation of the higher mysticism, and of Tagore. ... From various
  indications, one traces in her discussion of the new realists the
  marks of its being an afterthought; it is a very brilliant sudden
  sally, rather than the outcome of years of study. And indeed, if one
  were forced to offer a criticism of the work as a whole, it would be
  just this: that the book is not, to all appearance, the ripe result of
  a life study. No doubt the brilliant author would grow tired of
  philosophy long before she had given a lifetime to it. And that is
  perhaps the world’s gain. But at the same time, as we feel compelled
  to think, it is philosophy’s loss.” J. W. Scott

 *   + – =Hibbert J= 16:336 Ja ‘18 2050w

  “Written with a most refreshing ease and freedom from technicality.
  Professional students cannot fail to regard such a book as a
  gratifying proof of the vitality of philosophy in this country.”

     + — =Nature= 100:342 Ja 3 ‘18 460w

  “The charm of the book must be felt, indeed, by every reader who has
  the smallest drop of philosophy in his nature, and this charm is not
  in the least inconsistent with rigorous logic. Miss Sinclair has
  perhaps written more entertainingly about philosophy than any one
  since Plato; she has triumphed in the most difficult domain of
  literary art.”

     + — =No Am= 206:952 D ‘17 1250w

         =Outlook= 117:308 O 24 ‘17 120w

  “A notable contribution to modern philosophic speculation, well
  planned, well written, and well thought.”

     + — =Spec= 119:388 O 13 ‘17 1050w

  “Miss Sinclair brings to bear upon these abstract studies the same
  keenness of insight that characterizes her studies of men. She is now
  delineating ideas, not persons. The book is not systematic, and it is
  not constructive, but it presents ideas, particularly critical ideas,
  which will set students to thinking.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 29 ‘17 850w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p407 Ag 23 ‘17 120w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p424 S 6 ‘17 2150w


=SINCLAIR, UPTON BEALL.= King Coal. *$1.50 (1½c) Macmillan 17-24400

  What Upton Sinclair did for the stockyards in “The jungle,” he does
  for the unorganized coal mining camps in “King Coal.” There is a brief
  introduction by Georg Brandes, and a postscript of thirteen pages by
  the author giving his sources of information, etc. He tells us that
  most of the details of his picture were gathered in Colorado, which he
  visited three times during and just after the great coal strike of
  1914-15. The greater part of the source material in print used was
  “sworn testimony, taken under government supervision.” The leading
  character in the book is Hal Warner, known as Joe Smith, a rich boy of
  twenty-one, still in college, who, as a result of arguments with an
  older brother as to the conditions in the coal mines, decides to work
  as a miner during his summer vacation that he may gain first-hand
  knowledge of the situation. He becomes first a mule tender and later a
  “buddy,” or miner’s helper. His rich and beautiful fiancée is lightly
  sketched in. “Red Mary,” a forceful young Irish girl at the camp, also
  falls in love with him, but the emotional is subordinated to the
  sociological interest in the story. “Joe” meets men of various
  nationalities, learns how the company has got into its clutch “all the
  legal, political and social safeguards of personal rights and social
  welfare”; and takes part in the fight for a check-weighman to guard
  against cheating, for various safety measures and for the right to
  form a union.

  “It is not sensational, has some good characters ... and the whole is
  interesting and illuminating.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:63 N ‘17

       + =Ath= p596 N ‘17 140w

  “‘King Coal’ is an absorbing story, as a story, and an exceedingly
  effective tract, as a tract. We do not doubt that its physical action
  is closely based on fact, but we do doubt whether, in making all his
  rich men fools or rascals, and all his poor men heroes or victims, he
  does not risk the defeat of his appeal to those of his audience who
  are unable to subscribe to the code of the screen.”

  H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 46:338 N ‘17 190w

  “Mr Sinclair is a born story-teller. He writes, to be sure, with a
  purpose, but he never lets this fact obtrude itself on the
  consciousness of the reader. His picture is so vivid, so full of color
  and breadth and movement, and so convincing that it has a value of its
  own quite apart from its propagandist purpose.” R. T. P.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 10 ‘17 1350w

       + =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 90w

  “The novel-reader who chances to appreciate a really novel design in a
  work of fiction will like ‘King Coal’ both for its originality and its
  independence. The limitation of the book is its tendency to
  predetermination, its lack of curiosity and interest in keen
  ascertainments and differentiations, its apparent belief in formulas.”
  E. F. Wyatt

     + — =Dial= 63:587 D 6 ‘17 1300w

  “None of the characters seems real, but is created by the author to
  illustrate his points or fill in the picture. But the underlying
  thought burns brightly and the author’s meaning is as clear as day. He
  has the power to interest, which always attends sincere purpose and
  thoughtful presentation.”

     + — =Lit D= 55:42 O 27 ‘17 400w

  “No reader of this record will doubt the honesty of the chronicler’s
  opinion or the accuracy of his chosen facts, or will fail to see that
  the facts have been chosen and assembled somewhat carefully, in the
  light of that opinion, to ‘compose’ as strongly and effectively as
  possible. ... This story has far more balance and restraint than the
  writer has hitherto mustered: ‘The jungle’ is a lurid tract by
  comparison. It is an absorbing narrative, and it contains at least one
  strong and living piece of characterization, in Mary Burke. ... But
  for the rest the writer’s animus is over-plain.”

     – + =Nation= 105:403 O 11 ‘17 650w

  “Upton Sinclair slaps melodrama and sociology together so honestly as
  to make it easy for you to believe that ‘practically all the
  characters are real persons, and every incident which has social
  significance is not merely a true incident but a typical one.’ ... Yet
  ‘King Coal’ is an exceedingly vivacious narrative, boyishly sincere.”
  R. B.

     + — =New Repub= 12:359 O 27 ‘17 1400w

  “Since ‘The jungle’ had its phenomenal success, Mr Sinclair has
  written nothing so good as this novel. The book presents a striking
  likeness to ‘The inner door’ by Alan Sullivan. Both deal with upper
  class men leading working class lives, and both portray their
  conversion. Of the two books, Mr Sinclair’s work rings truer.” D: P.
  Berenberg

     + — =N Y Call= p14 O 7 ‘17 430w

  “Artistically, this new novel is a better piece of work than ‘The
  jungle,’ more compact, better constructed, with swifter, a more
  centralized purpose, while its picture of life in a great coal camp
  yields nothing to that portrayal of existence among the employes of
  the Chicago stock yards in vivid coloring, in understanding of racial
  types, and in the sincere and convincing quality of its setting. ...
  The introduction by Dr Georg Brandes is a distinct disappointment. At
  the least, the publishers of the book might have rectified its
  English.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:354 S 23 ‘17 1200w

  “So far as the manipulation of the vote is concerned, the documentary
  evidence given in an epilogue shows that Mr Sinclair is on strong
  ground. But viewed simply as a story it is vivid, exciting, and
  impressive.”

       + =Spec 119:681 D= 8 ‘17 630w

  “The book is more than an exposure of certain outrageous industrial
  practices. It is an admirable study of human character and motives.
  For the most part the characters are genuine types.” J: A. Fitch

       + =Survey 39:257= D 1 ‘17 460w

  “It is hard to interest oneself in his characters, for their actions
  are dictated to them by their creator for his own moral purpose. It is
  hard, too, to take Mr Sinclair’s facts as the basis for logical
  inferences, for they are mixed up inextricably with fiction—he insists
  on appealing to the mind and the emotions at once and the one appeal
  distracts attention from the other.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p493 O 11 ‘17 780w


=SINGMASTER, ELSIE (MRS HAROLD LEWARS).= Long journey. il *$1 (2c)
Houghton 17-6324

  The journey of a little band of German pilgrims to America is the
  theme of this story. From the village that has been sacked and left
  destitute by the French. John Conrad Weiser and his children start on
  the long journey to the new home where freedom and peace are promised
  to all. First there is the journey down the Rhine, then the long and
  hopeless wait in England for the ships that the English queen was to
  provide. To young Conrad, thirteen years old, this delay is almost
  unbearable after all his dreams of the new land. The sight on the
  London streets of three scarlet-blanketed Indians revives his hope,
  and it is indeed thru these new friends that the German immigrants are
  granted their wish, passage to America. Here there are more hardships
  to be undergone, until the final stage of the journey, along the
  Mohawk trail, brings them home.

  “For upper-grade and high-school children.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:408 Je ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:172 Ap 29 ‘17 120w

  “The narrative is simple, pathetic, and human.”

       + =Outlook= 115:622 Ap 4 ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p52 O ‘17 10w

         =St Louis= 15:378 O ‘17 30w


=SINGMASTER, ELSIE (MRS HAROLD LEWARS).= Martin Luther. il *$1 (3½c)
Houghton 17-9137

  Elsie Singmaster has written a popular life of Luther as a
  contribution to the literature of the four hundredth anniversary of
  the reformation. She says, “The volume contains no original material,
  but is intended to serve as an introduction to the longer, richer, and
  more scholarly records of a great life which abound and to the noble
  writings of the reformer himself.” Contents: Youth; Monk, teacher and
  preacher; The ninety-five theses and their effect; The primary works
  of the reformation and the diet of Worms; At the Wartburg and back in
  Wittenberg; Marriage and family life; The growing church; Last years
  and death.

  “The author has used especially the work of Doctor H. E. Jacobs,
  Preserved Smith, and Heinrich Böhmer (p. 398) and quotes often from
  Luther’s own works.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:400 Je ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 300w

       — =Cath World= 105:258 My ‘17 500w

       + =Cleveland= p83 Je ‘17 60w

  “Tho one could wish made more vivid the daily life of the plain folk
  of whom Luther was one, yet here is a swift, clear account of the
  causes of the great struggle, of the events of Luther’s life and his
  lovable personality, all to be read almost at a sitting.”

       + =Ind= 90:34 Ap 2 ‘17 70w

  “The familiar tale is told with intelligence and in a simple and
  straight-forward fashion.”

       + =Nation= 105:515 N 8 ‘17 50w

  “Miss Singmaster is herself the daughter of a Lutheran clergyman, and
  is an accurate student of the literature of her subject.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:667 Je ‘17 90w

  “The book should be useful to those who have neither the time nor
  inclination to peruse the larger and heavier accounts of the German
  reformer’s career. It is really an excellent digest of them.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 120w


=SIZER, JAMES PEYTON.= Commercialization of leisure. (Present day
problems ser.) *75c Badger, R: G. 790 17-11342

  “This little essay calls attention to a serious problem in modern
  life,—serious despite its leisurely aspect. It brings forth the
  important consideration that amusement and recreation are among the
  prominent and essential affairs of men. Amusement has become a huge
  business. Leisure is in itself a value approaching the highest good. A
  successful democracy must make leisure possible for the largest
  numbers. It must provide ways of using leisure which will advance as
  well as content human beings. The statement made by Mr Sizer shows how
  far from such a condition the actual relation stands.”—Dial

         =Cleveland= p115 S ‘17 20w

  “The organization of leisure and recreation by the community is ably
  pointed out as one of the essential duties of the true democratic
  state.”

       + =Dial= 63:461 N 8 ‘17 140w

  “Mr J. P. Sizer wastes much fire on that perennial target, the
  Puritan, on the Y. M. C. A. and on other activities, but his
  description of present conditions and plans for improvement are sane
  and inspiring.”

     + — =Ind= 91:137 Jl 28 ‘17 40w


=SKINNER, ADA MARIA, and SKINNER, ELEANOR LOUISE=, comps. Topaz story
book. (Jewel ser.) il *$1.50 Duffield 17-24878

  Into this book have been gathered stories and legends of autumn,
  Hallowe’en and Thanksgiving. Indian myths, folktales from other lands,
  and modern stories and poems are included. The contents are arranged
  under the following headings: Autumn stories and legends; Among the
  trees; Woodland animals; Harvest fields; Cheerful chirpers; All
  Hallowe’en; A harvest of Thanksgiving stories. The frontispiece is by
  Maxfield Parrish.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:174 F ‘18

  “An excellent compilation. ... There is plenty of wholesome fare in it
  for both tots and shavers, and nothing, or next to nothing, of the
  artificial ‘dope’ too frequently offered as a substitute and
  successfully passed off in the confusion of the market-place,—as, for
  instance, in too much of the material in ‘John Martin’s annual,’ and
  in all elaborate commercial juvenilism, under whatever name.” J:
  Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:494 D ‘17 80w

       + =Lit D= 55:57 D 8 ‘17 70w

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ja 5 ‘18 50w


=SKINNER, CONSTANCE LINDSAY.= “Good-morning, Rosamond!” il *$1.35 (1½c)
Doubleday 17-11791

  Rosamond, the very young widow of an elderly and wealthy collector of
  antiques, was held in subjection by the two elderly servants who
  revered their master’s memory and who insisted that she do the same.
  On the morning of the day that Jemima and Amanda were called to their
  mother’s bedside, their mistress flew to her room, put on her gayest
  gown, dropped a courtesy before her reflection in the glass and said
  “Good-morning, Rosamond.” She was determined that this was to be her
  one wonderful day, and she was youthful enough to hope that her day
  might bring a fairy prince, altho where he was to come from in staid
  and settled Roseborough, was an unanswerable question. But strange
  things, of which the arrival of the desired young man was not the
  least surprising, were to happen during the twenty-four hours of
  Rosamond’s day.

  “A sparkling, lightsome, exciting and charmingly written story.” E.
  Gates

       + =Books and Authors= Je ‘17 400w

  “Perhaps the book may be described, with reservations and
  qualifications, as a Nova Scotian ‘Cranford.’ ... The setting is
  designedly, perseveringly idyllic, but the action tends to lapse from
  comedy to melodramatic farce. ... An independent system of
  illustrations by Thomas Fogarty will challenge attention.”

         =Dial= 62:443 My 17 ‘17 200w

  “The story is told with consummate literary art. It is joyous and
  buoyant, scintillant and sarcastic, cynical and sympathetic.”

       + =Evening Ledger= [Philadelphia] My 5 ‘17 400w

  “Constance Skinner, the poet of Indian life, has written a farce
  comedy in novel form.”

         =Ind= 90:594 Je 30 ‘17 60w

  “It is just a bit too preposterous to be as amusing as it might easily
  have been. It has been dramatized and, we fancy, is better as a play
  than a novel.”

         =N Y Times= 22:183 My 6 ‘17 150w

  “Miss Skinner tells a pleasing story of no importance, in the course
  of which she mildly satirizes life in a small community. The work is
  artificial and forced in places, but the dialog is bright and
  skilful.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 230w


=SKINNIDER, MARGARET.= Doing my bit for Ireland. il *$1 Century 941.5
17-16337

  A spirited, frankly partizan account of the Dublin insurrection of
  1916, by a school-teacher who took an active part in the rising, was
  wounded, but escaped imprisonment, and came, some months later, to
  America. An appendix of nearly fifty pages gives the street songs in
  vogue in Dublin at the time of the insurrection.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:21 O ‘17

  “One of the chief virtues of Miss Skinnider’s simple recital is that
  it makes the Irish revolutionists live for us, especially their
  executed leaders, so that the Irish question presents itself as an
  essentially human problem, and the rights of small nations changes
  from a battle cry to a demand for constructive thought.”

       + =Dial= 63:218 S 13 ‘17 250w

  “A courageous, romantic, naïve story.”

       + =Ind= 92:260 N 3 ‘17 70w

  “A striking contribution not only to an understanding of the spirit
  which led to the Easter rebellion, but, since the writer is
  confessedly a suffragette, we think also to the strange and baffling
  spirit of the militant women. Neither so full nor so striking as other
  narratives lately published. The book is largely about the authoress
  herself, and its particular value lies in the glimpse it affords of
  the character of herself and her comrades in the cause. ... More than
  once she indicates that the stories of Belgian atrocities pale beside
  the work of the British during the terrible fortnight, but the
  examples afforded are not convincing.”

     + — =Nation= 105:150 Ag 9 ‘17 850w

  “The little volume is intensely readable and well calculated to
  beguile an idle hour, though it hardly can be regarded as an
  authoritative narrative, the writer having, apparently, an overload of
  imagination and a rather scant supply of reasoning power.” Joshua
  Wanhope

     – + =N Y Call= p14 Jl 1 ‘17 600w

       + =N Y Times= 22:262 Jl 15 ‘17 130w


=SKRINE, JOHN HUNTLEY.= Survival of Jesus. *$2 Doran 232 17-14227

  “In the twenty-six chapters of this book the author discusses the
  nature of the man Christ Jesus, the atonement, and the theology of the
  future. Regarding telepathy, or thought-transference, as a fact, a
  vera causa, he considers its bearing upon religion, and puts forward a
  hypothesis of faith-transference or ‘faith-conference.’ Briefly, this
  hypothesis is that ‘Jesus in the days of His flesh made atonement for
  men, His contemporaries, by the impartment to them of the life unto
  God through the medium of a telepathy of spirit.’” (Ath) The author is
  a clergyman of the Church of England.

         =Ath= p407 Ag ‘17 100w

  “The book is beautiful to those who think they understand it, vague to
  others, and charming in a way to most.”

     + – =Bib World= 50:256 O ‘17 130w

  “The author of this striking book has done a brave thing, and many who
  may not be able to follow his guidance will be grateful for his
  boldness.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p292 Je 21 ‘17 1150w


=SLADEN, DOUGLAS BROOKE WHEELTON.= Douglas romance. *$1.35 Brentano’s
(Eng ed 16-19956)

  “An historical novel of the present day, ‘The Douglas romance,’
  derives its fantastic plot and its kaleidoscopic multitude of cleverly
  presented characters, men and women of unusual and interesting types,
  from those still fertile fields of romance, the theatrical world and
  the European war. It tells of the fortunes of the last heirs of the
  Scottish earldom of Douglas, the ultramodern descendants of the Black
  Douglas of ballad fame. ... The war is presented through the points of
  view of the heroine’s two lovers; one a hero of the trenches, the
  other the leader of a spectacular attack on a German stronghold. The
  vivid picture of London in war-time is not the least interesting part
  of the story.”—Boston Transcript

  “Many aspects of theatrical life are shown, perhaps an unnecessary
  number of unpleasant ones. However, here as elsewhere throughout the
  book we are disposed to forgive much for the sake of the throng of
  characters of many types and classes.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 21 ‘16 270w

  “The tale, from first to last, although lacking in subtle distinctions
  and delicacies, is interesting.”

     + — =N Y Times= 21:537 D 3 ‘16 260w

  “Partly historical and partly romantic, with a dash of triviality. ...
  In the concluding chapters the author interjects some thrilling war
  pictures and scenes of heroism on the battlefield which saves the
  story from tedium.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p19 Mr 25 ‘17 270w


=SLOCUM, STEPHEN ELMER.= Elements of hydraulics. 2d ed rev and enl il
*$2.50 McGraw 621.2 17-1800

  “In the second edition the author has revised his text and added much
  of value. In Part 1, ‘Pressure of water,’ is added a chapter on
  strength of pipes under internal pressure. ... In the second part,
  ‘Flow of water,’ the author has revised considerably the chapter
  dealing with weirs. ... The chapter on the influence of bends and
  elbows on the flow has also been rewritten and much new matter
  added. ... The older chapter on backwater has been eliminated entirely
  and new matter substituted. ... The chapter on turbines and their
  appurtenances was unusually good in the first edition, but the author
  has nevertheless revised it and added much new matter. The paragraphs
  on water hammer have been rewritten and a chapter on surge tanks
  added. As in the former edition, the last pages are in the form of an
  appendix containing tabulated hydraulic data. Two new tables have been
  added, one on the discharge from wood-stave pipe and the other on
  submerged weir coefficients, so that there are now 22 tables covering
  35 pages.”—Engin Rec

  “The appearance of Professor Slocum’s second edition in a few months
  after the appearance of the first edition seems to indicate the
  success of his idea, which was to break away from academic
  presentations of pure theory in order to secure the interest of the
  student and to visualize the abstractions that once were too
  exclusively dealt with.”

       + =Engin N= 77:435 Mr 15 ‘17 160w

  Reviewed by A. G. Hillberg

       + =Engin Rec= 75:234 F 10 ‘17 670w


=SLOSSON, EDWIN EMERY.= Six major prophets. il *$1.50 Little 920
17-13229

  A companion volume to “Major prophets of to-day.” “Whoever dies
  without recognizing the prophet of his time dies the death of a
  pagan,” says a Mohammedan proverb. To escape this fate, Mr Slosson
  selected the twelve men of his own time to whom the title of prophet
  seemed most aptly to apply. He has visited and interviewed each of
  them and made a study of their works. The results are set forth in
  these two volumes for the benefit of others. The six men of the second
  volume are, George Bernard Shaw, H. G. Wells, G. K. Chesterton, F. C.
  S. Schiller, John Dewey and Rudolf Eucken. The original articles,
  which appeared in the Independent, have been amplified for book
  publication.

  “Informal, good for study clubs. Annotated lists of suggested books.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:400 Je ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 2 ‘17 1250w

         =Boston Transcript= p7 My 16 ‘17 650w

       + =Ind= 91:71 Jl 14 ‘17 270w

  “Probably the essay on Eucken would have been different in tone had it
  been written today. Mr Slosson has preferred to let it stand as he
  originally wrote it for the Independent, a sort of ante-bellum view of
  German philosophy. If the present book is sometimes less pungent in
  style than Mr Slosson’s earlier expositions, he has still accomplished
  his purpose. He can be informative without even skirting dulness.”

       + =New Repub= 11:116 My 26 ‘17 400w

  “To a marked degree he succeeds in writing interestingly for those
  readers who have no need to be informed. His intention, he points out,
  is exposition rather than criticism. But much of very keen and
  readable criticism his book does contain.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:355 S 23 ‘17 1400w

  “Sparkling and ingratiating essays. Each discussion is made more
  illuminating by a brief bibliographic commentary.” Algernon Tassin

       + =Pub W= 91:1321 Ap 21 ‘17 600w

       + =R of Rs= 56:104 Jl ‘17 120w


=SLOSSON, PRESTON WILLIAM.= Decline of the Chartist movement. (Columbia
univ. studies in history, economics and public law) pa *$2 Longmans
342.4 16-25227

  “Mr Slosson’s title, ‘The decline of the Chartist movement,’ does not
  quite adequately describe his book. Such a title suggests a study of
  the movement only from the failure of the great petition of 1848. Mr
  Slosson’s best work, it is true, is of the years that followed the
  fiasco of the Kennington Common mass-meeting of 1848. But his story of
  the movement as a whole is singularly complete and quite
  comprehensive. ... Clearness both of statement and of reasoning are
  also obvious when Mr Slosson is discussing to what extent greatly
  improved industrial conditions after 1848 accounted for the
  disappearance of the Chartist movement, and again when he is examining
  the advantages, direct and indirect, that accrued to the wage-earning
  classes of England in the last half of the nineteenth century from the
  Chartist agitation of 1837-1854.”—Am Hist R

  “Dr Slosson writes with a breadth of view and grasp not always found
  in doctoral theses.” H. E. Mills

       + =Am Econ R= 7:606 S ‘17 380w

  “If there were no other book on Chartism in existence, Mr Slosson’s
  study would serve most students of English political movements of the
  nineteenth century. It certainly would serve to the full those
  students who are already familiar with industrial and social
  conditions in England from the American revolution to the first decade
  of Queen Victoria’s reign. Clearness of presentation is the
  characteristic of Mr Slosson’s work.” E: Porritt

       + =Am Hist R= 22:651 Ap ‘17 310w

  “Particularly of value as regards the treatment of the causes which
  led to the decline of the movement, and for its examination of some of
  the distinctly beneficent results that indirectly accrued to the
  working classes in England from a movement that many students of
  English history are inclined to regard as a complete failure. If it
  had stood alone—if it had not been accompanied by Mr Rosenblatt’s
  book, and Mr Faulkner’s study of the attitude of the churches toward
  Chartism and also of the attitude of the Chartists towards the
  Established church—Mr Slosson’s well-written and admirably arranged
  monograph would have filled the hiatus in the literature of political
  movements in England in the nineteenth century that had existed for
  nearly sixty years.” E: Porritt

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:340 My ‘17 650w

  “Mr Slosson’s history of Chartism will rank with the best
  contributions of American scholars to the literature of English
  political movement in the nineteenth century, and also with many of
  the best contributions to this literature from the pens of English
  historians.” E: Porritt

       + =Ind= 89:232 F 5 ‘17 200w

  “The relation of the movement to industrial depression is analyzed
  ably and in detail by both Mr Rosenblatt and Mr Slosson. This analysis
  is by far the most satisfactory feature of their works.”

         =J Pol Econ= 25:635 Je ‘17 190w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 140w

  “On the whole, great accuracy and most scrupulous references to the
  sources mark all three volumes.” I. C. Hannah

       + =Survey= 38:288 Je 30 ‘17 250w


=SMART, WILLIAM.= Second thoughts of an economist; with a biographical
sketch by T: Jones. *$1.40 Macmillan 330 16-15824

  “In this little book, which marks the close of his most active and
  productive career, Professor Smart has undertaken a review of the
  salient facts of economic life as they appear when seen by the light
  of a warm enthusiasm for worthwhile living against the background of
  his more formal economics. He has returned to certain Ruskinian
  questionings and disparagings of industrialism and treats of these
  things with a freedom which he apparently felt one cannot exercise
  when one is preoccupied with being an economist. ... The book is, in
  fact, his philosophy of economic responsibility.”—J Pol Econ

  “While noble in its tone aspiration, charming in its statement, and
  sound enough so far as it goes, it must be said that the book does not
  add to its author’s reputation.” H. E. Mills

       + =Am Econ R= 6:876 D ‘16 750w

       + =Ath= p318 Jl ‘16 1450w

  “There is little in the book which was not pretty definitely present
  in his previous volumes. Its special interest consists in that it
  enables one to appreciate the influence of certain assumptions which
  controlled his thinking. ... The memoir seems to me exactly suitable
  and in place. All former students of Professor Smart will be grateful
  to Mr Jones for so admirable a sketch of one who was so kindly and so
  fascinating a man and probably also one of the very greatest teachers
  of economics the country ever produced.” M. W. Robieson

         =Int J Ethics= 27:244 Ja ‘17 1650w

  “Precisely because of this breadth of view, the book seems admirably
  adapted to introduce the subject of economics to beginners. Economic
  doctrines appear here vividly as very real things. Advanced readers
  will find its tone genially lucid rather than keenly penetrating, and
  humanitarian rather than iconoclastic.” J. M. Clark

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:402 Ap ‘17 900w

         =Pratt= p8 Jl ‘17

         =Sat R= 122:277 S 16 ‘16 450w

       + =Spec= 117:190 Ag 12 ‘16 430w

 *     + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p279 Je 15 ‘16 900w


=SMIDOVICH, VIKENTII VIKENT’EVICH (VIKENTY VERESÁEV, pseud.).= In the
war; memoirs; tr. by Leo Wiener. (Slavic translations) *$2 (1c)
Kennerley 947 17-12165

  An account of the Russo-Japanese war by a Russian surgeon who
  accompanied the troops. The narrative opens with the announcement of
  war, and is carried on in the following chapters: On the way; In
  Mukden; The battle of Sha-ho; The great stand: October to November;
  The great stand: December to February; The Mukden engagement; On the
  Mandarin road; Wandering; In expectation of peace; Peace; Home again.
  The translator associates the author’s name with that of Vereshchágin
  as a depicter of the grimness of warfare, calling the book, “the most
  complete analysis of the ingloriousness of war yet obtained.”

  “It is a revolting picture from first to last, with such a morbid
  insistence upon the known cruelties and the heedlessness to human
  suffering that one feels compelled to doubt, at times, the motive of
  the author. ... The judicious reader will reserve the right to
  question not only the author’s motive in some of the cases but also
  the truth of some of the happenings to which he gives credence.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 25 ‘17 280w

  “A vivid, artistically proportioned account written in the
  characteristically Russian spirit of patience and understanding. ‘No
  one but a Russian could have presented such a calm, dispassionate and
  utterly damning record of graft, incompetence and lack of morale. The
  book will serve to make the over-optimistic realize the magnitude of
  Russia’s problem in building up a democracy.’”

       + =Cleveland= p82 Je ‘17 80w

         =Ind= 91:77 Jl 14 ‘17 50w

  “Veresaev is well known as the author of the ‘Memoirs of a physician’
  and of many stories and essays. A realist of Tolstoy’s school, he
  succeeds in drawing gripping pictures in a sincere and reserved
  manner. As a physician, Veresaev had a rather limited field of
  observation, but even through his narrow prism he was able to behold
  an appalling picture of human masses being abused, neglected,
  demoralized, and senselessly slaughtered, through the whim,
  carelessness, greed, and ignorance of their superiors.”

       + =Nation= 105:227 Ag 30 ‘17 320w

  “What war can do to even the greatest of men is shown here in a
  realism which would be merely revolting if it were not for the note of
  bitterness and irony that gives an undercurrent of clear criticism to
  the sluggish and sickening stream of war’s horror.”

       + =New Repub= 10:sup20 Ap 21 ‘17 350w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:77 My ‘17


=SMITH, ALICE RAVENEL HUGER, and SMITH, DANIEL ELLIOTT HUGER.= Dwelling
houses of Charleston, South Carolina. il *$6 Lippincott 975.7 17-29203

  “This book is the story of Charleston told in pictures of its houses
  and streets and in word-sketches of the interesting, historical, and
  personal incidents associated with them. In order to convey the
  quality of the place as a whole, the authors selected those houses
  which best showed the distinctive evolution of architecture in
  Charleston, with all its details in the way of fireplaces, paneling,
  doorways, and furniture. In so doing they have called up a vivid
  picture of old Charleston life, its history, and the ways of its
  people generations ago. There are, in all, 128 illustrations from
  drawings by Alice R. Huger Smith, from photographs, and from
  architectural drawings of Albert Simons.”—Lit D

  “The book has evidently been compiled with care, it contains drawings
  and documents of great interest, yet somehow it conveys a sense of
  opportunities unfulfilled, of curiosities unrewarded. This is because
  it is not so intelligent and authoritative architecturally as it is
  historically.”

     + — =Dial= 63:590 D 6 ‘17 650w

         =Lit D= 55:51 D 8 ‘17 130w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:182 D ‘17 50w

  “The very beautiful book about ‘The dwelling houses of Charleston’
  carries between its covers a real treasure of interest, historical,
  biographical, and architectural.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:482 N 18 ‘17 80w

       + =Outlook= 117:575 D 5 ‘17 120w

  “After all it is to architects and house lovers that his book will
  make its strongest appeal.” Ruth Stanley-Brown

       + =Pub W= 92:1386 O 20 ‘17 590w

       + =R of Rs= 57:103 Ja ‘18 120w


=SMITH, MRS BERTHA (WHITRIDGE).= Only a dog. il *$1 (10c) Dutton 940.91
17-5815

  “Only a dog” is a little story of the war. The Irish terrier, who
  tells his own story, had had a happy home life with a French family
  until the Germans came. He escaped the fate that overtook his master’s
  family and found refuge with one of the British regiments. A kindly
  Tommy became his new master and to him the dog remains faithful even
  after death. A note says that the story is based on a true incident.
  The proceeds from the sale of the book are to be devoted to relief
  work.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ap 14 ‘17 130w

       + =Cath World= 105:126 Ap ‘17 110w

  “‘Only a dog,’ in its tenderness and its simplicity, is exquisite.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:80 Mr 4 ‘17 400w

  “By a Montreal writer.”

         =Ontario Library Review= 1:121 My ‘17 90w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 20 ‘17 180w


=SMITH, EDGAR FAHS.= Life of Robert Hare, an American chemist
(1781-1858). il *$5 (3c) Lippincott 17-18697

  Robert Hare, inventor of the calorimotor and the oxyhydrogen blowpipe,
  who, “for half a century was considered an unimpeachable authority in
  chemical research” (Boston Transcript) was born in Philadelphia in
  1781, and from 1818-1847 was professor of chemistry in the medical
  department of the University of Pennsylvania. This life is written by
  Provost Smith of the University of Pennsylvania, himself a chemist,
  for students of chemistry. The story is “told largely by Hare himself
  in a series of unpublished letters, and in other documents which were
  practically buried in forgotten journals and pamphlets.” (Preface) The
  frontispiece is a colored reproduction of the oil portrait of Hare in
  the University of Pennsylvania. There are four other illustrations.

  Reviewed by W. D. Bancroft

       + =Am Hist R= 23:437 Ja ‘18 410w

  “Through what the author terms the second period of Hare’s activity
  (1818-1847), the book is extremely technical, requiring advanced
  chemical knowledge for its complete comprehension.” H. S. K.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 700w

         =R of Rs= 56:440 O ‘17 60w


=SMITH, ELVA SOPHRONIA=, comp. Mystery tales for boys and girls. il
*$1.50 Lothrop 808.8 17-23758

  Miss Smith of the Carnegie library of Pittsburgh has selected a number
  of the stories and poems of mystery that are suitable for older boys
  and girls. They are stories of “ghosts and haunted houses, hidden
  treasure and strange enchantment.” It is suggested that librarians and
  teachers will find the collection useful in meeting the demand for
  Hallowe’en stories. Among the selections are Poe’s “Gold-bug,” Lord
  Macaulay’s “Last buccaneer,” Keats’ “La belle dame sans merci,”
  Goethe’s “Erl-king,” Irving’s “The haunted house,” Scott’s “Alice
  Brand,” Coleridge’s “Ancient mariner” and Hawthorne’s “Gray champion.”
  Among more recent selections are a story by Selma Lagerlöf and a poem
  by Alfred Noyes.

  “Good for Hallowe’en, an excellent collection for about the eighth
  grade.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:137 Ja ‘18

  Reviewed by J: Walcott

         =Bookm= 46:499 D ‘17 150w

  “A combination of thrills and good literature.”

       + =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 40w

       + =N Y Times= 22:441 O 28 ‘17 100w

  “The selections are admirable, and boys and girls of a suitable age
  will find the book a most convenient means of acquainting themselves
  with some of the best imaginative writing in the English language.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 100w


=SMITH, EPHRAIM KIRBY.= To Mexico with Scott; letters of Captain E.
Kirby Smith to his wife; ed. by Emma Jerome Blackwood; with an introd.
by R. M. Johnston. il *$1.25 Harvard univ. press 17-22326

  “In the war between the United States and Mexico (1845-1847), which
  followed on the annexation to the States of Texas and the dispute with
  Mexico as to the boundary of the new state, Captain Kirby Smith fought
  first under General Taylor and then under General Scott. His
  letters ... provide a close chronicle of events, with here and there a
  note on the habits of the people or the scenery.”—The Times [London]
  Lit Sup

  “A valuable addition to the first-hand literature of the Mexican war.
  The reader of these, as of all other such documents, must ask himself
  here and there whether the writer was in a position to know the truth
  of what he believed and said, and by doing so will avoid accepting
  some errors.” J. H. Smith

       + =Am Hist R= 23:438 Ja ‘18 730w

  “Good letters are the best of reading, and Captain Smith had the gift
  of letter writing. Now and then one gets a glimpse into the very
  depths of the soul of the man. Mr Johnston’s introduction is a
  valuable contribution to the book.” F. W. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 D 1 ‘17 460w

       + =Dial= 64:31 Ja 3 ‘18 210w

  “The ‘Letters of Capt. Smith’ are full of interest and form an
  important sidelight of history. But they are unfortunate in their
  editor who has not proved himself a big enough man to keep his very
  questionable political ideas out of an historical work.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p8 S 12 ‘17 470w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p494 O 11 ‘17 80w


=SMITH, FRANK WEBSTER.= High school; with an introd. by J: Calvin Hanna.
*$2 Sturgis & Walton 370.9 17-287

  Believing that the high school is “the determining factor in American
  school life,” Mr Smith attempts to study the origins and tendencies of
  secondary education. “In the superintendence of public schools, in
  teaching and supervision in high school and academy, in the training
  of high school teachers in normal school and university department of
  education, and in supervision of and participation in the training of
  high school graduates for teaching in elementary schools, he has had
  opportunity to observe the work of the high school from various
  angles.” (Author’s preface) The first 292 pages cover the period from
  primitive times to the nineteenth century, including a chapter on
  “Jesus, teacher—new principles of education.” Two chapters are then
  given to the high school in the nineteenth century, one to the
  development of secondary education in the United States, and one to a
  review of the evolution of secondary education from different view
  points. The last three chapters treat of the high school of the
  twentieth century. A graphic summary is inserted just before the
  nine-page bibliography.

  “The relation between the educational institution and the economic and
  social conditions is emphasized consistently, and there is brought
  together a wealth of illustrative material.”

       + =Ind= 90:253 My 5 ‘17 160w

       + =N Y Times= 22:297 Ag 12 ‘17 90w


=SMITH, SIR FREDERICK EDWIN.= Destruction of merchant ships under
international law. *$1.75 Dutton 341.3 (Eng ed 17-17631)

  “The British Attorney-General presents the perplexing question of
  merchant ships’ status in war time. He first discusses enemy
  merchantmen, and goes into the question of visit and search, seizure
  and destruction, examining the various points in the light of former
  decisions on similar cases. He then considers neutral merchantmen, and
  their position under the customary law. He bases his findings on the
  practice that obtained in the Russo-Japanese war, and was later
  modified by the discussion at the Second Hague conference, and the
  Declaration of London.”—Cath World

  “Does much to clarify this very difficult problem, and gives a
  comprehensive, trustworthy basis for the many decisions that must be
  made at the close of the war.”

       + =Cath World= 106:112 O ‘17 130w

  “In days when enemy ships are being fired upon in neutral waters, when
  new measures of naval warfare interfering with neutral rights are
  assumed to be legal in spite of unquestionable and unanimous authority
  directly to the contrary, when the rights of neutrals are entirely
  disregarded in the attempt of belligerents to exercise full military
  power, a book setting forth what was international law on one phase of
  belligerent operation, without considering the complications of the
  whole situation, is not very valuable; and when it is written by a man
  of the brilliance and standing of Sir Frederick Smith, one is inclined
  to regret the fact that more originality and vigor are not in
  evidence.”

     – + =Nation= 105:222 Ag 30 ‘17 900w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:836 D ‘17 40w

  “It is well that there should be available such a sober and
  well-reasoned remembrancer of German sea crime as this little book,
  which the Attorney-General states is prepared largely from the notes
  of Dr Coleman Phillipson, who has already written admirably of the
  problems of international law arising out of modern warfare. ... There
  is no page which cannot be understood by the lay reader. ... It
  reduces a mass of international law almost to syllogistic form in
  language that is wholly free from pedantry and ambiguity.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p185 Ap 19 ‘17 570w


=SMITH, GERALD BIRNEY=, ed. Guide to the study of the Christian
religion. *$3 Univ. of Chicago press 207 16-24312

  “A dozen scholars, all excellent authorities in their respective
  fields, have joined in producing this ‘Guide’ under the general
  editorship of Professor G. B. Smith of the University of Chicago.
  Their primary purpose has been, to help students to understand the
  meaning of the various aspects of education for the Christian
  ministry. They have also wished to help pastors to keep in sympathetic
  touch with the latest scholarship. But so largely has the Christian
  religion been shaped by its history, so largely must the explanation
  of its various features rest on historical study, that nearly
  two-thirds of the book is historical in character.” (Am Hist R) Among
  the contributors are Shailer Mathews, J. M. P. Smith, E. D. Burton, S.
  J. Case, F. A. Christie, and George Cross.

  “May well be invaluable to many an historical professor or
  student. ... The statements are clear, comprehensive, and judicious.
  The successive essays are kept remarkably uniform in method and in
  texture. Frequent brief bibliographies at the end of sections—perhaps
  two hundred of them—describe the books most useful to readers of the
  classes for whom the manual is designed. The book is well conceived
  and well executed.”

       + =Am Hist R= 22:694 Ap ‘17 280w

  “‘A remarkably comprehensive work, surveying almost the entire field
  of the material of the curriculum of the theological seminary and
  showing the present-day general situation in theological education.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:286 Ap ‘17 (Reprinted from =Religious Education=
         12:65 F ‘17)

  “Of the thirteen authors ten of them are connected with the University
  of Chicago.”

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 27 ‘17 450w


=SMITH, GRAFTON ELLIOT, and PEAR, TOM HATHERLEY.= Shell shock and its
lessons. (Manchester univ. publications) *$1 Longmans 17-25982

  “This brief book is described by the authors as a ‘simple
  non-technical exposition of the ascertained facts of that malady, or
  complex of maladies, for which we have adopted the official
  designation “Shell-shock.”’ ... The authors rely on data which came
  from France, Russia, and Germany, as well as our own army, and which
  fortify their own experiences and conclusions. They end with a chapter
  on the need for reform of the British attitude towards the treatment
  of mental disorder.”—Sat R

  “Suggests methods for the treatment not only of this condition but of
  similar nervous conditions in time of peace. ... ‘The civilian should
  be offered the facilities for cure which have proved such a blessing
  to the war-stricken soldier.’”

         =Nation= 105:276 S 6 ‘17 330w

  “It would have been more accurate, we think, to have called it
  ‘war-shock,’ for the conditions described have been witnessed in cases
  that have not been to the front. The reviewer is scarcely in agreement
  with the authors, who adopt so wholeheartedly the exclusively
  emotional origin of shell-shock as against the physical origin. That
  shell-shock is entirely of psychic origin and can be overcome by
  psycho-therapeutics is too sweeping a statement.” Robert
  Armstrong-Jones

     + — =Nature= 100:1 S 6 ‘17 2050w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:771 N ‘17 40w

  “Though the book inevitably involves some knowledge of psychology, it
  is clearly written, and popular enough to refer to Sherlock Holmes,
  Bernard Shaw, and the author of ‘Erewhon,’ ... The various means of
  treatment are lucidly described, and the moral objections to
  psychological analysis are fairly considered. The corrections
  throughout the book of the casual views and suppositions of the public
  on mental cases of difficulty deserve a wide circulation.”

       + =Sat R= 124:70 Jl 28 ‘17 300w

         =Spec= 118:40 Jl 14 ‘17 130w

  “The authors do not agree with Dr Eder (of the Malta hospitals) and
  the extreme school of the psycho-analysts. Nor do they agree with the
  ‘materialistic’ school. They advocate the use of a common-sense
  combination of methods, and especially of persuasion by the physician
  and suggestion when the patient is in the waking state. Especially do
  they advocate a better education of the physician in psychology. The
  latter part of the book is devoted to this advocacy and to an
  indictment of our asylum system. The book is exceedingly
  interesting—and, best of all, optimistic. It is well written and quite
  untechnical.”

   + + — =Spec= 119:218 S 1 ‘17 1400w

  Reviewed by Gertrude Seymour

         =Survey= 39:170 N 17 ‘17 750w

  “What the authors press for is clinics attached to general hospitals
  and to medical schools, to which patients in the early stages of
  mental disturbance may go without legal formalities and free from the
  stigma attached to an asylum. The Psychopathic hospital at Boston,
  Mass., and other similar institutions in the United States and
  elsewhere are quoted as examples to be followed.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p299 Je 21 ‘17 180w


=SMITH, HARRY BRADLEY.= Establishing industrial schools; with an introd.
by C: A. Prosser. (Riverside educational monographs) *60c Houghton
371.42 16-20752

  “Concrete and practical methods of determining what sort of industrial
  and trade schools are needed in our large industrial communities are
  considered by Harry Bradley Smith, director of industrial education in
  the New York state college for teachers. ... While the greater part of
  the work is devoted to the problems of the survey for vocational
  education, the author with commendable foresight has included in
  addition a closing chapter full of information and suggestions as to
  the steps to be taken and the best ways of getting such things as a
  proper course of study, advisory committees and trade
  agreements.”—Springf’d Republican

         =A L A Bkl= 13:386 Je ‘17

  “Contrives to be concise without being obscure, and matter-of-fact
  without being dry-as-dust.”

       + =Nation= 105:129 Ag 2 ‘17 230w

  “The monograph is really a primer full of valuable information for any
  person interested in the new and difficult problem of getting the
  right kind of vocational education started in a community.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 29 ‘17 140w


=SMITH, JAMES HALDANE.= Economic moralism. il *$1.75 Macmillan 330
17-14559

  “This is an ‘essay on constructive economics’ which may interest those
  who concern themselves with theoretical or economic utopias. ‘Economic
  moralism’ is equally opposed to capitalism and to socialism. It
  demands on one hand that all individuals shall be assured equal
  opportunity by the state—the organized people—owning and working the
  land and industries, and asserts that rent, interest, and profit are
  usury and have no ethical justification; and, on the other hand, it
  vigorously opposes the socialist principle of free supply of the wants
  of the individual at the public expense. The ‘moralist’ principle is
  that of collecting from each individual the cost of what is actually
  supplied to him.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

  Reviewed by E. L. Earp

         =Am J Soc= 23:414 N ‘17 500w

  “If all his book had been as interesting to us as is this chapter [on
  interest] we should have been hard put to it to find a limit to our
  notice. ... In his second part he outlines plans for initiating and
  carrying out what he terms ‘economic moralism.’ We find ourselves so
  little in sympathy with his idea of coercive action by the state that
  we admit difficulty in judging his proposals on their intrinsic
  merits.”

         =Ath= p272 Je ‘16 1100w

  “The book is characteristic of the present tendency of economic
  theory. It contains many original contributions in thought and is
  interesting and suggestive throughout.” R. W.

         =Boston Transcript= p7 My 2 ‘17 600w

  “No references are given for any passages quoted: and much later and
  better work both in ethics and in economics is hardly given the place
  one would expect. For surely Herbert Spencer is easily shown to be
  deficient, without the principles of ethics being more clear on that
  account. And a far graver deficiency in Mr Smith’s book is that the
  principles of ethics are neither stated nor proved.” C. D. Burns

       — =Int J Ethics= 27:249 Ja ‘17 350w

  “On the whole, the work is ingenious as well as serious, and will
  prove interesting and stimulating to anyone interested in the
  constructive literature of extreme radicalism. Many of the assumptions
  in regard to human nature, its capacities and adaptabilities, and the
  like, are of the usual socialistic type and will appeal to
  nonsocialists as unwarrantable in the absence of more proof than is
  offered.” F. H. Knight

     + — =J Pol Econ= 26:99 Ja ‘18 600w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:106 Jl ‘16

  “It is very creditable of him to think so hard; but he cannot make
  economic moralism intelligible.”

       — =Sat R= 122:277 S 16 ‘16 500w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p226 My 11 ‘16 180w


=SMITH, JOHN TALBOT.= Parish theatre; a brief account of its rise, its
present condition, and its prospects. *$1 Longmans 792 17-30252

  A wide chasm exists between the damning of the theatre by Christians
  in 1850 and the staging of plays by church folk which led up to the
  branch of the amateur drama known as the parish theatre. The spanning
  of that chasm has been a part of the evolution that has developed a
  social conscience. In this small volume we are told specifically of
  the growth of the parish theatre, its aims and service. The parish
  play demands a parish hall, a pastor manager, or a substitute, the
  right kind of play and an audience. The institution to be built up
  must work “quietly and gaily in the shadow of the church towards the
  redemption of an art which commerce enslaves for the sake of profit,
  and the Puritan leaves in the gutter for the sake of righteousness!” A
  list of one hundred plays suitable for this kind of production is
  given.

  “We predict a heavy demand for this practical and valuable little
  book. For a good many years Father Smith has been the foremost
  Catholic spokesman for the drama in America.”

       + =Cath World= 106:550 Ja ‘18 360w


=SMITH, JOHN THOMAS.= Nollekens and his times, and memoirs of
contemporary artists from the time of Roubiliac, Hogarth and Reynolds to
that of Fuseli, Flaxman and Blake. 2v il *$7.50 Lane 709.42 16-23956

  Joseph Nollekens was a portrait-sculptor of the eighteenth century. He
  was born in 1737 and died in 1823. His biography written by his
  contemporary, John Thomas Smith, keeper of prints and drawings in the
  British museum, was published in 1828. Wilfred Whitten, who now edits
  the work, calls it “a great lucky-bag of detail for students of London
  topography and of the practice of the arts in London from Hogarth to
  Blake.” The author, he says, “is essentially a gossip.” His idea of
  literary form “is to let one thing lead to another, with unlimited
  licence to revert, to anticipate, and to go off at a tangent.”
  Eighty-five illustrations add to the interest of the two volumes.

  “Appended to the biography is a volume of a similar type containing
  sketches of artists and other contemporaries. ... After the second
  edition, 1829, the book dropped out of sight until, in 1895, Edmund
  Gosse edited the portion of the book relating to Nollekens. The
  present edition, by Wilfred Whitten, covers the entire work and is
  enriched by very careful and very full notes.” J. T. Gerould

       + =Bellman= 22:274 Mr 10 ‘17 600w

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 9 ‘16 800w

  “He has left us a vivid picture of an interesting age. Nollekens and
  his friends have long been known to connoisseurs of art and
  literature. It is to introduce them to a wider circle of readers that
  the present handsome edition has been issued, an edition copiously
  illustrated with rare drawings of old London and with reproductions of
  water-colors and engravings of worthies of the period.”

         =Dial= 62:29 Ja 11 ‘17 350w

  “Service to the antiquarian interested in ‘old London’ and in the
  Europe of that age is uniquely rendered by the rich foot-notes of the
  edition, involving much patient research.”

       + =Lit D= 54:263 F 3 ‘17 350w

  “The average reader will balk at the enormous quantity of
  oddities—literary, artistic, and personal—which Smith many years ago
  collected, and will question seriously whether, instead of two large
  volumes one small volume would not have been all that was needed of
  this material.”

         =Outlook= 115:74 Ja 10 ‘17 100w

  “Of interest to all who love the flavor of a past age. While it is
  written with a pleasant touch of formality, its character is primarily
  that of gossip, but it is gossip like Pepys’s, that never grows dull.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 18 ‘16 650w


=SMITH, JOSEPH SHUTER.= Trench warfare; a manual for officers and men.
il *$1.50 (6c) Dutton 355 17-16322

  “Lieutenant J. S. Smith is an American who enlisted at the beginning
  of the war with a Canadian regiment. He has been at the front ever
  since, and so has seen and taken an active part in the entire
  development of the trench system. Two years ago he was given a
  commission in the British army and is now fighting ‘somewhere in
  France’ as an officer in a famous British regiment. He describes with
  full technical detail the principles, rules, and methods for the
  location and construction of the three complete lines or systems of
  trenches that are called for by the new plan of warfare, explains
  methods of drainage, and the making of obstacles and entanglements.
  There are sections also upon bombs and bombing which classify and
  describe all the kinds of bombs that are used at the front, upon gas
  warfare, sniping, care of rifles, duties of an officer, prevention of
  frostbite and trench feet, and other matters.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:43 N ‘17

     + — =Engin News-Rec= 79:127 Jl 19 ‘17 340w

  “There is so much of value to the student officer condensed within a
  small space, that we can but note the chapters, location of trenches,
  trench drainage, and training as of particular importance. ...
  Numerous diagrams are helpful by way of clearer explanation.”

       + =Ind= 91:72 Jl 14 ‘17 130w

  “An admirable little manual for the men to whom trench warfare is as
  yet only a name.”

       + =New Repub= 12:140 S 1 ‘17 500w

  “The work seems to be strictly a technical war manual, and no doubt
  has considerable value for that purpose, for if American soldiers do
  go into the trenches in any numbers, this information will prove most
  valuable in saving many lives that would otherwise be lost in
  discovering the most efficient trench methods.” J. W. D.

       + =N Y Call= p14 Jl 1 ‘17 200w

  “Although it is intended to be a practical handbook the non-military
  person who wants to know more about such matters as dugouts and
  revetments and grenades and tear bombs than it is possible to learn
  from the newspapers will find the book easy and interesting to read.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:264 Jl 15 ‘17 480w

  “The information contained in this work must sooner or later be
  mastered by every American officer and private who is to serve in
  France.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:326 S ‘17 80w


=SMITH, LOGAN PEARSALL.= Trivia. il *$1.25 (5½c) Doubleday 824 17-28834

  A book of thoughts and impressions, inspired by sights and scenes in
  rural England and in London. Some of the brief essays and sketches,
  which run to little over a page in length, were privately printed at
  the Chiswick press in 1902; others have appeared in the New Statesman
  and the New Republic. The author is an American who has lived much
  abroad. He has also written a life of Sir Henry Wottan, a book of
  short stories about Oxford, and a volume on the English language for
  the Home university library.

  “Little essays, often provoking, like scraps of good talk overheard
  and lost—they give one a sense of the whimsical and perilous charm of
  daily life, with its meetings and words and accidents.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:87 D ‘17

  “I know of nothing since Lord Bacon quite like these ineffably dainty
  little paragraphs of gilded whim, these rainbow nuggets of wistful
  inquiry, these butterfly wings of fancy, these pointed sparklers of
  wit.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 O 20 ‘17 1400w

       + =Cleveland= p134 D ‘17 50w

  “Some of the little sketches are rather too ‘precious’; occasionally
  there is a veritable descent to flatness.”

     + — =Dial= 64:155 F 14 ‘18 220w

  “Some of the numbers are in the nature of prose poems, somewhat in the
  manner of the vers-librettists, but better than the run of such
  things. ... It is a pretty book in form, sad and wise in its contents,
  and sometimes exquisite.”

       + =Nation= 105:517 N 8 ‘17 140w


=SMITH, ONNIE WARREN.= Trout lore. il *$2 (5c) Stokes 799 17-10443

  A series of papers on trout and trout fishing by the angling editor of
  Outdoor Life. The chapters were written originally for that magazine
  and are reprinted with slight revisions. The author says of the book,
  “This is primarily a popular description of the ways of the eastern
  brook trout, though nearly everything set down here as true of the
  eastern fish may roughly be applied to his western relatives.” Among
  the chapters are: A page of natural history; Nuptial dress and
  etiquette; Comparative merits of char and salmon trouts; Trout and the
  weather; Fly-fishing for trout; A dissertation upon the dry fly;
  Bait-fishing for trout; Trout of the little brooks; The trout of the
  lakes. There are twenty-four illustrations from photographs.

  “Delightful illustrations from photographs.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:13 O ‘17

  “An interesting feature of the book is the classification of trout
  according to habitat. In the chapter on ‘The trout in the pan’ are
  some promising recipes for brook-side cooking that tempt to experiment
  this spring.”

       + =Dial= 62:406 My 3 ‘17 250w

  “He writes with charm upon an old theme, and fearlessly raises many
  debatable questions.”

       + =Nation= 105:491 N 1 ‘17 270w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:76 My ‘17

  “Readable even for the rank amateur.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:666 Je ‘17 80w


=SMITH, WALTER ROBINSON.= Introduction to educational sociology.
(Riverside textbooks in education) diags *$1.75 (1½c) Houghton 370.1
17-14234

  The author, who is professor of sociology and economics in the State
  normal school at Emporia, Kansas, approaches educational problems from
  a new point of view. He says that in the past education has been too
  much of an isolated institution. “In the past our schools have drawn
  their inspiration more largely from their own traditions than from
  their social environment.” Books on education have been written from
  the psychological and individual rather than from the social and
  sociological viewpoint. His aim in this book has been “to make a
  preliminary application of the uses to be made of the group unit in
  educational theory and practice.” The book is divided into two parts:
  Sociological foundations, and Educational applications. Selected
  references follow each chapter.

  “The treatment is sane. The style is clear. A wide influence is
  predicted for the book.” F. R. Clow

       + =Am J Soc= 23:271 S ‘17 630w

  “As a textbook in educational sociology it will fill a much-needed
  place in the training of teachers in the broader aspects of the
  educational problem.” J. P. Lichtenberger

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 74:305 N ‘17 310w

  “Dr Smith’s book is the most conspicuous contribution to the
  literature of this subject that has yet appeared. If one were to offer
  a criticism it would be that the work lacks philosophy.” R. L. Finney

     + — =Educ R= 56:169 F ‘18 1000w

  “It seems to us the best single book now available as a textbook in
  social education or educational sociology.”

       + =El School J= 18:74 S ‘17 290w

         =Ind= 91:296 Ag 25 ‘17 80w

  “His sociological bibliography is not very extensive. ... The book has
  in it a great deal that is true and useful, and is well written, for
  the most part. Very likely it will help a number of educators to
  realize that education is not an isolated institution. But it does not
  drive compellingly to the point, as such a book must do, even though
  elementary, if it is going to attract attention to a novel point of
  view.”

     + — =Nation= 105:271 S 6 ‘17 430w

  Reviewed by W. D. Lane

       + =Survey= 39:148 N 10 ‘17 600w


=SMUTS, JAN CHRISTIAAN.= War-time speeches; a compilation of public
utterances in Great Britain. *75c (3c) Doran 940.91 17-23463

  “As a former antagonist of those who are now its comrades in arms,
  General Smuts can criticize the British commonwealth—as he calls it in
  preference to empire—with something of detachment. ... Throughout his
  speeches he stresses the fact that Great Britain is a congeries of
  separate nations. He says the federal principle, as elaborated by us
  for instance, cannot work. Liberty and complete local sovereignty can
  alone hold the commonwealth together. Imperial conferences for foreign
  affairs, of an advisory order and preferably continuous, will bind
  each part of the commonwealth to every other part in a net light as
  air legally, constitutionally, yet tenacious as steel in actual
  practice.” (New Repub) These speeches were delivered in Great Britain
  in 1917 in connection with the session of the Imperial war cabinet and
  Imperial war conference.

  “The speeches show the breadth and depth of view of General Smuts, but
  as reading matter some of the book is disappointing, because the
  repetition of expression which is often an asset in a speech is not so
  in printed form.”

     + — =Ath= p409 Ag ‘17 40w

  “England has need to-day of a man of this type, one who is under the
  fringe of her robe, yet near enough the edge to feel and comprehend
  the just criticism of men on the outside. Smuts is direct, superbly
  logical, human and prophetic. That is a good deal to say of a man, but
  it is true in this case.” S. A.

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 D 5 ‘17 470w

  “The tone of the speeches is admirably fair.”

       + =New Repub= 13:sup16 N 17 ‘17 140w


=SNAITH, JOHN COLLIS.= The coming. *$1.50 (2c) Appleton 17-24695

  “Accepted at its surface value, ‘The coming’ is a portrayal of what
  might be expected to happen if the Second Advent were to take place
  to-day in England. The scene is an English village, very insular and
  stereotyped in customs and opinions. In this village is a young
  carpenter of scanty education and frail health—in fact an epileptic,
  and reputed to be of weak mind. He hears inner voices, and relates how
  the spirit of Goethe has visited him at night and asked him to join in
  prayer for stricken Germany. All this so shocks the good vicar of the
  village that he feels it his duty to take action ... and has the man
  committed as a dangerous lunatic. ... While shut up in the insane
  asylum, the new Messiah writes his message to the world in the form of
  a drama entitled, ‘The door,’ which is accepted enthusiastically by a
  little American Jew, the head of a syndicate of fifty theaters, who,
  after reading the manuscript, is so miraculously wrought upon that for
  the first time in his life he is indifferent to profit and loss. The
  play is a phenomenal success; it is translated into all the European
  tongues; it brings all nations successively to a realization of the
  error of their ways; the Nobel peace prize is awarded to the author,
  but when the commission arrives to confer it he is already dead.”—Pub
  W

         =A L A Bkl= 14:63 N ‘17

  “The opening scene, with its atmosphere of wonder, is more impressive
  than the later action, which is too neatly contrived, and, in its
  madhouse episodes, borders perilously upon the ridiculous.” H. W.
  Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 46:338 N ‘17 80w

  “It is impossible to take ‘The coming’ seriously. ... It is an absurd
  commingling of farce and melodrama. It brings to the reader absolutely
  no conviction of its reality.” E. F. E.

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 22 ‘17 1250w

  “It is utterly unconvincing. The incidents are forced and strained,
  and the characters, who are vague throughout, seem mere lay-figures
  for the working of the plot. As a novel ‘The coming’ is an
  unsatisfying and unimportant performance, but as an indication of
  spiritual unrest it has significance.”

     – + =Cath World= 106:411 D ‘17 300w

  “The least favorable thing that can be said about ‘The coming’ is that
  the personages in whom the ideas are embodied are not sufficiently
  specific and individual. ... The essential ideas are good, and at
  present it is real service to have presented them in an attractive
  way.” J: Macy

     + — =Dial= 63:345 O 11 ‘17 1450w

  “Mr Snaith’s sincere and interesting novel is somewhat weakened by
  this serious misconception of the personality of the Messiah.”

     + — =Ind= 92:259 N 3 ‘17 340w

  “Unluckily for the effect of the story, it is too patently ingenious.
  This is not a theme for cleverness. It is a theme of unfathomed
  possibilities, but one thing, at least, is clear: they will never be
  realized, or approach realization, by such means as Mr Snaith has at
  his command.”

       — =Nation= 105:456 O 25 ‘17 340w

         =New Repub= 13:sup14 N 17 ‘17 180w

  “In so far as Mr Snaith is an iconoclast, he is delightful; his
  satiric portrayal of the vicar as a representative of modern society
  is the artistry of a skilled workman. The book is flimsily constructed
  and cumbersomely written. It has all the disadvantages of a mongrel
  religious essay-novel. The warp of theology and woof of novel produces
  a cloth neither commendable as an intellectual contribution, much less
  as a thing of beauty.” H. J. Szold

     + – =N Y Call= p14 N 11 ‘17 700w

  “Written in a style delicate, subtle, often beautiful. ... The
  exceedingly difficult subject is handled with delicacy and
  considerable skill.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:353 S 23 ‘17 1300w

  “We should not quarrel, however, with anyone who chose to say that in
  this singular and touching book—that is in the main so shrewd, so
  witty, so astringent, so deeply pitiful, of so level a gaze, so true a
  vision—there are passages of an unpersuasiveness that are hard to
  forget.” Lawrence Gilman

     + — =No Am= 206:948 D ‘17 1350w

  “As a piece of literary art the book is remarkable.”

       + =Outlook= 117:386 N 7 ‘17 110w

  “To many readers there are numerous incongruities which cross the
  boundary of irreverence—the epilepsy, the patronizing and
  ever-recurrent phrase, ‘He’s a dear fellow,’ the conception of
  Divinity in the role of a playwright. Furthermore there is a lack of
  inspiration verging upon the commonplace in the conversation of the
  central character, with the exception of his frequent quotations from
  the Bible. ... In conclusion, one wonders whether the author himself
  realized how very pro-German his special brand of pacifism sounds.”
  Calvin Winter

       — =Pub W= 92:802 S 15 ‘17 850w

         =R of Rs= 56:555 N ‘17 350w

  “Recognizing the difficulties of handling such a plot, one cannot deny
  that Mr Snaith has developed it with taste and restraint. The story
  does not, however, touch the high standards as a novel attained in the
  author’s previous stories. The influence on Mr Snaith of ‘The servant
  in the house’ and ‘The passing of the third floor back’ is apparent.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 500w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p516 O 25 ‘17 590w


=SNEATH, ELIAS HERSHEY=, and others. Religious training in the school
and home. *$1.50 Macmillan 377 17-24241

  This manual for parents and teachers has been written in connection
  with the preparation of the two series of books known as “The golden
  rule series” and “The king’s highway series.” It may be used
  independently however. It is based on a similar manual, “Moral
  training in the school and home,” six new chapters having been added,
  certain portions omitted, and the remainder revised. Chapters
  discussing the importance of religious training and considering aims
  and method are followed by others devoted to: The bodily life [2
  chapters]; The intellectual life; The social life [6 chapters]; The
  economic life; The political life: The æsthetic life. Suggestions for
  the children’s reading follow each chapter and at the close there is a
  bibliography for teachers.

  “The book is good, but not so good as one has a right to expect from
  the scholarship and experience of the authors.”

     + — =Educ R= 56:173 F ‘18 50w

  “In a useful way it correlates what has been written and said on the
  subject in recent years.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 21 ‘17 230w


=SNEDDEN, DAVID SAMUEL.= Problems of secondary education. (Riverside
textbooks in education) *$1.50 (2c) Houghton 379.17 17-4796

  “The conflicts regarding educational aims, characteristic of much of
  the current discussion, center largely about the high school.
  Professor Snedden considers these in ‘Problems of secondary
  education,’ a series of twenty-five ‘letters’ to superintendents,
  college presidents, principals and teachers. The restatement of aims
  in terms of concrete purposes of obvious value to men and women living
  today, and the adaptation of materials and methods to the attainment
  of these aims, constitute the text of these articles.”—Ind

         =A L A Bkl= 13:430 Jl ‘17

  “Where Dr Snedden is critical, one follows him in hearty agreement. He
  touches, with a gentle pertinence that even high-school teachers
  should understand, these sterile attitudes and outworn notions that
  must be made over. It is only when he becomes dogmatic that one finds
  fault. Dr Snedden’s conviction of the necessity of separating cultural
  and vocational education will certainly be shared by few educational
  progressives.” Randolph Bourne

     + — =Dial= 62:303 Ap 5 ‘17 1350w

  “The book will be of real service to those concerned with the
  readjustments taking place in our educational systems.”

       + =Ind= 90:253 My 5 ‘17 90w

         =Nation= 104:543 My 3 ‘17 270w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:73 My ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:434 My ‘17 60w

         =Pratt= p12 Jl ‘17 50w

  “What we need at this juncture is a clear statement of the aims that
  underlie the changes that are taking place. Dr Snedden’s ‘Problems of
  secondary education’ is a forceful and comprehensive statement of
  these aims. Not the least interesting part of this book is the
  introduction by Mr Cubberley, editor of the ‘Riverside textbooks in
  education.’” F. W. Johnson

       + =School R= 25:370 My ‘17 1150w

  Reviewed by W: A. Aery

       + =Survey= 39:148 N 10 ‘17 110w


=SNELL, ROY JUDSON.= Eskimo Robinson Crusoe. il *$1 (4½c) Little
17-28598

  The story of Kituk, a little Eskimo lad, who is cast adrift on an ice
  floe. Kituk is the proud possessor of three Eskimo dogs, and he has
  also as a pet a white bear that he has tamed. These four animal
  friends are with him when he finds himself drifting out into Bering
  sea, and in all his adventures they are his faithful companions and
  helpers.

  “Here is the note of extravagance that little people love rather than
  the air of truth. But with its amusing illustrations of animals in
  action it will please those for whom it is intended.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 50w


=SNORRI STURLUSON.= Prose Edda; tr. from the Icelandic, with an introd.
by Arthur G. Brodeur. $1.50 Am.-Scandinavian foundation 839.6 16-22078

  “‘The prose Edda’ is a Scandinavian classic [of the early thirteenth
  century], and one of the greatest. It has found a very skilful and
  sympathetic translator in Dr Brodeur. His version contains all of the
  ‘Gylfaginning’ and all of the Skaldskaparmal (the poesy of the
  skalds). It is the first translation in English which contains all of
  the second part. Dasent renders only the narrative passages of this
  portion.”—Nation

  “The Library of Congress enters this book under Edda Snorri
  Sturlusonar.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:303 Ap ‘17

  “This should attract three classes of readers, students of
  Scandinavian history, myth and literature; lovers of folklore and the
  primitive simplicities in language and literature; and poets.”

       + =Ind= 89:118 Ja 15 ‘17 50w

  “Not only in respect of completeness, but in respect of accuracy and
  spirit, Dr Brodeur’s translation ought to supersede the other English
  ones.”

       + =Nation= 104:683 Je 7 ‘17 90w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:182 D ‘16


=SNOW, WILLIAM LEONARD=, ed. High school prize speaker. *90c Houghton
808.5 16-20119

  A book of selections adapted for use as readings. The preface says
  that they are selections that have taken prizes at the J. Murray Kay
  prize-speaking contests held annually at the Brookline (Mass.) high
  school. Among them are such old favorites as “The death of
  Steerforth,” “My double and how he undid me,” “How ‘Ruby’ played,” and
  “Lasca.” Among the newer selections are Robert Haven Schauffler’s
  “Scum o’ the earth,” Alfred Noyes’ “The highwayman,” and stories by
  Myra Kelly, Jack London, Joseph C. Lincoln and others.

  “The collection, as a whole, is judicious, being diversified, and
  combining things old and modern.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 F 4 ‘17 120w

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:157 My ‘17 90w


=SOLANO, E. JOHN=, ed. Field entrenchments; a manual of trench warfare
based on official manuals. il *$1 National military pub. co. 355

  This book reprinted from the second (1915) London edition, is said to
  have been “written by an engineer officer attached to the Imperial
  general staff,” who prefers to remain anonymous. It covers Spadework
  for riflemen; Hasty fire-cover; Fire-trenches; Communications;
  Concealment; Obstruction, and Shelters. There are eighty-seven
  illustrations.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:113 Ja ‘18

  “Copious illustrations, diagrams, and plans clarify the text.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:379 O 7 ‘17 150w


Soldier of France to his mother; letters from the trenches on the
western front. $1 (2½c) McClurg 940.91 17-17991

  An English edition of this work, translated by “V. M.,” was issued
  under the title “Letters of a soldier, 1914-1915,” with an
  introduction by A. Clutton-Brock. The translation for the American
  edition has been made by Theodore Stanton, who contributes an
  introduction, which is, he says, in part a paraphrase of the original
  French preface by André Chevrillon. The letters were written by a
  young French soldier who was in the war from its beginning up to April
  6, 1915. Since that date he has been “missing.” An unusual spiritual
  comradeship existed between son and mother, and his letters to her
  reveal a soul sensitive to all the moods of nature and to loveliness
  in all forms. “Whatever happens, life has had beauty for me,” were his
  last written words.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:55 N ‘17

  “These letters contain many passages and ideas of unusual beauty.”

       + =Ath= p412 Ag ‘17 110w

  “Though pantheistic in its tenor, there is nevertheless a strong,
  earnest religious note in these letters. Though written from day to
  day in the trenches they nevertheless form a progressive whole like
  the stanzas of a poem. And exceptionally commendable is the
  translation of Mr Stanton. He has succeeded in carrying beauty from
  French into English, a task not always successful.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 29 ‘17 470w

  “Expressing the mental and spiritual reactions of a highly-strung
  nature, the letters are too abstract to be popular, but they form one
  of the most remarkable literary expressions of the war and are of the
  stuff which lasts.”

       + =Cleveland= p1 Ja ‘18 120w

  “It must be a source of great comfort to the mother to feel that,
  after all, her son achieved in these letters something like complete
  artistic expression of his noble nature, to know of the wide
  recognition they have had in France, and to learn that now they are
  given in English to America, which needs their lesson and their
  inspiration.”

       + =Dial= 63:279 S 27 ‘17 380w

  “Characterized by a grave and touching spirituality and an
  exceptionally deep filial affection.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:683 O ‘17 40w

  “One feature of ‘Letters of a soldier’ is his adoration of his
  mother. ... He is, perhaps, typically French in his powers of artistic
  vision; but he is neither French nor English in the most striking side
  of his book. He belongs to the rare order of philosophers who can
  reach serenity in a world of horrors. ... He had got beyond the idea
  of personal success: ‘To a child in a game it is a fine thing to carry
  the flag; but for a man it is enough to know that the flag will yet be
  carried. And that is what every moment of great august Nature brings
  home to me!’ ... This is the most remarkable book of its kind we have
  seen lately.”

     + + =Sat R= 124:69 Jl 28 ‘17 440w

  “All through his reasoning is different from that of the British
  soldier, though the results are the same. Mr Clutton-Brock says: ‘It
  would hardly be possible for any Englishman to ignore the war so
  resolutely, to refuse any kind of consent to it; or, if an Englishman
  were capable of such refusal, he would probably be a conscientious
  objector. We must romanticise things to some extent if we are to
  endure them; we must at least make jokes about them; but if a thing is
  bad to a Frenchman, it is altogether bad; and he will have no dealings
  with it. He may have to endure it; but he endures gravely and tensely
  with a sad Latin dignity, and so it is that this Frenchman endures the
  war from first to last.’ ... In the writer of these letters love of
  beauty passes insensibly into his religion. His power of wrapping
  himself round with serenity as with a cloak when he has gazed on a
  hill bathed in colour or on a flower growing in the mud is remarkable.
  If his religion is far from orthodox, it is real.”

       + =Spec= 119:117 Ag 4 ‘17 1200w

  “All but two or three of the letters are addressed to his mother; and
  they are letters which, as Mr Clutton-Brock points out, no son would
  have been likely to write to his mother in any country but France. ...
  His letters tell very little of the actual operations of war. ... The
  interest of the book is independent of anything described or related.
  One reads it chiefly for the self-revelation of an unusual and
  fascinating personality. The writer is evidently one of the last men
  to whom soldiering would have appealed as a career. ... His natural
  outlook is almost as pacific as that of Mr Ramsay MacDonald.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p315 Jl 5 ‘17 630w


=SOLOGUB, FEODOR, pseud. (FEDOR KUZMICH TETERNIKOV).= Created legend;
auth. tr. by J: Cournos. *$1.35 Stokes 17-24700

  “A powerful, deeply symbolical, and most original story, which has as
  a background the abortive Russian revolution of 1905. The hero is a
  poet with a vision of a less chaotic and more beautiful world than
  that in which he lives, and the heroine dreams of a day of freedom.”
  (Ath) “In this book many strange things come, now one and now another,
  into view. There are political meetings and riots, with hideous tales
  of Cossacks and official brutality; there is an attack upon the
  heroine by tramps; there are school inspections; there are spies,
  seedy villains, and many kinds of ruffians. There are mysterious
  children, of whom it would be futile to ask whether they are ‘alive’
  or ‘dead’; there is a grove of Hellenic culture and nudity in a
  forest. ... The unity lies beneath the events and beneath the
  characters. It lies in the ideas, the philosophy ... for the yearning
  dreams of genius.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

       + =Ath= p47 Ja ‘17 60w

  “Some will say, with the police captain of the story, that Sologub
  writes every-day pornography, masquerading under high-sounding names.
  But even those who make such a foolish judgment will discover that
  Sologub did create a picture of Russia and Russian life, the outlines
  of which not even time can soften or cause to fade.” H. S.

       + =New Repub= 12:25 Ag 4 ‘17 1000w

  “No greater contrast to ‘Tales of the revolution’ than ‘The created
  legend’ could be imagined. It is a symbolist novel; in it revolution
  is poetized, apotheosized, frequently, we regret to feel,
  sentimentalized. Many of the scenes in the tale are bathed in an
  atmosphere of delicate and clear beauty. Yet, every now and then we
  feel a decadence, a hint of decay, beneath the beauty. With all his
  fairy-tale simplicity, Sologub belongs to an older, a more
  sophisticated, a less healthful tradition than does Artzibashef.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:249 Jl 1 ‘17 550w

  “‘The created legend’ is a little unfortunate in other respects than
  its ugliness. In his introduction Mr John Cournos tells us that the
  ‘legend’ embraces more books than this that he has newly translated,
  and that the original title of this member of the series is ‘Drops of
  blood.’ Moreover, the Russian means not ‘the created legend,’ but ‘the
  legend in the course of creation.’ ... There is more of magic in
  Sologub’s touch, perhaps, than in that of any among the modern Russian
  novelists whose work is becoming known in England. If this novel
  sometimes hurts with deliberate brutality it does more than heal the
  injuries.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p511 O 26 ‘16 1000w


Some imagist poets, 1917; an annual anthology. *75c Houghton 821.08
(15-8258)

  Six poets are again represented in the third annual volume of imagist
  verse: Richard Aldington, H. D., John Gould Fletcher, F. S. Flint, D
  H. Lawrence and Amy Lowell. Amy Lowell’s contribution to the volume is
  the series known as “Lacquer prints,” adapted from the Japanese. John
  Gould Fletcher contributes a notable poem on Lincoln.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:16 O ‘17

  “In the ‘Imagist anthology’ the work might almost be interchangeable,
  and one closes the book with a purely composite sense of it. Not that
  the composite technique lacks its individuality, one has a distinct
  impression of imagism as a cult, but the majority of the poems might
  be signed by the same name for all the impression they convey of the
  personality, the differentiating self, of the writer.” J. B.
  Rittenhouse

     + — =Bookm= 46:438 D ‘17 900w

  “Richard Aldington has a finer group of poems in this year’s anthology
  than the other two; this is also true of the poems by John Gould
  Fletcher and F. S. Flint. ... Imagism is an art-method which,
  expressing substance according to the degree of talent in the poet,
  is, though a younger, an accepted member in the verse forms of poetry.
  The survival of the ‘Some imagist poets’ anthology to a third annual
  issue is a good proof of its importance and influence.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Ap 14 ‘17 1350w

  “The little group remains the same, whether in composition or in
  spirit. Nor is the offering of 1917 very different from that of
  1916. ... The war is heard throughout the present volume: in
  Aldington’s ‘Field manœuvres,’ in Fletcher’s ‘Armies,’ a sombre yet
  vivid thing, and in Flint’s concern with ‘Searchlight’ and
  ‘Zeppelins.’” H: B. Fuller

     + — =Dial= 63:271 S 27 ‘17 850w

  “I recommend in ‘Some imagist poets’ the courage of its brevity. For
  the rest, the work follows its type—oracular, crepuscular,
  spectacular.” O. W. Firkins

     – + =Nation= 105:597 N 29 ‘17 60w

       + =R of Rs= 56:105 Jl ‘17 100w

  “Mr Fletcher’s ‘Lincoln’ and one Whistler-like impression of
  ‘Moonlight’ make his selections foremost in the book. H. D. and F. S.
  Flint are least interesting. H. D.’s ‘Pygmalion’ has thought, but it
  is weakly expressed. D. H. Lawrence and Amy Lowell have added little
  to their reputations. Lawrence in ‘Terra nuvo’ adding mysticism to an
  apparent trial at the Dantesque. Amy Lowell is quite disappointing.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 850w


=SOMMERS, CECIL.=[2] Temporary heroes, il *$1.25 (2c) Lane 940.91
17-27944

  Letters from the western front to “The only ‘Phyllis,’” written “from
  all kinds of places, mostly unpleasant, in all weathers, chiefly rain,
  and at all sorts of odd times.” The period covered is from February,
  1915, to July, 1916, and the grim happenings of those months, such of
  them as fall within the experience of this Scottish trooper, are none
  the less grim because of the punch which is put into the narrative.
  Neither rain, mud, plagues of the trenches, nor the crumpling up by
  shell fire can down his wit and sturdy courage. It is the invincible
  hero of Ypres and the Flanders front whom we see here; yet he, too,
  had a vulnerable heel. For we leave him after sixteen months taking
  sketchy account of passing days, on a Red cross barge able only to
  reiterate, “Isn’t it a terrible war?”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:163 F ‘18

  “Of books about the war there have been many, but few as likable as
  this modest collection of letters. Mr Sommers possesses a keen sense
  of humor; no bit of comedy escapes him, and he relates all sorts of
  tales, and gives them many clever touches of his own. Even when the
  joke is at his own expense he enjoys it. Long before the book ends the
  reader has come to have a very genuine liking for this young writer, a
  liking which is enhanced by the delightfully comic little sketches
  with which he has illustrated his letters.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:543 D 9 ‘17 570w

  “There is little unrelieved tragedy in the book. The letters would be
  far less significant than they are if the writer had not the
  sensibility to recognize the full horror of what is taking place, but
  he observes it from an angle which lets the horror be seen in quaint
  patterns.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p439 S 13 ‘17 620w


=SONNECK, OSCAR GEORGE THEODORE.= Suum cuique; essays in music. *$2.50
Schirmer 780.4 17-406

  Mr Sonneck is the editor of the Musical Quarterly (New York) and has
  been chief of the music division, Library of Congress, since 1902.
  “Among the topics treated by him in this volume of essays are ‘Music
  and progress,’ ‘MacDowell versus MacDowell,’ ‘A national conservatory:
  some pros and cons,’ ‘A survey of music in America,’ and ‘Signs of a
  new uplift in Italy’s musical life.’ Also included in this volume are
  several interesting biographical studies—‘The musical side of our
  first presidents,’ ‘Benjamin Franklin’s musical side,’ and ‘Was
  Richard Wagner a Jew?’”—R of Rs

  “‘Suum cuique’ is not a particularly alluring title for a book of
  essays on music, but O. G. Sonneck knows how to hold the attention of
  all who open this volume.” H: T. Finck

       + =Nation= 105:546 N 15 ‘17 260w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:73 My ‘17 50w

       + =R of Rs= 55:219 F ‘17 80w


=SORLEY, CHARLES HAMILTON.= Marlborough, and other poems. *$1 Putnam 821

  The author was a young poet and soldier who was killed on the western
  front in 1916. “Poetry seems to have been the natural expression of
  his mind, yet he hardly sought this expression until the last year of
  his life. In a certain mystic quality his poems are comparable to the
  early work of W. B. Yeats; in intense love of the very soil of his
  country, to the sonnets of Rupert Brooke; and in fatalism and ardent,
  heroic realization of the values of life and death to our own young
  poet so lately dead, Alan Seeger.” (R of Rs)

  “This volume, as it stands, will, like the volumes of Rupert Brooke,
  afford convincing demonstration of what England is sacrificing in this
  war,—lives that would have shaped the thought and feeling of our
  country in the first half of the present century. It will bear
  testimony also to the type of men who, when the bolt fell in August
  1914, hesitated not in offering their services to the nation.” G. D.
  Hicks

       + =Hibbert J= 14:659 Ap ‘16 1200w

         =Pratt= p33 Ja ‘17

  “The poetic work of Charles Hamilton Sorley, late of Marlborough
  college and sometime captain in the Suffolk regiment, has the double
  appeal of beauty and of pathos. It is astonishing that a boy of
  eighteen should have written poetry of so high an order filled with
  such precocious maturity of thought.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:210 F ‘17 450w

  “The six months that he spent in Germany before the war inspired him
  with respect and tolerance for our enemies. For the rest, we may note
  his intense love of Downland and of Marlborough. The later verses are
  unrevised, and often rough and halting in metre, but they have vision
  and an unaffected originality of imagery.”

       + =Spec= 116:661 My 27 ‘16 400w

  “The third edition contains ‘illustrations in prose’ which Sorley’s
  friends will not like to miss. ... He was a careful letter-writer, and
  his letters, though they were probably written quickly, add materially
  to the value and dignity of this memorial volume.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p580 D 7 ‘16 250w


=SOUINY-SEYDLITZ, LEONIE IDA PHILIPOVNA, baroness.= Russia of yesterday
and to-morrow. il *$2 (3½c) Century 947 17-18377

  “Baroness Souiny is by birth a Czech, a native of one of the Balkan
  States, and married a Russian baron and lived ever since in Russia
  until she came to America, soon after the beginning of the war.” (N Y
  Times) Her first chapter, Awakening Russia, and her last, Russia of
  to-morrow deal with the revolution of 1917, the difficulty of bringing
  the Russian peasants to a realization of what democracy means, and
  what the provisional government really is. Other chapters deal with:
  The military party; Aristocratic women in Russian life and politics;
  German influence in Russia; America and Russia; Russian art, dramatic
  literature and music, etc. That on America and Russia argues that
  “Russia and America have so much to give each other of ethical,
  spiritual and practical values that the alliance of which Russians
  dream and which the Americans once declined must come about.”

  “More entertaining than authoritative.”

     – + =A L A Bkl= 14:23 O ‘17

  “A leisurely, chatty, well-meaning but unreliable, woefully incoherent
  book.” Abraham Yarmolinsky

     – + =Bookm= 46:483 D ‘17 190w

  “The baroness’s style sometimes suggests that she is herself subject
  to German influences. Her spelling was certainly made in Germany. ...
  She has little but good to say of Grigorii Rasputin, who ‘brought back
  the Czar to his people and the people to the Czar.’ The book, with its
  comments on literature, art and music, its descriptions of travel, its
  many entertaining anecdotes and trivialities and its sixteen full-page
  illustrations is well worth reading, but it must be read with caution,
  for it abounds in questionable judgments.” N. H. D.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 800w

  “Most interesting is the author’s reaction to the revolution. She
  makes it very plain that she has little faith in the lasting powers of
  the democracy. ... Among other word pictures is one of the monk,
  Gregory Rasputin. The Baroness sees him as a simple peasant,
  absolutely patriotic and religious, a ‘Russian Billy Sunday.’”

     + — =Dial= 63:214 S 13 ‘17 300w

         =Ind= 91:30 Jl 7 ‘17 120w

  “There is grace, charm, picturesqueness and ease in the literary
  manner of this book, but the volume is crowded with equivocations,
  contradictions and half-thoughts. The author’s point of view
  concerning the temper of the people and the future of the republic is
  disappointingly feudal. Her prejudices cling to her like barnacles.”
  D: Rosenstein

     – + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 5 ‘17 2000w

  “Her pages are very readable, but the more one reads, the more does
  one wonder, or doubt, if she is justified always in her
  generalizations. And those doubts increase when one reaches the
  chapters in which she deals with recent events and discovers her point
  of view.”

         =N Y Times= 22:262 Jl 15 ‘17 650w

  “Possibly a little hectic, wordy, and hastily put together for the
  reader’s entire satisfaction.”

     – + =Outlook= 116:593 Ag 15 ‘17 120w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:675 O ‘17 70w

  “It is evident that the writer possesses an acquaintance with her
  people that is the fruit not only of long familiarity but also of
  intelligent study. In them she has faith.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Je 26 ‘17 300w


=SPENCE, LEWIS.= Myths and legends of Babylonia and Assyria. il *$3 (3c)
Stokes 299 17-4995

  It is the author’s belief that this book will appeal particularly to
  the modern reader who loves the romance of antiquity. His aim has been
  “to provide not only a popular account of the religion and mythology
  of ancient Babylonia and Assyria, but to extract and present to the
  reader the treasures of romance latent in the subject, the peculiar
  richness of which has been recognized since the early days of
  archæological effort in Chaldea.” The book has eight color plates by
  Evelyn Paul and thirty-two other illustrations.

  “The title of the volume is just a trifle misleading. Although most of
  the myths and legends of the Babylonians and Assyrians are rather
  fully presented, the book is after all more largely a discussion of
  the religion of these two peoples. The author has given his readers a
  fairly good presentation of that religion, but it is doubtful whether
  the book is one whit more interesting than many books in the field
  that are the work of specialists, and it was just this that the volume
  was intended to popularize. ... The book abounds in inaccuracies,
  hardly pardonable even in one who is not a specialist. The author has
  depended too largely upon older writings and upon men like Sayce and
  Hilprecht, neither of whom is particularly reliable. The
  black-and-white illustrations are good, but those in color by Evelyn
  Paul are neither artistic nor historically true.” T. J. Meek

     + — =Am J Theol= 21:459 Jl ‘17 730w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:23 O ‘17

  “Mr Spence, our leading authority on Mexican archaeology and
  mythology, has here given a popular account of the religion and
  mythology of ancient Babylonia and Assyria, a subject which he knows
  well. With the general reader in view, he has endeavoured, not to
  separate the gold of romance from the darker ore of antiquarian
  research, but to blend romance and knowledge. The result, with a theme
  so rich in enchantment, is a picturesque and fascinating book, that,
  if it does not add to knowledge, will add extensively to the band of
  readers interested in comparative religion and ancient history. ...
  There is a first-class index.”

       + =Ath= p583 D ‘16 130w


=SPENCER, HERBERT.= Man versus the state. *$2 (2c) Kennerley 301
16-23151

  Mr Beale, the editor, has prepared this edition of Spencer’s essays
  for publication in the belief that they are particularly applicable to
  conditions in America at the present time. The essays, he says, were
  written by Spencer “to warn the English people against the blight of
  officialism.” The same danger of “over-legislation” and
  “over-administration” now exists in America, he believes. The essays
  are published with critical comments by prominent Americans, among
  them Elihu Root, Henry Cabot Lodge, E. H. Gary, Augustus P. Gardner,
  Nicholas Murray Butler and William Howard Taft.

         =Cleveland= p6 Ja ‘17 50w

  “Particularly interesting are Elihu Root on ‘The new toryism’ and E.
  H. Gary on ‘Overlegislation.’ But it is no disparagement to any of
  these men to say that the clarity and dexterity in exposition that
  characterized Spencer put almost any man at a disadvantage whose
  writing is set side by side with these paragraphs dictated so long
  ago.”

       + =Nation= 104:166 F 8 ‘17 300w

  “The underlying conception of this edition was an entirely admirable
  one; its execution has come very near to tragedy. ... Gathering about
  him in massed formation the heavy artillery of American
  conservatism—Mr Root, Dr Butler, Judge Gary, Mr Taft—Mr Beale has
  prefaced Spencer’s essays by a series of prose lyrics which, while
  they may gratify the few remaining adherents of the Spencerian
  philosophy, are otherwise valuable only as a somewhat inept expression
  of the ideals of the last age.” H. J. L.

       — =New Repub= 10:142 Mr 3 ‘17 1650w

  “For the man or woman who wishes to see clearly just what problems the
  United States is facing, and which must be worked out to our best
  national advantage, there is no better contribution to political
  thought than this volume of economic and sociological wisdom founded
  upon the broad philosophical foundation that ‘those forces that create
  and develop nations are not to be restricted by prohibitory acts of
  legislatures.’”

       + =R of Rs= 55:104 Ja ‘17 200w


=SPIEGEL VON UND ZU PECKELSHEIM, EDGAR, freiherr.= Adventures of the
U-202; an actual narrative. *$1 (4c) Century 940.91 17-6334

  The title-page tells us the author is commander of the U-202, and a
  copyright notice says that the book is published by arrangement with
  the New York World, but it is not stated whether the book is a
  translation or an original account, whether it was first written for
  German or for American readers. It gives an account of the routine on
  a German submarine, of the thrills and dangers encountered, of the
  methods of attacking enemy ships, of tracking them down or escaping
  from them, and finally describes the joyous homecoming of a U-boat
  crew.

  “The author is possessed of complete knowledge of under-sea craft and
  its methods. His technical account of the U-boat in operation and of
  the life of those who man it, is worth reading.”

         =Boston Transcript= p14 Ap 7 ‘17 200w

  “References to the hated English are sometimes unnecessarily
  vituperative, as was only natural. The book is decidedly out of the
  ordinary, and will arouse even the jaded reader of war narratives.” P.
  F. Bicknell

         =Dial= 62:306 Ap 5 ‘17 120w

  “Presents us with a ‘peculiar’ sea-faring psychology. It crops out in
  the bombastic manner of our dare-devil hero and his stage-strutting
  crew. Compare this stuff with the modest, straightforward narrative of
  a real sailor such as Captain König of the ‘Deutschland!’ The book
  does not bear a single German official endorsement.”

       — =Ind= 90:298 My 12 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:58 Ap ‘17

  “An exciting and thoroughly interesting book. It has in it a good deal
  of out-and-out information about submarines and submarine warfare. And
  it gives its readers many a thrill. It has its place in the public’s
  war library.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:182 My 6 ‘17 300w


=SPINDLER, FRANK NICHOLAS.=[2] Sense of sight. *$1.25 Moffat 17-23764

  “The aim of this volume is to tell the story of the wonderful power of
  vision in plain English and in a readable way, and yet keep true to
  the scientific facts and theories. There is a chapter on visual
  illusions, and another analyzing the visual type of mind. The book
  closes with a chapter on Hygiene of the eye and of vision.” (Boston
  Transcript) This volume is one of the new series “Our senses and what
  they mean to us.” One other volume has also been issued, “The sense of
  taste,” by H. L. Hollingworth and A. T. Poffenberger.

  “Though elementary, the book is enlightening; though detailed, it is
  comprehensive.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 24 ‘17 250w

  “It rarely rises above meagre adequacy; and it is in a measure
  unfortunate that so important a subject fails of any distinctive
  handling. The arrangement of the chapters is admirable.”

     – + =Dial= 64:116 Ja 31 ‘18 230w

  “One is pleased to find so much useful information presented in
  comparatively few pages and couched in simple, popular language.”
  Medicus

       + =N Y Call= p15 N 4 ‘17 200w


=SPINGARN, JOEL ELIAS.= Creative criticism: essays on the unity of
genius and taste. *$1.20 (5½c) Holt 801 17-15179

  The first essay in this book, The new criticism, was published in
  1911, after its delivery as a lecture at Columbia university. It was
  regarded at that time as quite iconoclastic in its ruthless
  destruction of time-honored standards. Added to it in this volume are
  three other essays: Dramatic criticism and the theatre; Prose and
  verse; and Creative connoisseurship. A note on genius and taste, a
  reply to a criticism of the first essay by John Galsworthy, is given
  in an appendix.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:16 O ‘17

  “What Mr Spingarn fails lamentably and completely to realize is that
  the conception of the drama as ‘a creative art born in the brain of
  the playwright’ and as something inextricably concerned with theatres
  and actors are not irreconcilable at all.” F. I.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 1400w

         =Ind= 91:184 Ag 4 ‘17 100w

         =N Y Times= 22:248 Jl 1 ‘17 980w

       + =R of Rs= 56:103 Jl ‘17 180w

  “Prof. Spingarn’s views should awaken as much debate on their
  reappearing as when first promulgated.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 800w

  “He demolishes more decayed and genteel traditions than the Victorians
  can justly be taxed with; and in the face of new realities his
  enthusiasm is so keen and clear-sighted that we wish that he would
  give us a few examples of the art besides this spirited defence of it.
  We wish indeed that he had written a longer book; for the subjects he
  deals with are very complex, and many of the interesting things that
  he says would be still more interesting if they were discussed more
  fully.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p271 Je 7 ‘17 1100w


=SPRING, LEVERETT WILSON.= History of Williams college. il *$3 (4c)
Houghton 378 17-15570

  Professor Spring for twenty-three years held the chair of English
  literature at Williams college, and is now an emeritus professor. The
  opening of the college is described and the history is brought down to
  date, but “a detailed survey of the present administration is not
  attempted.” There are eighteen illustrations, nine of them pictures of
  college presidents, and nine appendixes, one of which gives “Williams
  volunteers, graduate and non-graduate, in the Civil war and their
  rank.”

  “The general reader may find not a little to attract him in the
  descriptions of college life a century ago and in the biographical
  sketch of Mark Hopkins.”

       + =Ind= 91:296 Ag 25 ‘17 60w

       + =Lit D= 55:36 S 29 ‘17 270w

  “It will hold its field alone, for no history of the college has
  appeared for many years, and its most exhaustive predecessor contains
  an intermixture of much historical matter upon Williamstown. The
  author has proportioned it in an unusual way. The history of the
  institution proper is held within bounds which leave abundant space
  for an account of the college life of the more eminent alumni of
  Williams, and to a certain extent of their later careers.”

       + =Nation= 105:435 O 18 ‘17 430w

  “The author’s text might well have been more vivid.”

     + — =Outlook= 116:489 Jl 25 ‘17 110w

  “A well-written and appropriately illustrated history. Any history of
  Williams must necessarily be largely given up to biographical sketches
  of personalities who as presidents and professors have built up the
  institution. Although always a small college, relatively speaking,
  Williams has, throughout its history, exerted an influence in the
  nation out of all proportion to its size.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:328 S ‘17 70w

  “This is not a mere retelling of a story already twice told, but is an
  authoritative narrative, based upon painstaking researches, which have
  brought to light a considerable amount of new material having to do
  especially with the earlier years of the college. ... This
  well-proportioned, informing, and thoroughly readable book should be
  attractive to all interested in the early life of New England and in
  the history of American education.”

 *     + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Je 22 ‘17 1500w


=SPRUNT, JAMES.=[2] Chronicles of the Cape Fear River, 1660-1916. 2d ed
$4 Rosa P. Chiles, 142 A st., N.E., Washington, D.C. 17-10368

  A revised and enlarged edition of a work that was privately printed by
  the author in 1915.

  “The additions, amounting to exactly one hundred pages of text, are
  supplemented by six rare maps and a thoroughly adequate index of
  forty-four pages. The most important additions are ‘Wilmington in the
  forties,’ eight papers by John MacLaurin which originally appeared in
  the local newspapers; three reports on Wilmington trade, 1815, 1843,
  1872; the sketch, by Miss Rosa Pendleton Chiles, of the distinguished
  French scientist Alyre Raffeneau Delile, vice-consul in North Carolina
  (1802-1806); and an extended history of Wilmington churches.” (Am Hist
  R)

  “The book’s most interesting chapter remains ‘Blockade running,’
  slightly extended. This volume constitutes a contribution, of
  permanent value, to the historical literature, not only of North
  Carolina, but also of the United States.” Archibald Henderson

       + =Am Hist R= 23:217 O ‘17 250w

  “The book is more even than a rarely complete local history. It is a
  valuable contribution to general history, giving as it does a
  summary—admirable in its terseness and clarity—of the events in one of
  the most historical sections of the United States from the time of its
  exploration and settlement down through the Civil war to the present.
  A Confederate himself, Mr Sprunt’s personal experience in ‘blockade
  running’ gives authority to his descriptions of that science. Sketches
  of the old plantations, of quaintly interesting social customs, of
  historic localities and individuals, add to the value as well as to
  the interest of a book, whose vast detail is carefully marshalled and
  clearly presented.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 11 ‘17 440w

       + =Lit D= 55:42 S 29 ‘17 110w

       + =Outlook= 116:488 Jl 25 ‘17 110w

  “Merely as a contribution to local history this volume is of more than
  ordinary importance, because of the unusual care that has been given
  to its preparation, and the excellent literary form in which it now
  appears.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:108 Jl ‘17 140w


=SQUIRE, JACK COLLINGS.= Tricks of the trade. *$1.25 Putnam 827 (Eng ed
A17-1182)

  “One of the most diverting books of parody in recent years. Its range
  is wide—from Pope to Davies—and almost as many styles of parodic
  writing are exhibited as there are styles of parodies. In the first
  half are ten imitations of the work of contemporary writers, mostly
  poets. In the second are ten duplex parodies.” (Dial) “Wordsworth
  rewrites ‘The everlasting mercy,’ Mr Masefield gives us his version of
  ‘Casabianca,’ Henry James revises the church catechism, Lord Byron
  takes liberties in the ‘Don Juan’ stanza with ‘The passing of Arthur,’
  and, most brilliant of all, Gray rewrites his ‘Elegy’ in the cemetery
  of ‘Spoon River.’” (Spec)

       + =Ath= p101 F ‘17 50w

  “These burlesques are frequently criticisms of no mean order.” Odell
  Shepard

       + =Dial= 63:20 Je 28 ‘17 350w

  “Mr Squire has already proved himself a master of the art of travesty,
  and his ‘Tricks of the trade’ is a pure joy. For here we have no crude
  verbal mimicry, but an appropriation of the spirit of the original,
  with just that amount of exaggeration and perversion required to
  pillory its weakness. As a sustained ‘tour de force’ the burlesque on
  Mr Masefield, ‘the poet in the back streets,’ is perhaps the most
  deadly burlesque on the violence of the new ‘School of real human
  emotion’; but we are not so sure that the parody of Mr Belloc in his
  satirico-comic vein is not even cleverer, for it is a burlesque on a
  burlesque.”

       + =Spec= 118:339 Mr 17 ‘17 400w

  “Although we may laugh we cannot deny that he tells us more about Mr
  Belloc, or Mr Wells, or Sir H. Newbolt than many serious and
  industrious articles where the gifts and failings of these writers are
  scrupulously weighed to an ounce. ... Of the parodies of modern
  writers, that of Mr Shaw seems to us the least successful.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p112 Mr 8 ‘17 800w


=STACPOOLE, FLORENCE.=[2] Advice to women. *$1.25 Funk 618.2 17-12840

  This work on “the care of the health before, during, and after
  confinement, with hints on the care of the new-born infant and an
  appendix on what to get ready for a baby” has been revised from the
  fifth London edition to conform to American practice, by Lydia E.
  Anderson, president of the state board of nurse examiners, University
  of the State of New York. Two interesting chapters tell what modern
  science has done to lessen danger and suffering in childbirth.

  “The work of an Englishwoman high in rank as a teacher of health, and
  especially of obstetrics, is here supplemented by the revisionary
  service of an American woman equally deserving confidence. It is a
  book for women, by women, for the common welfare.”

       + =Lit D= 55:33 Jl 14 ‘17 100w


=STACPOOLE, HENRY DE VERE.= François Villon: his life and times,
1431-1463. *$2 Putnam (Eng ed 17-26321)

  “My object is to present to you François Villon, one of the strangest
  figures in all literature, and one of the greatest of French poets,”
  says the author. His method is to study Villon, the man, thru his
  writings. “Villon,” he says, “had the magical power of turning himself
  into literature.” First, however, he describes the France of Villon’s
  day.

  “There is appreciative literary criticism yet the book moves like a
  story. ... Mr Stacpoole published a translation of Villon’s poems in
  1914.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:343 My ‘17

         =Ath= p51 Ja ‘17 80w

  “Mr Stacpoole is as picturesque as his theme, as vigorous as the time
  he depicts, as romantic as his hero. We get a clear view of the
  fifteenth century in France from his pages, and as complete an
  understanding of Villon as is possible in the circumstances. If Villon
  still seems mythical when we close Mr Stacpoole’s book, it is because
  he will remain a character who is all the more appealing because of
  the glamour of romance that enshrouds him.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Mr 3 ‘17 1000w

  “However much Mr Stacpoole may take from the French biographers in
  facts, the able criticisms are his own. ... Mr Stacpoole shows good
  critical taste in his estimate of the worth of the various ballads,
  and he includes good poetic translations of most of them, as well as
  free prose renderings of the legacies.” Nellie Poorman

 *     + =Dial= 62:307 Ap 5 ‘17 1300w

  “Interest is added to Mr Stacpoole’s book by a series of very
  satisfying verse translations of some of Villon’s less-known poems.”

       + =Nation= 105:45 Jl 12 ‘17 270w

       + =N Y Times= 22:78 Mr 4 ‘17 300w

  “This book tells us nothing save that Mr Stacpoole admires Villon in
  so far as he understands him, but that he does not understand very
  much. Mr Stacpoole had the opportunity of performing a valuable
  service. He might have translated M. Champion’s volumes, and so given
  a work of profound scholarship and exquisite taste the larger public
  which it deserves. ... Mr Stacpoole would, we suppose, say that his
  book was not written for those who already knew Villon—that it was, in
  fact, ‘un oeuvre de vulgarisation.’ If so, it was superfluous.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p29 Ja 18 ‘17 750w


=STACPOOLE, HENRY DE VERE.= Sea plunder. *$1.30 (2½c) Lane 17-11465

  Moral questions do not trouble Captain Blood and his friend Billy
  Harman. If the two German owners of the vessel Captain Blood commands
  want to cut a Pacific cable, that is their responsibility, not his.
  What the object of these two plotters really was is never learned, for
  the first message intercepted on the cut cable tells them that England
  and Germany are at war. As a matter of fact, they are not. This was
  one of the false alarms that preceded the real one of 1914. But for
  all that the message changed the course of this story. The second
  adventure of the book has to do with a wrecked Chinese ship, said to
  be carrying twenty thousand dollars in gold; the third takes the two
  adventurers back to the South seas.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:452 Jl ‘17

       + =Dial= 62:444 My 17 ‘17 90w

  “We do not know, now that Jack London is gone, where to match Mr
  Stacpoole’s absolutely simple, straightforward, and forcible way of
  telling a story of outlandish adventure.”

       + =Nation= 104:633 My 24 ‘17 250w

  “A better group of sea yarns, or of yarns better told would be hard to
  find. ... Along with the wisdom of his seafaring men Mr Stacpoole
  drops bits of his own, notably his accurate characterization of the
  attitude of Ireland toward England.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:195 My 20 ‘17 450w

  “Mr Stacpoole’s gift for telling a racy, thrilling adventure story is
  well established, and this product of his pen sustains his
  reputation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 29 ‘17 350w


=STANARD, MARY MANN PAGE (NEWTON) (MRS WILLIAM GLOVER STANARD).=
Colonial Virginia: its people and customs. il *$6 Lippincott 975.5
17-30734

  “Historical and genealogical in character, this work is based
  neither upon history-books nor tradition, but upon sources that are
  not accessible to the ordinary reader—old diaries, old newspapers,
  and letters, shop-bills and inventories, and other documents
  throwing light on the personal and social life of the Virginians in
  colonial days. ... Mrs Stanard describes the relations between old
  Virginia and the mother country and the intricacies of Virginia
  class-relationships, and throws light upon hundreds of genealogical
  questions that have hitherto been in dispute.”—Lit D

  “The labor of preparing so exhaustive a work as this must have been
  very great, and the author is to be commended for the excellent manner
  in which the interest is maintained to the very last.” E. J. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 N 24 ‘17 1300w

  “Altogether the book is one that will appeal to every one who is
  curious about our historic past. The ways of our forebears and the
  interest of the book are heightened by the large number of
  illustrations it contains.”

       + =Lit D= 55:51 D 8 ‘17 150w

  “This is a handsome, well-illustrated, well-planned, and comprehensive
  volume.”

       + =Outlook= 117:615 D 12 ‘17 50w

  “Mrs Stanard is known as an enthusiastic student of the Old dominion’s
  archives, and is the wife of William G. Stanard, secretary of the
  Virginia Historical society and editor of the Virginia Magazine of
  History and Biography.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:103 Ja ‘18 170w

  “Although perhaps the book contains little that is new, it brings
  scattered material together in graphic compilation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 200w


=STANLEY, ELEANOR JULIAN (MRS JAMES LONG).= Twenty years at court. il
*$4.50 Scribner (Eng ed 17-21843)

  Eleanor Stanley, whose private letters are here collected by Mrs
  Steuart Erskine, was maid of honor to Queen Victoria from 1842 to
  1862. “A very few letters have been put into the book which are not by
  Miss Stanley.” (Spec)

  “Perhaps nothing could better witness the fascination of these letters
  and wide appeal than the fact that a second edition has so quickly
  followed their publication a year ago. ... Clearest of all the
  pictures she presents are those of the simple home life of the English
  royal family.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Jl 21 ‘17 180w

  “No one, we think, will read them without enjoyment—it is difficult to
  say why. ‘It went off pretty flat,’ said Fanny Burney describing an
  evening spent in the Georgian court circle. Most evenings at the early
  Victorian court might be said, by these accounts, to have gone off
  very flat indeed, and yet Miss Eleanor Stanley makes us want to hear
  about them.”

 *     + =Spec= 118:18 Ja 6 ‘17 2100w

  “Sprightly, revealing and readable. ... In her pictures of people in
  the spheres of court and diplomacy there is much covert sarcasm. ...
  As Miss Stanley grows older she discloses a greater interest in
  politics, and her notes on political events generally get to the nub
  of the matter with few wasted words.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 850w

  “Miss Stanley’s letters are authentic. ... On the whole the editing is
  well done, with a number of useful little footnotes giving the names,
  titles, and dates of the numerous great people who are mentioned. The
  reader, however, may justly complain of the want of an index; of the
  want of any reference, or of anything more than the merest hint, with
  regard to many of the great events of the time; and of the absence of
  the necessary few words of explanation which would have rendered
  intelligible certain letters that the ordinary reader of to-day cannot
  fully understand. ... As a historical document the book is
  disappointing.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p634 D 28 ‘16 980w


=STANTON, STEPHEN BERRIEN.= Hidden happiness. *$1.25 (4c) Scribner 170.4
17-7478

  The short essays of this volume have something of an Emersonian
  flavor. “Remember, all is law. It governs every little act of
  life—every success, every failure. Things happen according to
  principles which we can put ourselves in accord with and win, or go
  counter to and lose. Control then thy destiny by obedience to them. I
  have no wish other than that of the universe—why should I?” This
  quotation indicates very fairly the author’s attitude. He writes of:
  Joy’s neutrality; Ambition; The eternal bulwarks; Influence; Pros and
  cons of companionship; The trumpet of to-day; The marrow of existence;
  Ultimate economy; Letter and spirit, etc.

  “The volume bristles with sane and sensible advice, with fine bits of
  figurative writing and with unforgettable epigrams.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 27 ‘17 250w

  “Aphorisms for sane and cheerful living. There is nothing original in
  Mr Stanton’s optimism or in his advice. But he states his confession
  of faith in the clearest and most vigorous terms.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:335 S 9 ‘17 470w

       + =Outlook= 115:760 Ap 25 ‘17 130w


=STEEL, MRS FLORA ANNIE (WEBSTER).= Marmaduke. *$1.40 (1½c) Stokes (Eng
ed 17-26885)

  The scene of this melodramatic tale is laid in Scotland and the Crimea
  in the “forties” and “fifties.” The leading characters are “the
  sardonic old rake, Lord Drummuir, who marries a ballet-dancer and
  reduces her to respectability, who keeps his children in perpetual
  tremors by his evil temper; his gallant soldier son, the Hon.
  Marmaduke Muir, always hard up and always trying to get money out of
  the old man; Marrion Paul, a girl of noble mind but supposed humble
  origin, who loves Marmaduke from childhood and becomes his guardian
  angel, and the faithful soldier-servant of the hero, who cherishes a
  hopeless passion for the heroine and talks broad Scotch with mildly
  comical effect. ... The book includes a fire, a battle, a shipwreck,
  two sensational escapes from drowning, a frustrated elopement, a
  carriage accident, and a house of shame.” (Sat R)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:133 Ja ‘18

  “A very improbable and old-fashioned, but not altogether
  unentertaining novel.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:484 N 18 ‘17 270w

         =Outlook= 117:510 N 28 ‘17 40w

  “Her first-hand knowledge of an eastern country, and a talent for
  describing men and places, give to such books as ‘On the face of the
  waters’ an interest which will outlast the author’s life. But
  ‘Marmaduke,’ is in a different category, being outside the sphere of
  personal experience. ... The habit, inveterate in both hero and
  heroine, of diving into seas and rivers from high places when they get
  the chance, with other features of this book, suggests the
  cinematograph.”

     – + =Sat R= 124:30 Jl 14 ‘17 640w

  “The story is not only Victorian in its setting, but its treatment
  recalls at times the exuberant sentiment of Smedley and the author of
  ‘Guy Livingstone.’”

     + — =Spec= 119:15 Jl 7 ‘17 500w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 420w

  “It is a tale that engages the interest, in spite of much inaccuracy,
  much infelicity, much worn coin in Mrs Steel’s English prose.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p310 Je 28 ‘17 300w


=STEELE, DAVID MCCONNELL.= Going abroad overland; studies of places and
people in the far West. il *$1.50 (3½ c) Putnam 917.8 17-5855

  This book of travel is based on three journeys across the North
  American continent and back. The author, a Philadelphia clergyman, has
  written it “to acquaint the denizens of eastern districts with their
  neighbors, far removed but close allied, their fellow-citizens of the
  Far West.” Contents: Going abroad overland; Following the setting sun;
  The city of the holy faith; Grand Canyon, the Titan of chasms; A
  Sunday at Lake Tahoe; The city without a soul; In the land of the
  Dakotas; A week in Glacier national park, etc.

  “Superior to the ordinary because of its keen observations, its
  accurate facts, its delightful style and its subtle humor.” G. F.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 24 ‘17 750w

  “Part of the book appeared in weekly instalments in the Philadelphia
  press.”

       + =Cleveland= p98 Jl ‘17 50w

  “Unique among such volumes as have yet appeared of American travel
  articles. Each chapter describes a scene or city, the whole
  illustrated by many photogravures. Readers are shown that they can
  really travel, can see and know and feel places and people foreign to
  their previous experience—all without leaving North America.”

       + =Ind= 90:439 Je 2 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:30 F ‘17

  “Not essential to small libraries but readable.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:123 Ap ‘17 80w


=STEINER, BERNARD CHRISTIAN.= Life of Henry Winter Davis. $1.50 Murphy,
J: 16-14479

  “Henry Winter Davis (1817-1865) is the last of the great congressional
  leaders of the Civil war period to find a biographer. ... The first
  three chapters, which are autobiographical, give an interesting
  picture of Davis’s boyhood and his life as a student at Kenyon college
  and at the University of Virginia. Dr Steiner himself covers the
  period from 1840 to 1865, treating in detail the various stages in his
  hero’s political career, as a Whig, a Know Nothing, a Constitutional
  Unionist and a Republican. New light is thrown upon a number of
  questions, especially upon the so-called Wade-Davis bill and the
  Wade-Davis manifesto, both of which, as Dr Steiner shows, were
  primarily the work of Davis and should more properly be described by
  the term Davis-Wade.”—Am Pol Sci R

  “Should let in a strong light on some of the darkest places of
  politics in Maryland.” W: A. Dunning

         =Am Hist R= 22:417 Ja ‘17 700w

  “Dr Steiner’s book is extremely sympathetic. In fact, if there is any
  fault to be found at all, it would be that it is too sympathetic, or,
  in other words, that it is not sufficiently critical. ... When we
  consider, however, that the unfavorable aspects of Davis’s career have
  been fully represented by Nicolay and Hay, Gideon Welles, and others,
  we ought perhaps, after all, to be grateful for this excellent plea
  for the defense. ... All students of the Civil war and reconstruction
  will welcome the scholarly addition to the growing literature of that
  period.” W. R. Smith

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:167 F ‘17 550w

       + =Bul of Bibliography= 9:87 O ‘16 150w


=STEINER, EDWARD ALFRED.= My doctor dog. il *50c Revell 18-1116

  “Over in the Carpathian mountains where Prof. Edward A. Steiner began
  his remarkable career, there is a strong belief among the peasants
  that certain dogs have the power of effecting cures where learned
  doctors are helpless. Dr Steiner—only he wasn’t wearing any title
  then, but was just a little curly-headed Hebrew lad—had such a dog.
  Perhaps he had forgotten it, or had overlooked its literary
  possibilities, until one day in a college settlement hospital in a
  city in America he came upon the same superstition, and it called up
  old memories. That evening around the fire-place in the college social
  room he told the story to the girls. Now he has told it again in book
  form as a tale within a tale.”—Springf’d Republican

  “When the author forgets himself and his intrusive audience he gives a
  picture of the dirty, beautiful, simple village and its peasant
  population which is as engaging as it is convincing. But the frame of
  this picture is as distracting as it is foolishly ornate. After all,
  the story is the thing and not the story-teller’s sentimental
  associations or his ethical convictions.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:500 N 25 ‘17 180w

  “Lovers of dogs and of dog stories will make a mistake if they do not
  read this little volume.”

       + =Outlook= 117:432 N 14 ‘17 50w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 230w


=STEINER, JESSE FREDERICK.= Japanese invasion; a study in the psychology
of interracial contacts. *$1.25 McClurg 325.7 17-7214

  In his introduction Robert E. Park of the University of Chicago says,
  “This book is an attempt to study the phenomenon of race prejudice and
  national egotism, so far as it reveals itself in the relations of the
  Japanese and the Americans in this country, and to estimate the role
  it is likely to play in the future relations of the two countries. So
  far as I know, an investigation of precisely this nature has not
  hitherto been made.” The author, who spent seven years in Japan as a
  teacher in a mission college, writes of: Our first acquaintance with
  the Japanese; The Japanese attitude toward the West; The closing of
  the open door; The problem from the Japanese viewpoint; The Japanese
  “menace”; The isolation of Japanese in America; The reaction of the
  Japanese to American economic conditions; Organization and solidarity
  of Japanese immigrants; The problem of intermarriage; The Japanese in
  America as a race problem; The world significance of waking Asia.
  There is a bibliography of representative books and articles, followed
  by an index.

  “This book is a very valuable contribution to the means for correctly
  estimating the present American-Japanese situation. The author
  displays a thorough knowledge of his subject and much skill and
  judgment in his handling of it.” H: P. Fairchild

       + =Am J Soc= 23:548 Ja ‘18 350w

  “The work is well documented and has a fairly complete bibliography
  (14p.).”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:378 Je ‘17

  “The most valuable portions of Mr Steiner’s book are chapters
  discussing the attitude in various sections of the United States
  toward Japanese residents, the reaction of the Japanese to American
  economic conditions, the organization and solidarity of Japanese
  immigrants, and the problem of intermarriage.” F: A. Ogg

         =Dial= 62:430 My 17 ‘17 1300w

  “His treatment of the Californian situation is characteristic. He does
  not blame this government, state or national; he is interested in
  tracing and diagnosing a condition. He discusses the Japanese as human
  beings; not as the menacing abstractions which plague Californian
  imaginations. The last chapter, The significance of waking Asia, is a
  forceful and fitting close to an extraordinarily suggestive book.”

       + =Nation= 105:517 N 8 ‘17 540w

         =New Repub= 11:117 My 26 ‘17 190w

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 300w

  “Sober, restrained, informing, useful.” H: R. Mussey

       + =Survey= 39:47 O 13 ‘17 870w


=STEINMETZ, CHARLES PROTEUS.=[2] America and the new epoch. *$1 (2c)
Harper 330.9 16-21734

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “Mr Steinmetz, who is by birth and training a German—of
  Prussia—eliminates, both in his historical surveys and in his study of
  America’s present condition and future possibilities, all
  consideration of spiritual forces. He interprets history, and
  therefore of course the present situation in the United States, solely
  in terms of material tendencies, material forces, material results.”
  F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 45:180 Ap ‘17 450w

  “Dr Steinmetz has that rare and suggestive vision of the Socialist who
  is at the same time a great inventive engineer and an active officer
  in one of our most advanced and successful industrial corporations. He
  is personally engaged in fashioning the corporation out of which he
  hopes the industrial state will be built. His socialism might be
  called a ‘corporation syndicalism,’ for what he outlines is a union of
  huge corporations into whose hands will be entrusted the productive
  work of the nation.” R. S. Bourne

       + =Dial= 62:134 F 22 ‘17 440w

         =Ind= 90:85 Ap 7 ‘17 180w

  “The economic interpretation of history is pressed to its uttermost
  limits. Along with much that is bizarre, the book contains
  illuminating passages. The author is at his worst when he deals in
  historical generalizations, but when he touches more concrete matters
  he is not infrequently acute and penetrating.”

     + — =Nation= 104:557 My 3 ‘17 310w

  “A book that ought to command the most serious study and thought of
  every economist in America.” C. M. W.

       + =N Y Call= p15 Mr 18 ‘17 620w

  “The book gains no little of its large value from this quality of
  personal testimony by a qualified observer who has experienced both
  systems. As such he has taken and presents a bird’s-eye view of world
  industries, and speaks industrially where all others are speaking in
  terms of politics, war, and diplomacy. It is a stimulating volume
  presenting points of view which ought not to be so novel.”

       + =N Y Times= 21:574 D 31 ‘16 800w


=STEINMETZ, CHARLES PROTEUS.= Theory and calculation of electric
circuits. il *$3 McGraw 621.31 17-9822

  “Doctor Steinmetz is America’s best known authority in the field of
  electrical mathematics. In revising his well known ‘Alternating
  current phenomena’ for the fifth edition, the great increase in size
  made it necessary to divide the work into three parts, of which the
  present work is the second. ‘In the following volume I have discussed
  the most important characteristics of the fundamental conception of
  electrical engineering, such as electric conduction, magnetism, wave
  shape, the meaning of reactance and similar terms, the problems of
  stability and instability of electric systems, etc., and have given a
  more extended application of the method of complex quantities, which
  the experience of these twenty years has shown to be the most powerful
  tool in dealing with alternating current phenomena.’ (Preface)”—N Y P
  L New Tech Bks

         =Bul N Y Public Library= 21:484 Jl ‘17 100w

  “An authoritative treatise.”

       + =Cleveland= p109 S ‘17 40w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:76 My ‘17

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p9 Ap ‘17 130w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:659 O ‘17 30w


=STEMPEL, GUIDO HERMANN=, comp. and ed. Book of ballads, old and new.
(English readings for schools) il 60c Holt 821.08 17-13306

  These ballads are grouped under the headings: Old ballads; American
  ballads; New ballads. The four “American ballads” are reprinted from
  Lomax’s “Cowboy songs and other frontier ballads” (1910). The “new
  ballads” range from Campbell, Hood and Lady Nairne, to Kipling,
  Lowell, Masefield, Newbolt, Noyes, Whittier, etc. There is an
  introduction, mainly historical, followed by a “descriptive
  bibliography” of two pages. Appended are 102 pages of “notes and
  comment”; and a glossary.

  “There are fewer of the old ballads, altho much the same ones as those
  chosen by Professor Hart [in his “English popular ballads,” 1916].”

         =Ind= 91:230 Ag 11 ‘17 90w

  “The introduction treats vexed questions of origins fairly and
  clearly. It strikes us as distinctly the best introduction to the
  subject we have seen.”

       + =Nation= 105:263 S 6 ‘17 80w


=STEPHENS, HENRY MORSE, and BOLTON, HERBERT EUGENE=, eds. Pacific ocean
in history. *$4 (3c) Macmillan 904 17-5822

  A volume containing papers and addresses presented at the
  Panama-Pacific historical congress held at San Francisco, Berkeley,
  and Palo Alto, California, July 19-23, 1915. A brief outline of the
  history and plan of the congress is given in the introduction. The
  body of the book is given up wholly to the papers and addresses of the
  general and special sessions. Among the subjects covered at some of
  the special sessions were: The Philippine Islands and their history as
  a part of the history of the Pacific ocean area; The north-western
  states, British Columbia, and Alaska in their relations with the
  Pacific ocean; Spanish-America and the Pacific ocean; Japan and
  Australasia. There is an index that seems to be unusually complete.

  “Among the addresses those by H. Morse Stephens on the Conflict of
  European nations in the Pacific, by Rafael Altamira y Crevea on the
  Share of Spain in the history of the Pacific ocean, and by Theodore
  Roosevelt on the Panama canal are noteworthy. The paper by Professor
  Murakami, on Japan’s early attempts to establish commercial relations
  with Mexico, embodying his investigations in the archives of Spain,
  Italy, and Japan, is perhaps the most interesting of all the
  contributions.” W: R. Shepherd

       + =Am Hist R= 22:846 Jl ‘17 1000w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:55 N ‘17

  “For its condensed summary of historical facts the book should be of
  use to students.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 16 ‘17 70w

  “The student of American history will find these papers of most
  absorbing interest.”

       + =Cath World= 105:399 Je ‘17 190w

  “Much of the book is not of interest to the layman. But this is not
  true of the opening address of Professor Stephens, in which he
  discourses upon the conflict of European nations in the Pacific. His
  wide view of international relations of the past four hundred years
  may well enlarge the horizon of many a casual reader.”

       + =Dial= 63:646 D 20 ‘17 330w

  “Sixteen of the twenty-nine contributions are by Californians—a fact
  which explains both the strength and the weakness of the volume. The
  unfortunate absence of South Americans, of Australians, and of
  Chinese, though some had been expected to appear, deprived the
  Congress and its printed record of any claim to represent the ‘Pacific
  ocean in history.’ Taken singly the average standard of the various
  papers is distinctly commendable.”

     + — =Nation= 105:541 N 15 ‘17 1500w

       + =R of Rs= 56:108 Jl ‘17 120w

         =St Louis= 15:186 Je ‘17

  “A useful service for those interested in world politics has been
  performed in the publication of the minutes and papers of the
  Panama-Pacific historical congress of 1915. ... All the strings of
  world diplomacy meet in the Pacific as they do nowhere else.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 22 ‘17 750w


=STEPHENS, WINIFRED.= Madame Adam (Juliette Lamber); la grande
Française; from Louis Philippe until 1917. il *$4 Dutton (Eng ed
18-1178)

  “The founder and editor for twenty years of La Nouvelle Revue, the
  mistress of a political salon, and the friend through more than half a
  century of leaders of French life and thought, a passionate advocate
  of self-government and of nationalism, Madame Adam is one of the most
  notable women of the Europe of to-day. She is here presented to us by
  one who has written and lectured a good deal about France and French
  history, and who has had the advantage of Mme Adam’s personal
  acquaintance and interest in the present work. Her main authority,
  however, is, of course, Mme Adam’s seven volumes of ‘Souvenirs.’”—The
  Times [London] Lit Sup

  “Of great interest, and particularly well worth reading at the present
  time.”

       + =Ath= p473 S ‘17 100w

         =Outlook= 117:652 D 19 ‘17 120w

  “A most comprehensive account of her varied and spectacular career.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:200 F ‘18 520w

  “It was Madame Adam who first suggested and later engineered her
  country’s alliance with Russia.”

 *       =Sat R= 124:68 Jl 28 ‘17 1350w

  “We are glad to see this interesting biography of Mme Adam, one of the
  most remarkable women of her time. She has played a considerable part
  in French journalism and politics from the days of the Second empire.
  She was the trusted friend of George Sand and Gambetta and many other
  eminent people, and she has been a protagonist of the woman’s movement
  in its largest sense, and of the Revanche for 1870, which is now at
  last to be realized. As founder and editor for twenty years of the
  Nouvelle Revue (1879-99), she did much to consolidate the Third
  republic and to stimulate that wonderful revival of French national
  spirit which has been manifested in this war.”

 *     + =Spec= 119:142 Ag 11 ‘17 1500w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p322 Jl 5 ‘17 110w

  “Mme Adam’s own ‘Souvenirs’ end with the year 1880, and though they
  stand as the main authority Miss Stephens’s book is primarily valuable
  as filling up the gap of nearly forty years; and here the author has
  had important aid from Mme Adam herself, from Sir Sidney Colvin, and
  from other contemporaries. The book is also to be welcomed because it
  is admirably written ... with a gaiety and zest not often to be found
  in such generous measure among biographers.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p329 Jl 12 ‘17 1100w


=STEPNIAK, pseud. (SERGIEI MIKHAILOVICH KRAVCHINSKII).= New convert; a
drama in four acts; tr. from the Russian by T: B. Eyges. $1 Stratford
co. 891.7 17-9135

  A play of the early days of the Russian revolutionary movement. The
  author, says Prince Peter Kropotkin in his introduction, “was one of
  the pioneers who decided to ‘go to the people.’ Disguised as a
  laborer, he mingled among the peasants in the villages. At the
  beginning of the so-called ‘terrorist’ movement he was one of its
  pioneers and heroes.” In the play it is a young girl of good family
  who follows this course. Her father casts her off and disowns her, but
  his love for her is so great that when he finds her in danger, he
  takes her into his house and tries to shield her. In so doing he is
  himself won over to the Nihilist cause, becoming the new convert.

  “It is unfortunate that the translation abounds in foreign English and
  in all kinds of blunders. With a modicum of proper editing, it would
  be a very actable and interesting play.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 30 ‘17 300w

  “It is well worth reading at this time as a first-hand document of the
  pioneer labor for Russian liberty. But, if the truth must be told, it
  is not likely that this play will add to Stepniak’s literary
  reputation. ... Yet there is much beauty in the play, a warm sympathy
  pervades the whole and that big simplicity which emanates from all of
  Russia’s great men. An hour with ‘The new convert’ will be well
  spent.” T: Seltzer

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Ap 15 ‘17 470w

         =R of Rs= 56:102 Jl ‘17 80w


=STERN, MRS ELIZABETH GERTRUDE (LEVIN).= My mother and I. *$1 (4c)
Macmillan 17-16442

  A story of the Americanizing of a young Jewess, whose father, a rabbi,
  and whose self-sacrificing little mother, came from a small town in
  Russian Poland to the ghetto of a city in the Middle West. The one
  cellar room which was their first home, the girl’s days in the grammar
  and high school, her discovery of “Little women” in a rag shop, and
  later of the public library, are simply but vividly pictured. She wins
  a scholarship and works her way through college, only to find life in
  the ghetto insupportable; and to leave home to study settlement work
  in New York. There she meets her husband, and after the birth of their
  son, the old mother takes her first long trip in 25 years to see her
  daughter as “an American woman at the head of an American home” and to
  experience “an infinite loneliness” because she cannot understand the
  new ways and the new people. “And yet,” writes the daughter, “if I am
  truly part of America, it was mother, she who does not understand
  America, who made me so.” The introduction is by Theodore Roosevelt.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:24 O ‘17

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 45:649 Ag ‘17 440w

  “The remarkable charm of the book lies in the daughter’s faithful
  picture of the mother and in her appreciation of what the
  Americanization of the foreign-born means in pain and separation.”

       + =Cleveland= p100 Jl ‘17 90w

  “Describes the loftier and rarer aspect of immigration.”

       + =Dial= 63:402 O 25 ‘17 90w

       + =Ind= 91:351 S 1 ‘17 240w

  “What affects one just a little unpleasantly is the predominance of
  pride over tears in the countenance of the narrator as she shakes from
  her feet the dust of her father’s house and goes to dwell forevermore
  in the tents of the Americans. The completeness of her break with the
  ghetto left some precious things behind.”

     – + =Nation= 105:224 Ag 30 ‘17 880w

  “The note struck in Mrs Stern’s book appears to be a more sincere one
  than that sounded by Miss Antin, because, though the narrative is a
  personal one, the reader is not oppressed by the ego of the writer.”
  M. G. S.

       + =N Y Call= p15 S 9 ‘17 280w

  “The book is well worth while. Not only because of the picture it
  gives of the Americanized second generation, ... but also because of
  the excellent style. ... The best thing in the book is the beautifully
  tender portrayal of the relation between the mother and daughter, a
  relation which is at once an idyl and a tragedy.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:255 Jl 8 ‘17 600w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:744 N ‘17 50w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 10 ‘17 350w

  “Perhaps an even more useful service of the book will be to open some
  blind young eyes to the true worth and value of their parents.” K. H.
  Claghorn

       + =Survey= 39:48 O 13 ‘17 330w


=STERN, FRANCES, and SPITZ, GERTRUDE T.= Food for the worker. *$1
Whitcomb & B. 613.2 17-13100

  This book is devoted to the problem of how to provide sufficient
  nutritious food at a low cost. The authors say, “Our contribution
  towards answering the question is this series of menus, with food
  values and costs for a period of seven weeks.” The book is not adapted
  for use by the average untrained housewife in the type of family for
  which the menus are planned. It will be most useful in the hands of
  the visiting housekeeper or other social worker. In fact its
  preparation is due in part to the experience of one of the authors as
  a visiting housekeeper. Lafayette B. Mendel of Sheffield scientific
  school has written a foreword commending the book.

  “Practical, usable, intelligently planned, for the aid of housewives
  catering on a working man’s income, and useful to the teacher,
  visiting housekeeper or social worker. Reprints ‘How to build a
  fireless cooker’ from Form 776 States relations service. Bibliography.
  (2p.).”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:12 O ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p20 F ‘18 20w

       + =Pratt= p26 O ‘17 20w

  “Should fill a great need at the present time.” Graham Lusk

       + =Science= n s 46:18 Jl 6 ‘17 170w

  “A direct contribution to the literature of both social service and
  home economics. Presents in small compass clear and scientific
  material that will be invaluable for anyone who is responsible for the
  feeding of families who through force of circumstances must keep to a
  limited food allowance. ... A book for the trained worker, but the
  untrained may find in it much to shed light upon their pathways.” W.
  S. Gibbs

       + =Survey= 38:373 Jl 28 ‘17 180w


=STERNE, ELAINE.= Road of ambition. il *$1.35 (1c) Britton pub. 17-13078

  Big Bill Matthews is foreman in a steel mill when the story opens. He
  is a newly elected governor at its close. But unlike many another man
  who has trod the road to ambition, he does not find achievement
  bitter, for Bill’s aim is always to help his fellow men, and his way
  is made bright by the love of the woman who had been the lady of his
  early dreams. When he first saw Daphne Van Steer, he had no thought of
  anything but worship from afar. Then came the success of his
  invention, his fortune, his education in the ways of the world at the
  hands of May Larrabee, and eventually his marriage with Daphne. For
  her it was not a marriage of love, in the beginning—that came later.

  “Just the book for the reader who likes a story with plenty of thrills
  and a happy ending.”

       + =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 50w

  “Elaine Sterne has written the sort of story which we are glad to have
  from an American novelist. Such a story could have been written more
  effectively by a man, but one is willing to pass over certain
  feminisms in the discussion of business for the sake of the story
  itself, which is engrossing.”

     + — =Dial= 63:280 S 27 ‘17 200w

  “A first novel, and a promising one. It is ambitious, faulty, of
  course, but interesting, with some well written, natural dialogue, and
  a dramatic quality which, as often happens in the work of novices—and
  of experienced writers, too—occasionally spills over the line which
  separates the dramatic from the merely melodramatic. The opening
  chapters are the best.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:195 My 20 ‘17 350w

  Reviewed by R. D. Moore

         =Pub W= 91:1318 Ap 21 ‘17 370w


=STERRETT, FRANCES ROBERTA.= William and Williamina. il *$1.40 (2c)
Appleton 17-25816

  The heroine of this story, Williamina, a friendly little girl of ten,
  was found when a baby, by William Kirwin, in a rowboat, after a
  dreadful storm. Kirwin had gone to live in the country because of weak
  lungs, and, even when cured, seemed to have no desire to mix again
  with people. Williamina filled his life and he filled Williamina’s.
  Yet it was partly due to her that he finally returned to a busier and
  more conventional existence. Some of the other characters are: Helen
  Spafford, a school-teacher, who wants to try gardening; Mrs Macartney,
  who runs a chicken farm; Marietta White, who overworked at college and
  is taking an enforced rest; Imogene Grace Butters, the stout trained
  nurse; Mr Brewer, who has no use for “fool females”; Bob Brown, who is
  hurt in an automobile accident; Hunter Olney, the rich breakfast food
  man; and tall young Doctor Grey with his “shock of sandy hair.” There
  are three rather slight love affairs in the book, but the main
  interest centers in Williamina, who wishes that she and William
  “should always love each other and really belong to each other and
  live together happily forever and a day.”

  “Williamina is amusing at times, and not quite so aggressively
  virtuous as some children in fiction.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:484 N 18 ‘17 250w


=STETSON, JAMES FRANCIS LYNDE, and others.= Some legal phases of
corporate financing, reorganization and regulation. *$2.75 Macmillan
338.8 17-7837

  “A volume of addresses delivered in 1916 by recognized leaders of the
  legal profession at the instance of the Association of the bar of the
  city of New York, to audiences drawn from practicing lawyers. Mr
  Stetson contributes a lengthy paper concerning the preparation of
  corporate bonds, mortgages, collateral trusts and debenture
  indentures. ... Mr Byrne supplies an exceptionally valuable treatise
  on the foreclosure of railroad mortgages in the United States
  courts. ... Mr Cravath treats of the reorganization of corporations;
  bondholders’ and stockholders’ protective committees; reorganization
  committees; and the voluntary recapitalization of corporations. ... Mr
  Wickersham deals with the Sherman anti-trust law. ... Mr Montague
  writes about the Federal trade commission and the Clayton act. Mr
  Coleman and Mr Guthrie discuss the public service commissions.”—Ann Am
  Acad

  “It deals with particular problems in the peculiarly narrow and
  intensive manner of legal procedure. This is its great merit, but it
  is also the reason why the broader economic aspects of the problems
  treated are either totally disregarded or else disposed of with only a
  few phrases. Yet within their field of legal literature most of these
  essays are remarkably comprehensive; in fact, several of them, notably
  Cravath’s on reorganizations, are certainly unrivaled in the sphere of
  legal finance.” A. S. Dewing

       + =Am Econ R= 7:645 S ‘17 1150w

  “If the volume contained nothing but Mr Byrne’s treatise, it would
  still be an important addition to legal literature.” J: L. Sullivan

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:231 Jl ‘17 250w

         =Cleveland= p92 Jl ‘17 30w

  “Although stated to be designed primarily for the practical guidance
  of practicing lawyers, [these addresses] will be of interest and value
  to students of corporation problems, the trust problem, and public
  utilities. The three on corporation problems are by far the most
  interesting to the economist. With the exception of the last address
  on public utilities, the other addresses tend to be mainly
  descriptive, with little analysis.”

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:756 Jl ‘17 500w

  “If ‘a priori’ reasoning is a peculiar weakness of lawyers, there is
  no trace of it in the legal field ploughed through in the first three
  essays. The practical corporation lawyer ... begins with a very
  concrete picture of the result he wishes to attain. He draws upon a
  wide practical experience to point out the simplest and surest way of
  bringing the result about. Very different is the situation in the
  field of public law described in the remaining four essays. Here we
  are not yet out of the domain of dogma, of question-begging phrases,
  of concepts that bear the appearance of self-evident truths, but
  dissolve into meaningless verbiage when we try to apply them to flesh
  and blood.” G. C. Henderson

         =New Repub= 11:192 Je 16 ‘17 1350w


=STEVENS, RUTH DAVIS, and STEVENS, DAVID HARRISON=,[2] eds. American
patriotic prose and verse. *$1.25 McClurg 811.08 17-28105

  The selections in this book are arranged chronologically to conform
  with the history of our country. In addition to this strictly
  historical material, selections suitable for the patriotic holidays
  are included. Each selection is accompanied by a brief note, giving
  biographical and other data.

  “Chiefly valuable for its timeliness, and while it is not without
  certain historical examples of the kind, it would have been more
  suitable if chosen with greater care and judgment.” W. S. B.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p9 D 5 ‘17 40w

         =Cleveland= p134 D ‘17 40w


=STEVENS, WILLIAM HARRISON SPRING.= Unfair competition; a study of
certain practices, with some reference to the trust problem in the
United States of America. *$1.50 Univ. of Chicago press 338.8 17-9697

  “‘Unfair competition’ is an expansion of the author’s two articles
  which originally appeared in the Political Science Quarterly for 1914.
  The new matter consists chiefly of added illustrations of cases of the
  different methods of unfair competition, the listing of a new heading
  called ‘Interference,’ and the expansion of the conclusion, where
  especial attention is given to the trust legislation of 1914 as it
  relates to this subject.” (J Pol Econ) “The text analyzes many types
  of unfair competition and gives the concrete and specific facts, as
  well as the principles involved. It is a valuable companion volume for
  the compilation by Davies.” (Int J Ethics)

  “The chapter on ‘Exclusive arrangements’ is, in the writer’s opinion,
  the weakest chapter of the book, as these arrangements, while
  classified and considered separately, are adjudged equally
  objectionable. The book is replete with illustrations, is written in
  an interesting style, and will be welcomed by all interested in this
  important subject.” J. E. Hagerty

     + — =Am J Soc= 23:274 S ‘17 570w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:114 Ja ‘18

  “Dr Stevens has done a real public service by placing in convenient
  form an assembly of facts on this problem. The tone of the book is not
  that of an arraignment or accusation. The author shows neither
  indignation nor heat—he seeks in guarded language to establish the
  facts.” J. T. Young

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:783 N ‘17 450w

  “It is patent that Stevens is not a proponent of large industrial
  combinations simply because they are large, and he carries the
  convictions of one who has investigated carefully the methods by
  which, fortunately or unfortunately, big business has grown. The
  logical soundness of some of his assertions is tinged by a
  super-vigilant search for recondite motives on the part of business;
  but he is not unfair.” Frank Parker

       + =Ann Am Acad= 74:295 N ‘17 350w

       + =Ind= 91:133 Jl 28 ‘17 160w

       + =Int J Ethics= 27:534 Jl ‘17 50w

  “The volume is sound and timely and is the best presentation of the
  topic available. While the conclusions of Dr Stevens appear sound,
  additional weight would have been given them had he tried to set forth
  and refute in more detail the arguments sometimes advanced to justify
  the various methods of competition which he condemns.” C. W. Wright

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:629 Je ‘17 250w

         =Pratt= p12 O ‘17 20w

         =St Louis= 15:321 S ‘17 20w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 F 11 ‘18 300w


=STEVENSON, BURTON EGBERT.= King in Babylon. il *$1.50 (2c) Small
17-24692

  “The story concerns a moving-picture producer and his determination to
  introduce imagination and art into his work. ... He built a plot about
  Henley’s lines, ‘I was a king in Babylon and you were a Christian
  slave.’ The production carried him and his company to Egypt, where a
  suitable setting was found in a royal tomb practically excavated by an
  American archaeologist. It is at this point that the seemingly
  supernatural enters the tale, giving an extraordinarily weird and
  gripping turn to the story.”—Dial

  “The events are thrilling and well suggested, only the final act seems
  unreal.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:134 Ja ‘18

  “The author provides a rational explanation which is skillfully but
  not altogether convincingly worked out.”

     + — =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 80w

  “A thrilling story with a groundwork of common sense!... Instead of
  yielding to the easy trick of invoking the supernatural in order to
  gain his effect, the author skilfully erects a framework of logical
  explanation on which one may stand and enjoy the spectacular climax
  without danger of doing his intelligence injury.”

       + =Dial= 63:281 S 27 ‘17 180w

  “Some readers may think the story rather long-drawn-out and tedious
  here and there. But it has the merit of originality in its treatment,
  if not in its main theme of reincarnation, and in general is of the
  thrilling stuff of which ‘best sellers’ are made.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:447 N 4 ‘17 610w

       + =Outlook= 117:184 O 3 ‘17 30w

  “Appeared in McClure’s Magazine, v. 49, May-Oct. 1917.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:751 N ‘17 20w

  “But the air of mystery and suspense surrounding the reincarnation
  theory is sustained until the very close, where a wholly plausible
  clue brings us breathlessly but safely back to sunlight on
  terra-firma.” Joseph Mosher

       + =Pub W= 92:2027 D 8 ‘17 280w

  “Cleverly exploits the theory of reincarnation and blends the
  materialistic present with the mysteries and superstitions of
  antiquity.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 7 ‘17 300w


=STEVENSON, GEORGE.= Little world apart. *$1.25 (1c) Lane 17-7457

  A novel made up of little things. Applethwaite is a country parish
  that constitutes a little world in itself. The great lady of the
  neighborhood, the vicar and his family, the farm folk and the serving
  maids all have a place in the story, so that at its close one feels
  very well acquainted with all Applethwaite. Into this little world
  comes a strange woman from the world outside to make friends with the
  vicar’s family and start tongues a-wagging. In its ending there is a
  touch of sadness, but the sadness is tinged with hope. Victoria is
  queen at the time of the story.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:171 F ‘18

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 3 ‘17 170w

  “One does not read of Applethwaite for the sake of its plot or plots,
  but for the sheer joy of tarrying and gossiping there. Like ‘Cranford’
  and ‘Old Chester tales,’ ‘A little world apart’ is ‘rich in veined
  humanity.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:126 Ap 8 ‘17 450w

  “A most delightful account of life in a country village in,
  presumably, the ‘eighties’ of the last century. The character drawing
  is most delicately finished, and the author has a fresh and
  discriminating sense of humor.”

       + =Spec= 118:210 F 17 ‘17 30w

  “The author has a happy faculty of characterization, and it is to be
  regretted that he did not have a stronger center for his story.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 140w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p56 F 1 ‘17 450w

  “Some very good character portraiture.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:222 Jl ‘17 40w


=STEVENSON, WILLIAM YORKE.= At the front in a flivver. il *$1.25 (2½c)
Houghton 940.91 17-25614

  The preface tells us that the author left a newspaper position in
  Philadelphia in 1916 to offer his services to France as driver of an
  ambulance. “He kept a rough diary which, as the occasion offered, he
  forwarded to his people. ... These notes are here published almost as
  jotted down.” The scene of his experiences was in the neighborhood of
  the Somme.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:90 D ‘17

  “No heroics or exaggeration mar this simple humorous record.”

       + =Cleveland= p1 Ja ‘18 60w

  “Freshly written.”

     + — =Dial= 63:589 D 6 ‘17 300w

       + =N Y Times= 22:453 N 4 ‘17 570w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:827 D ‘17 50w

  “A document the very robustness and downright sincerity of which are a
  real joy to those who honestly want to be made to see.” Philip
  Tillinghast

       + =Pub W= 92:1388 O 20 ‘17 200w

  “A strong vein of humor adds many lightening touches to the narrative.
  But in spite of these there is nowhere a denial of the seriousness of
  the situation confronting the Allies in their fight with the enemy.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 N 30 ‘17 520w


=STEWART, BASIL.= On collecting Japanese colour-prints; being an
introduction to the study and collection of the colour-prints of the
Ukiyoye school of Japan. il *$2 (9c) Dodd 761 17-26875

  The author states that because most books on Japanese prints have
  apparently been written from the historical or artistic point of view,
  they are of little use to the inexperienced collector. He has,
  therefore, written this book primarily for the beginner, and refers
  the reader who wishes fuller information to Ficke’s “Chats on Japanese
  prints” or Von Seidlitz’s “History of Japanese colour-prints.” “Mr
  Stewart gives a brief survey of the history and production of prints,
  mentioning only the better-known artists. In the cases of Hokusai and
  Hiroshige the various series, states, and editions are enumerated.”
  (Dial) “The illustrations are from the author’s collection, and are in
  keeping with the scope of the book. Both the blocks and the text are
  printed in a brown ink.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) There is a
  chapter on Japanese chronology as applied to the dating of prints.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:84 D ‘17

  “It is an artistic book and will prove useful to students.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 24 ‘17 730w

  “‘On collecting Japanese colour-prints’ is intended for the amateur
  who is starting a collection, and as such it is a satisfactory
  handbook.”

       + =Dial= 63:352 O 11 ‘17 120w

  “Will be found especially useful in the detection of forgeries,
  imitations, and reprints. The translations of the script and
  signatures upon the prints illustrated are a praiseworthy feature of
  this volume.”

       + =Int Studio= 63:85 D ‘17 110w

  “Mr Stewart has not anything really new to tell us, though his
  information is usually accurate and his views sound.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p294 Je 21 ‘17 650w


=STILES, PAULINE.= New footprints in old places. il *$2 (2c) Elder 914.5
17-25821

  It is to Italy, and in particular to Rome, where the author spent a
  winter, that the greater part of this book of travels is devoted. Her
  travels date back to 1913 and 1914, August, 1914 bringing them to a
  close. Contents: En route to Rome; First days in our Roman home;
  Rome—The mother of nations; Roman holidays; Rome and a new year; We
  travel in the south; Spring comes to Rome; Last Roman days; We become
  Parisians; Touraine and Belgium; We encounter London; War and England.
  There are eighteen illustrations.

  “Travel books written in diary form are usually avoided by the
  experienced reader; this one, however, is exceptionally well done, and
  is quite charming both in the joyous enthusiasm of its descriptive
  matter and in the well-printed photographic illustration.”

       + =Outlook= 117:519 N 28 ‘17 40w

  “Miss Stiles is a good letter writer, and there is nothing stilted in
  her word pictures of the most familiar places. Add to that fact that
  she saw some places that are not in the beaten track, and had the
  privilege of being a guest in various Roman houses where the mere
  tourist never goes, and the charm of the book is enhanced. Typography,
  illustrations, binding, all combine to make this a travel book above
  the average.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 230w


=STILES, PERCY GOLDTHWAIT.= Human physiology; a text-book for high
schools and colleges. il *$1.50 Saunders 612 16-15031

  “The announcement in the preface, the ‘purpose is to present concisely
  the accepted facts with only a limited description of the experiments
  by which these facts have been established,’ gives an idea of the
  scope and nature of the book. ... Little of historical importance is
  mentioned, the omission being purposeful.”—Science

  “The book before us is an excellent attempt to provide a text-book for
  high schools. But, good as it is as an elementary account of the
  present state of physiological science, it cannot be regarded as
  altogether successful. It is apt to be dull and didactic rather than
  stimulating. ... It would be an improvement if a part of the wealth of
  the book in facts were sacrificed for a more intensive treatment of
  some of them. ... The book is remarkably free from errors.” W. M.
  Bayliss

     + — =Nature= 99:101 Ap 5 ‘17 880w

  “On the whole, the book fulfills its particular purpose better than
  any other with which I am familiar. Writing such a book is a
  particularly difficult task, and the author has succeeded better than
  most. There are many new diagrams of unusual clearness.” F. H. Pike

       + =Science= n s 45:482 My 18 ‘17 670w


=STIMSON, FREDERIC JESUP (J. S. OF DALE, pseud.).= Light of Provence.
*$1.25 Putnam 812 17-14539

  This dramatic poem pictures troubadour life and the French court in
  the thirteenth century. The foreword states that the drama is entirely
  historical, though the character of Douce is partly imaginary and
  Adelais is compounded of Adelaide, Countess of Burlatz and Ermengarde,
  Countess of Narbonne. It also lists the authorities on which the drama
  is based. Mr Stimson seems to have worked over it for sixteen years
  and then kept it by him for twenty-one more before publishing it.

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:108 Jl ‘17

  “The plot traverses troubadour life at its best. ... By far the best
  portion of the play is the best in which troubadour courtly love is
  described. ... Mr Stimson’s diction is always good,—at times it is
  exquisite. ... But the last portion of the poem is too sanguinary to
  harmonize with the opening scenes.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p8 S 14 ‘17 290w

  “‘The light of Provence’ is ‘a dramatic poem,’ not a poetic drama; and
  as for historical accuracy, none but a pedant will demand it when the
  author knows his subject so well as to give the profounder accuracy of
  spirit. That is the great merit of this poem. The author has so
  ‘soaked’ himself in old Provence that, externally, he sees it and
  makes his reader see it as vividly as if it were now before the eyes.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p378 Ag 9 ‘17 870w


=STIMSON, FREDERIC JESUP (J.S. OF DALE, pseud.).= My story; being the
memoirs of Benedict Arnold. il *$2 (1c) Scribner 17-28796

  Author and publisher have given to this book every mark of a genuine
  autobiographical work, yet have made no pretense that it is other than
  a work of fiction. It purports to be the life story of Benedict
  Arnold, written by his own hand, with the purpose of justifying his
  career in the eyes of the British king. Events of his public and
  private life are closely followed. He is represented as a Tory by
  nature, an aristocrat with no understanding of the more democratic
  aims of the revolution. To see the colonies self governing under the
  British king, was from the beginning his ideal, and the alliance with
  the British which has branded him as traitor appears to have been
  partly motivated by a desire to bring about this end.

  “There is artistic mastery in the way in which the bumptious
  assertions of loyalty to ‘my King’ are followed by apparently
  half-unconscious expressions of pride in the achievements of the
  Americans. ... Arnold’s love story is touched upon with a simple
  tenderness that adds to the tragedy of the whole. And the revelation
  of his gradual tempting is a masterly piece of work.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:465 N 11 ‘17 800w

  “Arnold’s nature is admirably portrayed.”

       + =Outlook= 117:514 N 28 ‘17 120w

  “Though presented in the guise of a novel, one of the most important
  as well as most graphic historical books of the year.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 18 ‘17 1300w


=STIRLING, YATES.= Fundamentals of naval service. il *$2 (1c) Lippincott
359 17-13524

  This book “has been prepared to serve as a manual to those of our
  citizens who are interested in the United States navy and who may
  choose to serve their country on the water. ... The great increases in
  the personnel of the navy must be supplied in part from our inland
  states, where the navy and its work is little known; to the citizens
  of those states this book gives in a single volume information on
  naval matters possible to obtain only by the reading of many different
  volumes.” (Preface) The following special chapters have been
  contributed to the volume: The naval aeroplane, by Lieut. Comm. H. C.
  Mustin; Electricity in the navy, by Lieut. Comm. C. S. McDowell; First
  aid and hygiene, by Dr Ralph Walker McDowell.

  “Short bibliographies at the head of the five parts into which the
  book is divided.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:430 Jl ‘17

       + =Ath= p522 O ‘17 360w

  “A comprehensive up-to-date handbook.”

       + =Ind= 90:311 My 19 ‘17 40w

  “Thanks to its clear print and thin Japan paper, ‘Fundamentals of
  naval service,’ despite its 564 pages, is a handy volume. As a piece
  of book work it reflects credit on its publishers. Commander
  Stirling’s facts are beyond question, and may be accepted; his
  opinions are his own. In professional matters they are sound, but we
  cannot always agree with him in those not professional, as, e.g., his
  advocacy of ship subsidies.”

       + =Nation= 105:323 S 20 ‘17 160w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:90 Je ‘17

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p15 Ap ‘17 100w

         =Pratt= p15 O ‘17 50w

  “The same excellent method by which Captain Andrews dealt with
  military affairs in a small volume, recently issued by the Lippincott
  Company, is followed in ‘Fundamentals of naval service,’ brought out
  by the same house.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:668 Je ‘17 80w

  “Read by and published with the approval of the United States navy
  department, in which the author is an officer.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:182 Je ‘17 70w


=STOBART, MABEL ANNIE (BOULTON) (MRS ST CLAIR STOBART).= Flaming sword
in Serbia and elsewhere. il *$1.75 Doran 940.91 (Eng ed 17-19162)

  Mrs Stobart, who had spent four years “on the free veldt of the South
  African Transvaal,” returned to London and offered a Woman’s unit to
  the Belgian Red cross, went to Brussels and was captured, together
  with her husband, by the Germans, and condemned to death. They escaped
  to London, but were back in Belgium in three weeks. “Arriving in
  Antwerp three weeks before the bombardment Mrs Stobart lost all her
  hospital material there, offered her services to the French Red cross,
  established herself at Cherbourg, worked there for four months, and
  then, in February, 1915, resolved to volunteer for Serbia, starting
  from Liverpool on April 1. The unit numbered forty-five. ... Most of
  the book is devoted to this final adventure and its sequel: the
  terrible march over the Albanian mountains to Skutari and the
  sea—‘through snow, ice, boulders, unbroken forest, mud-holes,
  bridgeless rivers.’” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

  “If we had to choose between ‘The Anabasis’ and Mrs Stobart’s ‘Diary
  of the Serbian retreat’ the vote would be preponderatingly in favor of
  the latter, not only as a piece of literature, but as an account of
  difficulties surmounted, of bravery unexcelled, of human agony
  described, of cheerfulness in the most depressing circumstances, of
  adaptability when there would seem to have been almost no escape, of
  feminine practicality that won the admiration of the most sceptical.
  Amid all the literature called forth by the Great war this epic
  account of the Katabasis of the Serbians and of the hospital unit
  conducted by Mrs Stobart will best deserve to be a classic in the
  millenniums to come. ... It is the most telling document against war
  that the war has produced, it shows the horror of it, and it shows the
  futility of it. ... The book sparkles with wit and has amusing
  passages, and it fills one with admiration for its stories of gallant
  deeds of heroism—not in the taking of life, but in saving life.” N. H.
  D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 5 ‘17 1200w

       + =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 90w

  “Her graphic narrative and observations come to us with the weight of
  the best authority.”

       + =Ind= 92:342 N 17 ‘17 130w

  “Much more than the usual narrative of war relief work. Hating war and
  all its methods supremely, she has done not a little thinking about
  it, especially about woman’s relations with it. ... Mrs Stobart was
  the first woman in history to mobilize and command a field hospital in
  war.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:348 S 16 ‘17 400w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:827 D ‘17 70w

  “Mrs St Clair Stobart has written an admirable book.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p636 D 28 ‘16 750w


=STODDARD, CHARLES WARREN.= Poems; collected by Ina Coolbrith. il *$1.25
Lane 811 17-21944

  Miss Coolbrith states in her Foreword that in 1909, at Stoddard’s
  death, she volunteered to edit his poems “inclusive of the volume of
  verse published in 1867,” together with all that had appeared since,
  on the understanding that Mr Stoddard “had himself collected and
  arranged them for this purpose.” No such book was found among his
  effects, and as the files of local magazines and newspapers have been
  largely destroyed in the San Francisco fire of 1906, and no clue
  existed to non-local publications in which they might have appeared,
  Miss Coolbrith’s task has been a long, difficult one. Some of the
  poems in the volume are on the South Seas which Stoddard so loved, and
  some are on California. The book opens with tributes in verse by
  Joaquin Miller, George Sterling, Thomas Walsh, and Ina Coolbrith. The
  frontispiece is a portrait of the author.

  “Forty years ago William Dean Howells said of Charles Warren
  Stoddard’s prose writings that they had in them ‘the very make of the
  tropic spray, which knows not if it be sea or sun.’ The same elusive
  charm, at once refreshing and languishing, opulently rich and
  inexpressibly delicate, characterizes Stoddard’s poetry. ... In these
  poems we catch glimpses of the inner man even more revealing than any
  given in his other books.”

       + =Cath World= 105:822 S ‘17 700w

  “Miss Coolbrith was a co-worker with Stoddard and Bret Harte on the
  staff of The Overland Monthly, and, as she is, herself, a lyricist of
  unquestioned merit, and laureate of ‘The golden state,’ crowned at the
  recent exposition, she is well equipt to judge which poems of all that
  Stoddard wrote should be collected and preserved. The volume includes
  the best of his verse, the famous ‘Bells of San Gabriel,’ ‘Tamalpais’
  and the sonnet ‘Yosemite.’”

       + =Ind= 92:66 O 8 ‘17 100w

  “There is singularly little that is antiquated about these poems,
  though some of them were dated from the early 60’s. Stoddard was a
  supreme artist in verse as well as in prose, and was well in advance
  of his time in his entire sincerity and lack of literary pose.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:449 N 4 ‘17 600w


=STODDARD, THEODORE LOTHROP.= Present-day Europe: its national states of
mind. map *$2 (3c) Century 940.91 17-14686

  This book, the author states, is not a story of current events, but a
  study of “the war psychology of the various European nations.” It
  covers England, Germany, France, Austria-Hungary, Italy, Russia, the
  Balkan states, Turkey, Scandinavia, Belgium, Holland, Spain, and
  Portugal. The author believes that “the only satisfactory method of
  portraying thought and emotion is the use of direct evidence,”
  therefore, he has quoted freely from contemporary speeches,
  press-comment, pamphlets, etc. The narrative takes us to the opening
  months of 1917.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:21 O ‘17

  “Throughout his investigation Mr Stoddard seems to have preserved a
  scrupulously scientific attitude of mind. Indeed it is impossible to
  determine from his book whether his sympathies are with Germany or
  with the Entente. Those who wish an intelligent understanding of the
  problems that will arise around the international council table when
  the nations meet to settle the terms of peace will find ‘Present-day
  Europe’ both informative and suggestive.” R. T. P.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 6 ‘17 1200w

  “The value of such a study depends on the judgment with which the
  excerpts are selected. Mr Stoddard’s judgment is excellent.”

       + =Nation= 105:434 O 18 ‘17 260w

  “An extremely valuable work, valuable because its subject matter is in
  itself new, and has not been treated in the ordinary run of war
  literature. Of course, such a subject is extremely difficult to
  handle, and its accuracy cannot be more than loosely guaranteed. It is
  an approximation, but an approximation under the circumstances is the
  only thing possible.” Joshua Wanhope

       + =N Y Call= p14 Je 17 ‘17 570w

  “There is a powerful lesson in this volume, and it comes directly from
  the people themselves.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:294 Ag 12 ‘17 500w

  “Dr Stoddard’s book is most interesting not in those passages wherein
  the author attempts by means of numerous citations of conflicting
  views to body forth contemporary public opinion, but rather in the
  purely historical parts. ... The author seems unable to do what a
  writer in close spiritual contact with the nations concerned could
  certainly do—that is, to give his readers some sure clue to the nature
  and motives of the prevailing national feeling. The result is a
  confusing medley of views.”

       — =No Am= 206:482 S ‘17 470w

  “In the chapters dealing with the greater nations only natives are
  allowed to testify; thus in the chapter on England only Englishmen
  speak, and in the chapter on France only Frenchmen. Not all observers
  of the conditions precedent to the war, however, will agree with this
  author’s conclusion that ‘everywhere ... the spirit of unrest was
  setting the stage for the final catastrophe, and that the catastrophe
  was ‘inevitable.’”

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 90w

         =Pratt= p42 O ‘17 30w

       + =R of Rs= 56:107 Jl ‘17 250w


=STONE, GILBERT.= England from the earliest times to the Great charter.
(Great nations ser.) il *$3 Stokes 942 (Eng ed 17-26257)

  “The present volume, which is the first of a series, treats of the
  history of England from earliest times to Magna carta. In this period
  the English race was being evolved, and the English constitution, as
  we to-day know it, was slowly struggling into being. The volume,
  indeed, is concerned with the birth of the English state.” (Preface)
  The work aims to treat of the social history of the English people as
  well as of political events. The method adopted has been to insert
  chapters dealing solely with the condition of literature, art and
  society in certain periods. A list of important dates and an index
  complete the work. A book by the author on “Wales” was published in
  1915.

  “A solid and authoritative piece of work, drawn largely from secondary
  sources. ... It is well illustrated and good for reference, but is not
  very readable.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:308 Ap ‘17

  “Mr Stone has chosen a fascinating and extensive period of great
  historical value; he treats it fully from various points of view, and
  the illustrations, which are plentiful and well selected, will be of
  great use to his readers.”

       + =Ath= p53 Ja ‘17 30w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:23 F ‘17

  “Through the mazes of Anglo-Saxon history Mr Stone, like everybody
  else, follows the unfailing guidance of Mr Plummer. ... This is the
  only chapter in which his readers have reason to complain that he has
  failed to make use of recent advances in historical criticism. This
  part of the book is marked by a knowledge of Welsh history which few,
  if any, of Mr Stone’s rivals have possessed, and he is able to throw
  fresh light upon some obscure incidents and questions. ... He is,
  throughout, specially happy in his exposition of legal conditions and
  legal reforms, and these passages, and his chapters on manners and
  customs, are always fresh.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p620 D 21 ‘16 450w


=STONE, GILBERT=, ed. Women war workers. il $1.65 (3c) Crowell 940.91
(Eng ed 17-21956)

  In her foreword to this book Lady Jellicoe says: “The truth is, this
  is not a ‘men’s war,’ as wars have been hitherto, but one in which
  both sexes must share the burdens and responsibilities.” In these
  accounts, contributed by representative workers among British women in
  the more important branches of war employment, we learn of work done
  in munitions, on the land, as postwomen, as bank clerks, as
  butcher-boys (“Delivering the goods”). The second part of the book,
  entitled “Works of mercy” discusses nursing at the front and in the V.
  A. D. (Volunteer aid detachments) hospitals, the cheering of the men
  by entertainments and constructive work for the disabled, etc., and
  welfare work among the women. Chapter 11 is a tribute to the women of
  Paris during the German advance and chapter 12 contains most valuable
  information on war organizations for the 600,000 new paid industrial
  women workers and the enormous army of volunteers. These last include
  those of Queen Mary’s needlework guild, those with the Vegetable
  products committee (whose 40,000 women volunteers supply the fleet and
  the naval hospitals with fresh vegetables), the workers at the
  Soldiers and Sailors buffet (at the Victoria railway station, London),
  and many others. The book lacks an index.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:55 N ‘17

  “The facts throughout should receive all possible publicity, though
  some of the deductions and thoughts regarding the future are rather
  superficial and shortsighted.”

     + — =Ath= p357 Jl ‘17 120w

  “Employers of women, also, will gather from representative worker
  writers valuable hints for the preservation of their employees’ health
  and strength.”

       + =Ind= 92:342 N 17 ‘17 160w

  “The women war-workers of England, from V.A.D. nurse to munition
  maker, have so often been held up in a semi-heroic pose that it is
  refreshing to have in a volume written by the women themselves, a
  purely human picture. A really eloquent, vivid, and closely knit
  description of nursing at the French front is given by Grace Ellison.”

       + =Nation= 105:407 O 11 ‘17 390w

  “The book not only offers entertainment, but has value and interest as
  an offhand sketch of some of the results of the great war that may
  have consequences of the greatest social importance.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:348 S 16 ‘17 510w

       + =Spec= 118:616 Je 2 ‘17 120w


=STONER, WINIFRED SACKVILLE.= Manual of natural education. il *$1 (2½c)
Bobbs 370.1 16-20505

  A note says that this book is meant to be used in connection with
  “Natural education” and “Facts in jingles.” It is a book of methods
  and devices. Among the chapters are: What is natural education; The
  natural education book shelf; How to use the natural educational
  tools; Training the physical part of the child’s trinity; Character
  building; Requirements for natural educational schools.

  “A valuable book for parents and teachers, for the ideas are not only
  in line with those of other advocates of naturalism in education, such
  as Rousseau and Mrs Johnson of Fairhope, Ala., but are practical,
  although frequently expressed too concisely.”

       + =Cleveland= p149 D ‘16 50w

         =Ind= 89:559 Mr 26 ‘17 40w

  “There is really nothing added here to what she said in her first
  book, nor, it may be added, has she given to the science of education
  anything new. ... This book should be read by all mothers and
  teachers, because they will get from it some of Mrs Stoner’s exuberant
  enthusiasm for the noblest work in the world—the proper upbringing of
  our children.” R. F. Zametkin

       + =N Y Call= p14 Mr 18 ‘17 330w


=STOURM, RENÉ.= Budget; Thaddeus Plazinski, tr., Walter Flavius McCaleb,
ed. (Institute for government research. Studies in administration)
*$3.75 Pub. by Appleton for the Institute for government research 336.44
17-19729

  “This is the second volume published for the Institute for government
  research, the first being ‘The financial administration of Great
  Britain.’” (Survey) The translation is from the seventh edition of “Le
  budget” (Paris, 1913). There is a foreword by the editor, who is
  dissatisfied with the translation; an introduction by Charles A.
  Beard, and an author’s preface. “The book is an extremely minute
  historical and critical study of the French budget system, with some
  consideration of the systems of other countries.” (Springf’d
  Republican) Two introductory chapters are on The budget and The
  budgetary prerogative. The author then divides the subject-matter into
  four parts: part 1, Preparation of the budget; part 2, Voting the
  budget; part 3, Execution of the budget; part 4, Control of the
  budget.

  “The best book on the subject in English. This translation is better
  than the French original for American readers because of the careful
  editing and notes.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:114 Ja ‘18

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:146 F ‘18 300w

         =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 50w

  “No book has been more influential in bringing to their present high
  efficiency the financial systems of the western European nations. ...
  It will undoubtedly become a force in the gradual reshaping of public
  opinion on more wholesome lines.”

       + =Dial= 63:459 N 8 ‘17 400w

  “The translator has performed his difficult task fairly well, while
  the editor has corrected a few mistakes made by the author in his
  description of American budgetary procedure.”

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:856 O ‘17 60w

       + =Outlook= 117:143 S 26 ‘17 20w

  “The editor of the series says in a frank and highly commendable
  foreword that he is not satisfied with the translation, and his
  judgment is borne out by an examination of the work. ... The very mass
  of details all but obscures the underlying principles, but the
  abstract and awkward translation may be partly responsible for this
  impression. ... In its present form, the work will be of little
  assistance to American political scholarship or to practical
  politics.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 O 21 ‘17 150w

  “For many years Stourm’s ‘Le Budget’ has been the standard work in
  this field. Those who teach public finance in our colleges will
  welcome it in English. ... Outside of academic circles it should be
  widely read because it contains the best account of the evolution of
  budgetary systems and sets forth in detail the problems encountered in
  France, many of which have been not unlike our own. The difficult
  tasks of translator and editor have been fairly well done.” H. A.
  Millis

       + =Survey= 38:574 S 29 ‘17 100w


=STRAHAN, SPEER, and O’DONNELL, CHARLES LEE=, comps. Notre Dame verse.
*$1 Notre Dame book store, Notre Dame, Ind. 811.08

  “Some of the best of the poetry that has been written in past years by
  the students of Notre Dame university has been gathered into a small
  volume by Speer Strahan and Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., and
  published with the modest title ‘Notre Dame verse.’” (Lit D) “Some
  famous names are included in the list of contributors. Charles Warren
  Stoddard is here, with his inimitable ‘Lahaina,’ and his ‘Indiana’;
  Maurice Francis Egan with an exquisite sonnet, ‘An eventide’; Father
  Charles L. O’Donnell offers four beautiful selections, one a quatrain
  of the sort that the lamented Father Tabb was wont to write; Speer
  Strahan is also represented, whose verse is well known, ... and two or
  three others, perhaps not quite so familiar.” (Cath World)

  “It is the spirit of the writings herein gathered that appeals; the
  uniform sense of high ideals, of nobility in aspiration that is
  refreshing.”

       + =Cath World= 106:262 N ‘17 270w

  “It is an admirable collection.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1176 Ap 21 ‘17 360w


Straight road. il *$1.50 (1c) Doran 17-13077

  The familiar story of the woman alone is retold in this novel. Callie
  Baird leaves her husband and goes out into the world to make a living
  for her child. Her marriage had been doomed to failure from the first,
  for it had been arranged by her mother after the ruthless breaking off
  of a boy and girl love affair. She meets both harshness and kindness
  at the hands of men and women. She comes into contact with more than
  one man who looks on her as legitimate prey, but she finds the other
  kind too, and finally there is a meeting with the old girlhood lover.
  This happens under dramatic circumstances, while Callie is working as
  a hop picker on a ranch owned by his father. The scene of the story is
  California and the events related in the closing chapters bear a close
  resemblance to occurrences at Wheatland a year or so ago.

  “The anonymous novel which has been published serially in McClure’s
  Magazine has aroused considerable comment already. ... There is no
  doubt whatever that the magazine desires it to be understood that it
  is the record of actual experience. It is just as absolutely true that
  it is constructed with very apparent knowledge of novel
  construction. ... It is by no means a great story, but it is very
  strong in human interest. Its force comes from the frankness of the
  personal confession in it.” D. L. M.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 660w

  “The story of the strike itself is told with conviction. And the
  woman’s experiences before she becomes a hop-picker, her struggles to
  earn a living and keep straight in a world dominated by the predatory
  male, seem to be real adventures and not special pleading. It is a
  book which any good craftsman would be willing to sign, and I cannot
  see the reason for anonymity.” J: Macy

     + — =Dial= 63:112 Ag 16 ‘17 310w

  “When the end of the book is nearly reached, there comes an
  interesting episode. This is Callie’s short experience as a hop-picker
  on the Las Palmas ranch.”

       — =N Y Times= 22:163 Ap 22 ‘17 350w

  “The principal characters are skilfully sketched and the heroine’s
  little boy is delightful. If the story is impressionistic and
  discursive, and the sex theme unpleasantly insistent, the incidents
  are well conceived, and the writing brisk and interesting.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 350w


=STRAUS, NATHAN.= Disease in milk; the remedy: pasteurization; the life
work of Nathan Straus, by Lina Gutherz Straus. 2d ed, rev and enl il
*$2.50 Dutton 614.3 17-13812

  This book, first published privately some years ago, is now presented
  in a revised and enlarged edition to commemorate the twenty-fifth
  anniversary of Nathan Straus’s establishment of pasteurized milk
  stations for the poor children of New York city. It tells what
  pasteurization is and does, gives the history of the struggle for pure
  milk in New York city and state and in Chicago, of milk work in Europe
  and America, of Mr Straus’s work in Palestine, of his tuberculosis
  preventorium for children, etc. Reprints of addresses, articles and
  letters by Mr Straus in furtherance of pasteurization take up 196
  pages. There are also formulas, tables of statistics, a discussion of
  how far contaminated milk is to blame for infantile paralysis, and a
  detailed description of how milk may be pasteurized at home. There are
  many illustrations.

       + =Ind= 92:109 O 13 ‘17 70w

  “It offers a compilation of facts and observations upon the subject of
  diseases and milk and how to combat them which all who are interested
  privately or publicly in the milk supply will be glad to have.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:257 Jl 8 ‘17 500w

  “Altogether the book is an inspiring record of the courageous,
  persistent and successful fight waged by Mr Straus.” Franz Schneider,
  jr.

       + =Survey= 39:72 O 20 ‘17 130w


=STRAYER, GEORGE DRAYTON, and NORSWORTHY, NAOMI.= How to teach. *$1.30
Macmillan 371 17-4794

  “This book includes a comprehensive summary of the psychological facts
  and principles which underlie effective method, as well as a series of
  specific suggestions to be observed in teaching. The scope of the book
  is well represented by the following topics: ‘The work of the
  teacher,’ ‘Original nature,’ ‘Attention and interest in teaching,’
  ‘The formation of habits,’ ‘How to memorize,’ ‘The teacher’s use of
  imagination,’ ‘How thinking may be stimulated,’ ‘Appreciation,’ ‘The
  meaning of play in education,’ ‘The significance of individual
  differences,’ ‘The development of moral social conduct,’ ‘Transfer of
  training types of classroom exercises,’ ‘How to study,’ and ‘Measuring
  the achievement of children.’ ... Practically every chapter contains
  illustrations based on actual classroom practices.”—El School J

         =A L A Bkl= 14:8 O ‘17

  “This book is thoroughly colored by the experimental work and
  educational philosophy of Dewey and Thorndike. The point of view of
  the former is elaborated in the chapter on ‘Thinking,’ and of the
  latter in the chapters on ‘Original nature,’ ‘Habit formation,’
  ‘Transfer of training,’ and school tests. The chapter on ‘Measuring
  the achievements of children’ can hardly be said to be a
  representative statement of the testing movement.”

       + =El School J= 17:530 Mr ‘17 450w

  “The most thorough and systematic treatment of the problems of general
  methods which has appeared during the past year. On account of the
  psychological background, which many of its discussions presuppose,
  this book is much better adapted to the mature or experienced teacher
  than to the beginner. It merits, however, a prominent place in the
  working library of each teacher.”

       + =El School J= 17:756 Je ‘17 220w

         =N Y Call= p15 S 16 ‘17 170w


=STREET, GEORGE EDMUND.= Unpublished notes and reprinted papers. il
*$2.25 (3½c) Hispanic soc. of Am.; for sale by Putnam 726 17-8606

  George Edmund Street was an English architect, associated with
  Burne-Jones and William Morris. In her biographical introduction,
  Georgiana Goddard King speaks of him as “a man who died more than
  thirty years ago, who lived a Tory and a high churchman, who worked to
  revive Gothic architecture in England.” He traveled extensively,
  studying the architecture of France and Italy. It is with these
  travels that the papers and notes in the present volume deal. An
  appendix gives notes on churches of northern Germany.

  “The whole volume will be a valuable addition to the library of anyone
  interested in the subject of Gothic architecture in Europe or in the
  work of Street himself.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 6 ‘17 750w

  “This volume is virtually the only printed memorial of the man, who at
  the time of his death, thirty-five years ago, was hailed as the
  greatest of British architects, the designer of the great Courts of
  justice in London, and the foremost exponent of the movement for the
  revival of the Gothic architecture in England.”

         =R of Rs= 55:215 F ‘17 100w

  “The travel notes are of general interest though shot through with
  architectural comment that makes chief appeal to the profession and
  the ecclesiologist. It is a valuable book, but not a particularly
  popular one.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 250w


=STREET, JULIAN LEONARD.= American adventures. il *$3 (2c) Century 917.5
17-30047

  In quite the same vein as “Abroad at home.” There is let loose in
  these pages something of the hero-worshipper, a good deal of the sage
  and poet and a preponderance of the traveler who has a keen scent for
  historical and literary associations. Those who go a-journeying with
  Mr Street will cover the principal cities from the Chesapeake to the
  Mississippi. Traditions, great men, great deeds, memorials, scenery,
  atmosphere—these are the matters that concern the writer as he hunts
  out the strong, deep-rooted city entity. A suggestive foreword which
  likens the relationship of the South and the North to that of a
  pretty, sensitive wife to a big strong, amiable if somewhat
  thick-skinned husband furnishes a novel thought.

  “They are sympathetic, delightful descriptions, with much information
  entertainingly treated.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:126 Ja ‘18

  “The book suffers a little from an excess of reportorial matter. As in
  his first book, Mr Street reveals a lively humour and a faculty for
  looking at old things from new angles. In one respect, however,
  ‘American adventures’ is not up to the standard of ‘Abroad at home.’
  In the earlier book the author wrote as if he were thoroughly at home
  in the middle west, and enjoyed his visit there. The later volume
  gives one an impression that Mr Street was not so much at home in the
  South, that it was very new to him, and that he did not altogether
  understand it.” A. M. Chase

     + — =Bookm= 46:335 N ‘17 250w

  “As guests of the southern states the collaborators in pen and pencil
  courteously draw a fair portrait, and, in consequence, ignore some
  very fundamental facts not to the credit of southern civilization. How
  much the ‘expense account’ of which Collier’s Weekly, with its known
  southern attitude, assumed a part, had to do in influencing this easy
  reportorial indifference, one can only guess.”

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 9 ‘18 240w

       + =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 40w

  “In a little foreword written with exquisitely fine feeling he speaks
  of the North’s lack of understanding of the South and urges more
  consideration for the feelings of that region. Mr Morgan’s
  illustrations catch the spirit and charm of the scenes he portrays.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:482 N 18 ‘17 250w

  “The work of a trained observer and a clever artist who set out to
  ‘make a book.’ The result is lively, interesting, but somewhat
  ‘newspaperish.’ It is a good book for stay-at-home travelers who would
  like to go South for the winter but can’t.”

       + =Outlook= 117:433 N 14 ‘17 50w

  “Written in the same mood of pleasant intimacy and irresponsible
  self-enjoyment as ‘Abroad at home.’ ... The serious minded tourist,
  who purposes to cover conscientiously the orthodox ‘sights’ of each
  city he proposes visiting would do better to trust to the meagre help
  of the inadequate American Baedeker. Mr Street would inevitably leave
  this type of person so sadly full of disillusions. The reason is quite
  simple: what he describes is less what exists in any given place than
  what he happens to think he finds there—a large part of which he
  brings with him.” Philip Tillinghast

     + — =Pub W= 92:1388 O 20 ‘17 400w

  “Many of the papers have appeared serially in Collier’s, but they have
  been amplified considerably for the present publication. Chief in
  interest, perhaps, among the additions are the letters which were
  called out from the South, either in contradiction or commendation,
  after the first appearance of the work.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 24 ‘17 760w


=STREETER, BURNETT HILLMAN=,[2] and others. Immortality. *$2.25 (2c)
Macmillan 218 17-31042

  A companion volume to “Concerning prayer.” The title-page describes it
  as “an essay in discovery, co-ordinating scientific, psychical, and
  biblical research.” In the first two essays and the first section of
  the third the attempt is made to set out in logical sequence the main
  arguments for the belief in personal immortality. The rest of the
  third essay, and essays four to six deal with the nature of the after
  life, and discuss the meaning and value for modern thought, of
  conceptions like resurrection, judgment, heaven and hell. Essays seven
  and eight estimate judicially the elements of truth and error in
  spiritualism and in the doctrine of reincarnation, more especially in
  relation to the claims made on its behalf by modern theosophy. The
  ninth essay is an epilogue to the whole collection.

         =Ath= p42 Ja ‘18 90w

  “The essays are unequal in value but, in the main, are fresh and
  stimulating. The best, as also the most philosophic, thing in the book
  is A. Clutton-Brock’s essay.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 28 ‘18 340w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p586 N 29 ‘17 200w


=STRONG, THERON GEORGE.= Joseph H. Choate. il *$3 (3½c) Dodd 17-28096

  Mr Strong, who is the author of “Landmarks of a lawyer’s lifetime,”
  divides his volume of nearly 400 pages into four sections: The New
  Englander; The New Yorker; The lawyer; The ambassador. The book does
  not pretend to be “a complete biography of Mr Choate, much less an
  authorized biography, which would naturally refer to subjects,
  domestic and social, to which the author does not allude.”
  (Introductory note) Mr Strong has had access to very full scrapbooks
  containing clippings from English and American newspapers kept by Mr
  Choate when he was ambassador. Mr Choate also placed the beginning of
  his reminiscences, consisting of family history carried only to the
  date of his birth, in Mr Strong’s hands, and “in several conversations
  gave him valuable information.” The book contains a number of
  illustrations and is indexed.

  “The author’s division of Mr Choate’s long and brilliant career into
  four phases, each of which he treats separately, helps the reader to
  appreciate the many-sided variety of his character and achievement.”
  F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 46:328 N ‘17 330w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 D 8 ‘17 1300w

       + =Cleveland= p12 Ja ‘18 40w

  “Mr Choate preserved ‘scrap-books’ which he turned over to Mr Strong.
  The result is necessarily a somewhat scrappy work. Meanwhile, Mr
  Strong must be thanked for bringing out of his storehouse of personal
  recollections and of available records, things new and old to quicken
  remembrance of the man whose personality was too vivid ever to be
  brought to print.”

     + — =Nation= 105:489 N 1 ‘17 330w

  “While Mr Strong disclaims the purpose of writing a biography of Mr
  Choate that would be either authoritative or complete, he has made a
  study that is full of interest, that covers fairly well the several
  phases of his many-sided life, and that had, in some of its features,
  the assistance and authority of Mr Choate himself.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:435 O 28 ‘17 970w

  “Mr Strong’s book will prove to be a valuable contribution to
  Americans for one thing alone if for no other. It collects Mr Choate’s
  ambassadorial addresses. Nothing of the kind we know of in English
  literature is more charming. The volume is a credit to its subject and
  to its author.”

       + =Outlook= 117:574 D 5 ‘17 170w

  “His life, though not an ‘official’ biography, and though containing
  numerous errors of facts, gives one a good idea of the man and the
  lawyer.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 320w


=STROUSE, SOLOMON, and PERRY, MAUDE ALICE.= Food for the sick. *$1.50
Saunders 613.2 17-28335

  This manual for physician and patient has been compiled by an
  associate attending physician and a dietitian at the Michael Reese
  hospital in Chicago. The authors state that their own experience has
  been supplemented by free use of current literature in textbooks and
  magazines. They attribute the planning of the chapter on Diseases of
  the heart to Dr Sidney Strauss and the outlining of that on Diseases
  of the skin to Dr Phillip F. Shaffner. The need for the book would
  seem to them to rest in the fact that “many diseases in which food
  plays an important role in treatment do not progress favorably because
  of the inability of the patient to grasp in terms of the kitchen what
  the physician says in terms of the laboratory.” (Introd.) The plan of
  the book therefore is to enable the patient and the physician to work
  together by making clear to the patient the “why” and the “how” of the
  diet needed. Each chapter is devoted to a single subject and the
  disease or condition is discussed in such a way as to make plain the
  reasons for the dietary rules which follow. Complete details for the
  diet are then given, with instructions in preparing foods and many
  menus. The first chapter is devoted to a description of the normal use
  of food and to lessons in practical application of food tables in
  building any kind of special menus. About one-fifth of the text is
  given to the dietary treatment of diabetes mellitus.


=STRUTHERS, MRS LINA (ROGERS).= School nurse. il *$1.75 (3½c) Putnam
371.7 17-24218

  This book has been written for school nurses. It is not designed as a
  complete text book, but is full of helpful suggestions and directions.
  A reading of the first chapters suggests that it might fill a need in
  a wider field. Particularly, it seems that it might be of value to
  women’s clubs that promote civic movements in their communities.
  Contents: Introduction; History; Organization; Staff rules;
  Administration; State regulations; School clinic; Out-door classes;
  Diseases; Tuberculosis; Debilitated children; Common physical defects;
  Carious teeth; The school nurse; Card system of reports. The book is
  provided with various maps and charts but lacks an index. The author
  has served as superintendent of school nurses in New York city and in
  Toronto.

       + =Ath= p44 Ja ‘18 40w

       + =Cleveland= p10 Ja ‘18 40w

         =El School J= 18:234 N ‘17 520w

       + =R of Rs= 56:555 N ‘17 70w

  Reviewed by S. L. Jean

       + =Survey= 39:370 D 29 ‘17 420w


=STUART, FLORENCE PARTELLO.= Adventures of Piang, the Moro jungle boy.
il *$1.35 (2c) Century 17-25285

  It has been the author’s purpose to do justice to the Moro, the
  highest type native to the Philippines. The volume is called “a book
  for old and young” and it is evidently her hope that in addition to
  the children who will enjoy the stories, many older people will read
  it for the information it contains. It is based on her own experience
  as a resident of the lower Philippines, supplemented with information
  from authoritative sources. The book is made up of ten short stories,
  some of which are reprinted from St Nicholas, What To Do, and Boys’
  World. There are striking black and white illustrations by Ellsworth
  Young.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:174 F ‘18

       + =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 50w

  “These tales are packed full of information about the customs, beliefs
  and way of living of the Moros. ... And the adventures are quite
  exciting enough to rejoice the heart of any normal boy.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:380 O 7 ‘17 450w

  “A book that will be valuable to readers of all ages. Boys, however,
  will especially appreciate the adventures of the lively young Moro.
  The illustrations are so telling and effective that they greatly add
  to the charm of this book.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 1 ‘17 150w


=STUCK, HUDSON.=[2] Voyages on the Yukon and its tributaries; a
narrative of summer travel in the interior of Alaska. il *$4.50 Scribner
917.98 17-30733

  “This book of Archdeacon Stuck’s is quite complete in itself. But it
  is written as a supplement and complement, the author points out, to
  ‘Ten thousand miles with a dog sled,’ and the two volumes form a
  full survey of Alaskan travel through the year. The present volume
  is devoted to the Yukon voyages, and the second to the
  tributaries—‘side-streams,’ as the river men call them, though they
  are anything but mere ‘streams’ as we use the word. He writes of the
  Klondike rush for gold. He has a full account of the work of the
  Canadian northwest mounted police in the Yukon territory. He writes
  of the cities that grew up overnight in the ‘boom’ times, and of
  their fate. He tells us of the rivers themselves, their history. He
  has much to say of the Indians. He writes of the schools of Alaska,
  and of the teachers, and of ‘compulsory English’ for the Indians.
  His book has in it sociology and economics, history, description,
  personal experience, and narrative.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:165 F ‘18

  “When a vigorous, widely traveled and broadly read man like Archdeacon
  Stuck writes about a subject with which he is thoroughly familiar by
  years of contact, the result reasonably may be a diverting book; but
  Bishop Stuck adds to these qualities the gift for picturesque phrase
  and original thought.” W. A. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 26 ‘17 1150w

  “‘Voyages on the Yukon and its tributaries’ is a notably interesting
  presentation, informative, never pedantic; rich in description,
  history, legend, yet never altogether objective, for it is tinged
  warmly throughout with the author’s personal experience, opinion,
  thought. It is in its personal quality that much of the absorbing
  charm of the book, as a piece of writing, lies.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:581 D 30 ‘17 670w

  “A thoroughly well made and extremely readable book.”

       + =Outlook= 117:615 D 12 ‘17 60w


=STUNTZ, HOMER CLYDE.= South American neighbors. 60c Missionary educ.
movement 16-14106

  “This book, although confessedly written ‘in the crowded hours of a
  busy year,’ accomplishes very well the purpose of the author, namely,
  to present for the use of mission-study classes the great problems
  lying before our missionaries in the South American field. ...
  Although necessarily brief and incomplete, the author very
  interestingly reviews the resources of South America, its fascinating
  history, the reasons for its slowness of development, some of the
  great missionary pioneers, and the outstanding problems of religion,
  education, and morals which are confronting statesmen and missionaries
  alike. He shows the inadequacy of the prevailing religion, and brings
  out clearly the paralyzing effects of the system of vast landed
  estates and the low position assigned to woman in society. He presents
  also some very interesting comparisons between North America and Latin
  America in history, purposes and life.”—Am J Theol

  “He raises many questions, political, educational, industrial,
  religious—questions which many people have not realized, and which are
  yet deserving of careful study.” L. T. H.

       + =Am J Theol= 21:158 Ja ‘17 260w

  “To those whose knowledge of South America is meager this little
  volume will serve as an excellent introduction. A good map and a
  select bibliography are given at the end of the volume.”

       + =Bib World= 49:185 Mr ‘17 80w

         =Survey= 37:587 F 17 ‘17 40w


=STURGIS, ESTHER MARY (OGDEN) (MRS RICHARD CLIPSTON STURGIS).= Random
reflections of a grandmother. *$1 (5½c) Houghton 814 17-28913

  A book of reflections and reminiscences from the pen of a woman who
  has just discovered that grandmothering is a distinct occupation. She
  is one of the modern up-to-date grandmothers, very different from the
  person who used to sit in the chimney corner with her knitting, with a
  soft white fichu over her shoulders and a priceless lace cap on her
  silvery hair. It worries the writer somewhat that she cannot live up
  to this picture, until it occurs to her that after all the modern
  grandchild wouldn’t care for that kind of a grandparent. The
  reflections touch on many subjects.

  “She writes with the true valiant heartiness of the woman to whom the
  world is a place for courage and laughter.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 O 6 ‘17 1450w

  “A book of whimsical humor, of gay comment, and bright and lovable
  criticism, a little book full of chuckles and common sense.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:462 N 11 ‘17 1000w

  “There is a light touch for every chapter, and once or twice a
  paragraph that brings a catch to the voice if one is reading aloud.
  The book is well adapted for such reading and seems likely to receive
  it.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 220w


=STURTEVANT, EDGAR HOWARD.= Linguistic change. *$1 (2c) Univ. of Chicago
press 409

  This book, which has grown out of lectures to the author’s students in
  Columbia university, is intended to serve as an introduction to the
  historical study of language. It consists of the following chapters:
  Introduction on the nature of language; Primary change of form;
  Secondary change of form; Change of meaning; Change in vocabulary;
  Change in syntax; Language and dialect; The trend of linguistic
  development.

  “It is a pleasure to call attention to a thoroly sound book for use by
  university students who are taking seriously the study of philology
  and linguistics. ... We know of no better way for the student of
  linguistics to begin his acquaintance with that interesting subject
  than by mastering Professor Sturtevant’s book.”

       + =Educ R= 54:529 D ‘17 80w


=SULLIVAN, ALAN.= Inner door. il *$1.35 Century 17-20669

  “Sylvia Percival, twenty-two years old, is left sole owner of the
  Consumer’s rubber company. Charming, delicately bred, shrinking from
  all unpleasantness, Sylvia is quite content to leave affairs in the
  willing hands of Pethick, the capable but unscrupulous manager of ‘the
  works,’ and goes to France, to visit her cousins. On her return, she
  is to marry Kenneth Landon, whom she loves, and who loves her. Soon
  after Sylvia goes, Kenneth’s father loses everything, and young Landon
  suddenly finds himself penniless. His great idea then comes to him. He
  will go to work incognito in Sylvia’s factory. He will learn the
  secrets of ‘the works,’ and emerge at the end of the year, a friend of
  the operatives, and thus be able to help Sylvia more practically than
  he else could have done in that work of uplift he has no doubt she
  will be as anxious as he to carry on. He learns more quickly than he
  could otherwise have done, because of his friendship with Sohmer, the
  socialist leader and philosopher. He goes to board at the Sohmers. And
  here Greta comes into his life: Greta, whose vivid personality is the
  epitome of love’s need of ‘giving.’”—Adapted from Boston Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:63 N ‘17

  “It is seldom that a novel presenting so keen a study of the eternal
  warfare between labor and capital has so poignant a romantic interest.
  Usually one or the other is sacrificed. ... The skill with which the
  story is wrought is admirable. ... Among the most effective bits of an
  always artistic method, are the contrasting descriptions and their
  subtle influence upon Sylvia, of the grim Canadian town, where her
  betrothed is waiting for her and the picturesque districts of the
  Riviera, into whose delights she and her Parisian cousins are
  initiated by the cosmopolitan of parts, Philippe Amaro.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 18 ‘17 620w

  “The weak point in execution is the character drawing. Sylvia is
  perhaps the most lifelike. Certainly, in spite of her open-eyed
  selfishness, she is a much less unpleasant character than Greta.
  Sohmer is simply unreal, either as a symbol or as a man. It is a pity
  such defects detract from what might have been a novel of considerable
  power.”

     – + =Cath World= 106:410 D ‘17 400w

  “The author has presented only the more obvious questions in the
  conflict between labor and capital, the more obvious conflict between
  real and fancied romance in the heart of his hero, and he has thrown
  about them a sentimental glamour that no amount of forceful writing
  can conceal. The book is a good example of the so-called better type
  of American novel with which the general reading public is wont to
  satisfy itself.”

     + — =Dial= 63:647 D 20 ‘17 140w

  “The romance, which is depicted on a background of factory life, labor
  grievances, and strikes, seems artificial and unnatural.”

     – + =Lit D= 55:39 O 27 ‘17 240w

  “‘The inner door’ is a door of revelation through which the youth of
  the story passes from good-humored acceptance of the world as a
  pleasant place to knowledge of it as a world of fellow-men. ... The
  story has no striking novelty of material.”

         =Nation= 105:248 S 6 ‘17 210w

  “Those writers about labor who have not themselves been laborers or in
  constant close touch with the labor movement invest their subject with
  a glamour quite absent to the accustomed eye. ‘The inner door’ offends
  deeply in this particular. ... The leader of the striking laborers is
  a type of man that never could be anything in a modern labor union but
  an eccentric ‘character,’ loved, perhaps, by his fellows, but never
  followed where serious issues are at stake. The hero ... is another
  impossible creation ... and his fiancée, the owner of the factory in
  which he works, is in every way his complement. ... The capitalists in
  the book are much better drawn than are their employés. Perhaps Mr
  Sullivan knows them better. ... His plot and incident are fairly well
  worked out.” D: P. Berenberg

     – + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 12 ‘17 560w

  “Although it is with Sohmer and his daughter that Mr Sullivan’s
  sympathies evidently lie, he has done much better work in his sketches
  of pretty, pleasure-hungry Sylvia, her relations, the Percivals, and
  the delightful old Comtesse.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:279 Jl 29 ‘17 510w


=SUPPLE, EDWARD WATSON=, ed. Spanish reader of South American history;
ed. with notes, exercises, and vocabulary. (Macmillan Spanish ser.) il
*$1 Macmillan 468 17-2333

  “The editor is instructor in Spanish in the Sheffield scientific
  school at Yale.” (St Louis) “This book contains selections from
  Latin-American authors dealing with episodes in their history, such as
  the death of Atahuallpa the Inca; the campaigns of Bolivar and San
  Martin, who drove out the Spaniard; and the sea fight off Iquique
  between the Peruvians and Chileans in 1879. The text is carefully
  annotated, with a vocabulary and maps.” (Spec)

         =Ind= 91:234 Ag 11 ‘17 40w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:694 O ‘17 10w

         =St Louis= 15:325 S ‘17 10w

  “Has clear maps and interesting illustrations.”

       + =School= R 25:303 Ap ‘17 20w

       + =Spec= 118:593 My 26 ‘17 90w


=SURETTE, THOMAS WHITNEY.= Music and life; a study of the relations
between ourselves and music. *$1.25 (3c) Houghton 780.4 17-11124

  A collection of essays on music, reprinted in part from the Atlantic
  Monthly. The book as a whole makes a fine and vigorous plea that music
  be accepted as a part of life rather than one of its ornaments or
  decorations. In his conclusion the author sums up the matter: “The
  relation between music and life is an intimate and vital relation. Any
  person, young or old who does not sing and to whom music has no
  meaning, is by just so much a poorer person in all that goes to make
  life happy, joyous and significant. Any community which employs no
  form of musical expression is by just so much inarticulate and
  disorganized as a community. Any church that buys its music and never
  produces any of its own loses just so much in spiritual power.”
  Contents: What is music; Music for children; Public school music;
  Community music; The opera; The symphony (two chapters).

  “The chapters on ‘Public school music’ and ‘Community music’ are
  noteworthy, and there is some helpful discussion of the possible
  influence of music upon American life.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:388 Je ‘17

         =Cleveland= p115 S ‘17 20w

         =Cleveland= p125 N ‘17 60w

  “Professor Surette is one of the most enthusiastic and successful
  leaders in the community music movement.”

         =Ind= 90:595 Je 30 ‘17 40w

  “He fails dismally in his attempt to prove that the German classical
  symphony is a coherent work of art instead of a mere suite of four
  incoherent pieces. There is a sensible chapter on opera, but by far
  the most valuable pages in this volume are concerned with Music for
  children, Public-school music, and Community singing. On these things
  Mr Surette speaks as an expert and an authority.” H: T. Finck

     + — =Nation= 105:546 N 15 ‘17 170w

         =Ontario Library Review= 1:111 My ‘17 40w

  “The chapter on music for children should interest all parents.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:445 O ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:177 Je ‘17

  “He does not tear down without building up. Everywhere he offers
  remedial measures.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 4 ‘17 500w


=SUTHERLAND, SAMUEL JAMES.= Reserve officers’ handbook. il *$1.25
Houghton 355 17-18055

  The author is a captain in the Twenty-third infantry, U.S.A., who has
  served as company commander at Plattsburg, as a member of the
  examining board for reserve officers, and as lecturer to applicants
  for commissions. He covers clearly and concisely administration and
  organization, small arms firing, field service regulations,
  topography, military law and miscellaneous topics, and reprints from
  the “Infantry drill regulations” of the United States army such
  extracts as are essential to the reserve officer, with corrections to
  January 9, 1917.

       + =N Y Times= 22:264 Jl 15 ‘17 100w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:695 O ‘17 10w

         =Pratt= p15 O ‘17 40w

  “Clear and concise.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:359 O ‘17 20w


=SWANSON, MARGARET.= Needlecraft in the school. il *$1.50 Longmans 646
E17-742

  This manual on needlecraft is divided into three sections. The first
  deals with sewing for children under 12 years and provides a section
  on boys’ sewing. Section 2 outlines work for those over 12 and
  includes millinery. Section 3 covers a course for the training college
  student. The work is very fully illustrated, with several full page
  pictures in color. Professor John Adams of the University of London
  writes an introduction in which he says, “A striking characteristic of
  the book is the appreciation of the child’s point of view. ...
  Students of Mr Macdougall’s ‘Social psychology’ will find in these
  pages many illustrations of the manipulation of instincts in the
  interests of education.”

  “Stimulating in spite of possible criticism.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:156 F ‘18

  “Miss Swanson hails from the Glasgow school of art, where needlecraft
  flourishes as a vital force, and her name with that of Miss Macbeth of
  the same institution has already appeared on another of Messrs
  Longmans’ books on the subject, ‘Educational needlecraft,’ the scope
  of which is different from that of the present volume.”

       + =Int Studio= 61:144 My ‘17 400w

  “It has 130 pages with large clearly rendered illustrations, six of
  which are in color. ... While some of the designs will not meet the
  approval of American taste, others will, and all are suggestive.”

       + =School Arts Magazine= 16:356 Ap ‘17 60w

  “The wide range of subjects which may be grouped under the name
  ‘needlecraft,’ and their educational use, are here put before the
  reader in an interesting, we might well say an arresting, manner. ...
  This book will be of use to amateur teachers as well as to
  professional teachers and students.”

       + =Spec= 118:241 F 24 ‘17 150w


=SWINBURNE, ALGERNON CHARLES.= Algernon Charles Swinburne. il *$2 (4c)
Putnam 17-13753

  This volume is made up largely of extracts from the letters of
  Algernon Charles Swinburne. Mrs Disney Leith’s recollections of her
  cousin, amplified from an article that appeared in the Contemporary
  Review in 1910, serve as an introduction. The letters date from 1855
  on, but are not arranged in strict chronological order, as the editor
  has endeavored to arrange them somewhat by subject, grouping together
  those relating to distinguished persons, foreign travel, his work,
  etc. Many of them are family letters addressed to his mother and
  sisters.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 23 ‘17 1400w

  “A first feeling of disappointment comes when one discovers, at page
  38, that the recollections are finished. The disappointment is a
  compound of surprise at their short length and mild anger at their
  lack of interest. ... The remaining 218 pages are given to letters of
  little or no interest, which contain no particularly valuable
  references to people or events. The whole volume contains practically
  nothing that Mr Gosse has not presented in his recent biography.”

       — =Dial= 63:275 S 27 ‘17 240w

         =Ind= 92:64 O 6 ‘17 850w

       + =Nation= 105:206 Ag 23 ‘17 200w

  “It is his devotion to his mother that seems to have been the
  sustained absorbing passion of his life. ... The Swinburne that Mrs
  Leith’s volume reveals is an altogether lovable sort of being, as
  different as possible from the traditional caricature that passes for
  a genuine portrait of the poet.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:240 Je 24 ‘17 1100w

  “It seems as if the letters, in particular, had been selected partly
  with a view to counteracting any conception that the general public
  may still retain of Swinburne as a morbid, hyperaesthetic or
  extravagantly eccentric man. ... But if one is unaffected by the
  mythical and anecdotal view of Swinburne—if what one chiefly wants is
  greater insight into the poet’s art and his ways of thinking and
  feeling, the present volume may prove unsatisfying.”

     + — =No Am= 206:314 Ag ‘17 800w

  “Where may one begin or stop in the attempt to convey some idea of the
  contents, the interest, and the charm of so wholly delightful a book?”

       + =Sat R= 123:392 Ap 28 ‘17 800w

  “Mrs Disney Leith’s reminiscences of Swinburne in boyhood, and the
  letters to his mother and sisters extending over a period of nearly
  fifty years, form a most valuable supplement, and to a certain extent
  a corrective, to Mr Gosse’s memoir.”

       + =Spec= 118:491 Ap 28 ‘17 550w

  “A very delightful volume and a necessary supplement to Edmund Gosse’s
  recent biography.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 1100w

  “The letters, just because they are so unexpected, help us to
  understand him. He was a boy to the last.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p139 Mr 22 ‘17 830w

  “It is hardly fair to compare the personal recollections of Mrs Disney
  Leith with the work of an experienced biographer like Mr Gosse; but,
  if the blunt truth must be told, her account of the poet in his family
  relations is both thin and dull, and adds nothing to our
  knowledge. ... Under her cautious shears everything that might make
  the poet a vital figure is shorn away.” C. B. Tinker

       — =Yale R= n s 7:195 O ‘17 850w


=SWINBURNE, ALGERNON CHARLES.= Posthumous poems; ed. by Edmund Gosse and
T: James Wise. $2.50 P. R. Reynolds, 70 5th av., N.Y. 821 17-22667

  “In his preface Mr Gosse tells us that the earliest of these poems was
  written in 1857, the latest in 1907. Among them are eleven Border
  ballads, written probably in the early ‘sixties,’ and these are the
  most interesting part of the book. Mr Gosse explains why they have not
  been published before. ... Mr Gosse prints the poem on The discovery
  of the North-west passage, with which Swinburne competed for the
  Newdigate in 1858, but did not win it. ... There is also a long ode to
  Mazzini which Mr Gosse proves to have been written early in 1857.”
  (The Times [London] Lit Sup) “The remaining poems included in the
  collection reflect various aspects of Swinburne’s genius and
  character. None is devoid of interest, some are curious, and several
  are beautiful.” (Spec)

  “There is much in this volume which lovers of English verse would not
  willingly have let die.”

       + =Ath= p362 Jl ‘17 150w

  “The ballads, take them all in all, are interesting bits of work, and
  they alone would have made the volume worth publishing. Of the
  miscellaneous poems which occupy the rest of the volume, two or three
  are parodies, and one—‘Pope Celestin and Count Giordano’—is an
  extremely clever imitation of Robert Browning, not a parody, for there
  is no exaggeration in it, but a piece of good Browingesque work. ...
  Among the shorter pieces there are several of considerable charm, such
  as ‘Echo,’ ‘Evening by the sea,’ and ‘Æolus.’”

 *   + – =Nation= 105:345 S 27 ‘17 2350w

       + =Sat R= 124:sup4 Jl 7 ‘17 570w

       + =Spec= 118:701 Je 23 ‘17 1350w

  “There is no poem in the book as good as his best; but the ballads
  reveal a power in him which was not fully revealed even in ‘A
  Jacobite’s exile.’”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p295 Je 21 ‘17 1100w


=SWINNERTON, FRANK ARTHUR.= Chaste wife. *$1.50 (1c) Doran 17-3573

  There are some very pleasant and amusing people in this novel of
  English life. Its underlying theme is serious, concerning as it does
  the problem of adjustment between married lovers. Stephen Moore had
  known hardships and privation. His home life had been unhappy and he
  had carried the burden of support for his brother and sister and a
  good-for-nothing father. He had struggled upward to a position of
  prominence as a journalist and critic when he married Priscilla.
  Priscilla’s life had been one of sunshine and ease. In Stephen’s love
  for her there was an element of worship and in his mood of grave
  wonder and exaltation, it does not occur to him to tell her of the one
  dark incident in his past. It is not such a very dark incident either,
  but to Priscilla, with her simple and austere code of morals, it seems
  so. Sympathy and affection, and a sincere willingness to understand,
  help to solve her problem.

       + =Bellman= 22:442 Ap 21 ‘17 300w

  “Mr Swinnerton writes so close to life itself that in our memory of
  his book it is not the story as a whole that stands out, but rather
  scenes, details and characters that beckon us irresistibly. It is the
  people rather than what they do that absorbingly interest us.” D. L.
  M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 24 ‘17 1150w

  “Since the publication, a couple of years ago, of ‘The happy family,’
  Frank Swinnerton has had a place on that comparatively brief list made
  up of the novelists who really count. This new story, however, is
  better than the earlier one, clever as that was.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:89 Mr 11 ‘17 850w


=SWOPE, HERBERT BAYARD.= Inside the German empire, in the third year of
the war. il *$2 (3c) Century 940.91 17-3466

  A book based on a series of articles written for the New York World in
  1916 during a three months’ stay in Germany. The author had visited
  Germany soon after the beginning of the war and he gives interesting
  contrasts between the two periods. At the time of the first visit the
  German motto was “Siegen” (conquer); now it is “Durchhalten” (stick it
  out). He does not predict an early peace. Germany may be able to
  “stick it out” for an indefinite time to come. He writes of: The four
  ways toward peace; The war’s objectives as Germany sees them;
  Liberalizing Germany; The spirit of the beleaguered empire; German
  hatred of America: its causes; The menace of the U-boat; Germany and
  the American president; Business behind the battle line; Captive
  Belgium and northern France, etc. In few books written on the war has
  neutrality been so admirably preserved.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:309 Ap ‘17

  “Though many of his opinions must be discounted by the Russian
  revolution and America’s entry into the war, his book deserves
  thoughtful scrutiny.”

       + =Ath= p260 My ‘17 150w

  “In reading both Mr Swope and Mr Curtin one feels that they tell the
  public what in their opinion the public wants to know. The result is a
  somewhat onesided picture, though it is a fascinating one.”

     + — =Ath= p346 Jl ‘17 330w

  “His conclusions about Belgium we must regard, at best, as hasty. But
  of Germany herself, Mr Swope is in a position to be well informed. ...
  Mr Swope has much to tell that is interesting and new to us—about
  public opinion, internal organization, the trends of political
  thought, and the probable leaders of the future. His point of view may
  not always be accurate in detail, but it is evident that he is a
  shrewd observer, and a fair judge of the signs of the times.” R. M.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 Ja 24 ‘17 650w

  “The tone of his writing is dispassionate and without bias.”

       + =Cleveland= p45 Mr ‘17 80w

  “It gives Americans a view of the German people, which in vision, lack
  of bias, and kindly feeling could hardly be surpassed.”

       + =Dial= 63:29 Je 28 ‘17 450w

  “Questions, of immense interest to the rest of the world, are answered
  in this highly interesting, well-written volume by a trained American
  journalist.”

       + =Lit D= 54:418 F 17 ‘17 500w

  “It has been many a day since the appearance of so vital an account of
  contemporary German life and thinking as Herbert Bayard Swope offers
  in his book. ... Most promising for the future is his conviction that
  the war will permanently liberalize German social and political
  conventions.”

       + =Nation= 104:244 Mr 1 ‘17 250w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:30 F ‘17

  “Always bearing in mind the presence of the censor—for the author made
  his notes during a residence in Germany undertaken for that very
  purpose—we have here the sanest and most reasonable appearing digest
  of conditions in the German empire that has yet been made public.” J.
  W.

       + =N Y Call= p15 F 18 ‘17 400w

       + =N Y Times= 22:18 Ja 21 ‘17 400w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:210 Mr ‘17 60w

  “Some useful information, mingled with much that is doubtful, about
  the state of Germany during last autumn may be found in Mr Swope’s new
  book. ... Yet the book is of interest, especially as a warning that
  Germany is by no means exhausted or penitent and that the Allies have
  a very great deal more to do before they conquer.”

     + — =Spec= 118:676 Je 16 ‘17 130w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 28 ‘17 650w

  “Conceiving that the office of a reporter is to report and not to
  judge, he diligently repeats what he has been told by Herr Zimmermann
  and others and gives us the official German picture of contemporary
  German conditions. There is no evidence that he has observed anything
  for himself, or even that he has read the German papers. From a file
  of Vorwärts, or even the Berliner Tageblatt, one could easily refute
  his propositions in detail. ... ‘Rich and poor,’ writes Mr Swope,
  ‘fare alike.’ That also is untrue. The Socialists arise and say so,
  giving chapter and verse for their statements, as often as the
  Reichstag and the Landtag meet.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p170 Ap 12 ‘17 580w

  “Rather expensive for the small library considering that the
  conditions described are transitory.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:124 Ap ‘17 70w


=SYMONS, ARTHUR.= Figures of several centuries. *$3 Dutton 804 17-13498

  “The ‘figures’ in this collection of thoughtful and discriminative
  studies range from St Augustine to Baudelaire, from Villon and Donne
  to George Meredith and Sarojini Naidu, and from Flaubert and Ibsen to
  Charles Lamb and Emily Brontë.”—Ath

         =A L A Bkl= 13:441 Jl ‘17

  “Mr Symons writes, as ever, with a deep sense of the seriousness of
  art as an expression of personality and the meaning of life, and with
  as deep a sense and appreciation of beauty. His devotion to beauty of
  style leads him astray sometimes in his relative appreciation of prose
  works and poetical works. Thus Ibsen and Whitman, in our opinion,
  scarce get their due in comparison with poets who were not their
  peers.”

       + =Ath= p43 Ja ‘17 110w

  “Few things more acutely critical than the nine pages that he modestly
  calls ‘A note on the genius of Thomas Hardy’ are to be found in modern
  criticism. ... He gives us no less emphatic a view of the other
  writers. It is, however, no injustice to him to rest his case as a
  critic upon this brief glimpse of his insight into Hardy.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 25 ‘17 1500w

       + =Cleveland= p105 S ‘17 40w

  “Though Mr Symons is constantly bringing out books, none of the
  reviews and literary essays in the present one date within the past
  ten years; many of them are older than fifteen; one or two date back a
  quarter of a century; and some of them are early things recently—or
  less recently—retouched.”

         =Dial= 62:445 My 17 ‘17 250w

  “His most unsympathetic essay treats of Ibsen. ... His most elaborate
  study is of the metrical accomplishments of Swinburne. The most
  subtle, penetrating, and intimate deals with John Donne.”

         =Nation= 104:764 Je 28 ‘17 370w

  “The reason why Mr Symons, one of the most sensitive among living
  critics, does not rank with the great critics, is easily found. His
  impressions are always recorded with exactness, and often with sober
  beauty. But they are the impressions of a critic who undervalues mere
  mind, who is not enough disturbed by its absence—see his essay on
  Swinburne—and who is deficient in moral insight—see the essay on
  Ibsen.” P. L.

     + — =New Repub= 10:379 Ap 28 ‘17 1300w

  “It is eight years since the last publication in this country of a
  book by Arthur Symons. These random essays are not all of equal
  interest or value. But the book has in it much of loveliness, much of
  analysis, much of fine appreciation. It is to be welcomed heartily.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:233 Je 17 ‘17 500w

  “In the study of Thomas Hardy, in a brief half-dozen pages, Symons has
  dissected and analyzed the novelist as story-teller, philosopher and
  psychologist in a piece of memorable and distinguished criticism.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:103 Jl ‘17 160w

       + =Sat R= 123:161 F 17 ‘17 1950w

  “Sensitive Symons is, but not always sensible. At his best, when he is
  compact and restrained, he attains a combination of fresh insight and
  feeling expression that makes criticism a delight. In this collection
  he is often at his best. ... But Mr Symons in some of the later essays
  becomes the mere ‘enthusiast.’ And when he does he simply slops over.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 1200w

  “These papers are for the most part short; but they are aimed so
  directly at the heart of the subject that in each case they seem to
  show us something we had missed before. And it is always done as the
  poet knows how to do it. ... Naturally we do not accept all that Mr
  Symons says; but we must consistently pay homage to the spirit in
  which he approaches these different writers.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p623 D 21 ‘16 1800w


=SYMONS, ARTHUR.=[2] Tristan and Iseult. new ed *$1.25 Brentano’s 822
17-13960

  “One of the oldest themes in literature engages the pen of Arthur
  Symons in his poetic drama, ‘Tristan and Iseult.’ The subject has been
  popular in all countries in all ages. It has appeared in Irish folk
  legends, in the English Arthurian cycle, and in the minnelieder of
  Gottfried von Strassburg.” (Springf’d Republican) The story is here
  presented as “a blank verse tragedy [in four acts] of the love
  triangle of Iseult of Brittany, Iseult of Ireland and Tristan the
  harper.” (Cleveland)

  “The lines make an emotional appeal but are not equal in beauty to the
  prose of Symons’ essays.”

     + — =Cleveland= p135 D ‘17 50w

  “The finest piece of imaginative work that we have ever had from
  Arthur Symons. It has an enchantment that is hard to analyze. ‘Tristan
  and Iseult’ is ingenious and subtle; it is imaginative, too, and above
  all it has a personal soul.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:559 D 16 ‘17 930w

  “Pleasant and skilful as is Mr Symons’s sensuous verse-making, neither
  emotionally nor in beauty of diction does the play attain the hights
  of which the theme is capable.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 220w

  “In his effort to keep his characters ‘natural’ Mr Symons has robbed
  them of some Attic grandeur; in his respect for their grandeur he has
  robbed them of some Elizabethan humanity. For all that, he is too fine
  a critic and too subtle a craftsman in poetry not to have made a thing
  of beauty.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p635 D 20 ‘17 890w


=SYPHERD, WILBUR OWEN.= Bibliography on “English for engineers.” *25c
Scott 620.7 16-15643

  “[This is] a useful list of articles on technical writing arranged
  under such headings as the importance of good English, the teaching of
  English to engineering students, and the composition of various kinds
  of technical papers, reports, and contracts, with an appendix
  containing suggestions for the formation of a technical library. The
  bibliography does not pretend to be exhaustive; ... it does index a
  mass of material that the ordinary English teacher would have
  difficulty in finding.”—Nation

  “The list of recommended engineering books includes no titles later
  than January, 1916. The compiler’s ‘Handbook of English for engineers’
  (Scott, Foresman, 1913) is one of the best of its type.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:329 My ‘17

  “In scope it is limited strictly to technical composition in the
  narrower sense, in which sense the word ‘English’ in the title is to
  be understood. Perhaps the most valuable sections are those referring
  to material on the use of technical terms and on the writing of
  specifications. ... If a second edition is called for, the compiler
  could add immensely to the value of the bibliography by including,
  with the same admirable organization, some scientific material such as
  that in the tentative, wholly unorganized, and yet valuable
  ‘Bibliography of scientific and technical writing,’ published February
  1 by Professors Raymond, Atkinson, and Starbuck of the Iowa State
  college of agriculture.”

       + =Nation= 105:261 S 6 ‘17 320w

         =St Louis= 15:355 O ‘17 40w




                                   T


=TABER, SUSAN.=[2] Optimist. *$1.30 (2c) Duffield 17-22703

  Twelve short stories on modern themes. Contents: The optimist; Two
  feminists; The spoiled child; The sword; His brother’s story; The
  winter of her discontent; The patriot; Alethia; The wedding veil; A
  legacy; Easter morning; Alice in wonderland.

  “The author has remarkable ability in setting forth the meaningful
  episodes in her characters’ lives. In her economical use of material,
  too, she is skilful, giving in considerably less than the usual space
  illuminating glimpses into the past and clever characterizations
  besides.”

       + =Dial= 63:597 D 6 ‘17 100w

  “Stories neither especially good especially poor in quality, make up
  this new volume by Susan Taber. Several of the tales are based upon
  rather clever ideas, but they are not very well developed.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:414 O 21 ‘17 180w


=TAGORE, SIR RABINDRANATH (RAVINDRANATHA THAKURA).= Cycle of spring.
*$1.25 Macmillan 891.4 17-6670

  This play, which in its original Bengali was presented by the boys of
  the poet’s school at Bolpur, makes use of the device of a play within
  a play. A king who has just discovered his first gray hairs is
  overcome with the melancholy of old age. He neglects his affairs of
  state and chooses as his only companion a pundit who preaches the
  doctrine of resignation. Then a poet who sings the joy of life
  persuades him to witness a play he has written. This play is a merry
  allegory in which fleet-footed Youth pursues Old Age, unmasks him and
  finds him a sham. Age is only Youth disguised.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:15 O ‘17

  “This reads throughout so obviously as a translation—we would almost
  say of the untranslatable—that it fails to give pleasure, and leaves
  but a vague impression. The translation of a mystical work calls
  specially for lucidity and exactness of phrase, and the translation of
  a poetical work also calls for dignity of style: this gives neither.”

       — =Ath= p200 Ap ‘17 80w

  “Like Tagore’s other plays, the volume contains many charming lyrics.
  It is pungent, too, with a growing spirit of irony; and one notes the
  passionate praise of activity, which is as essentially the Bengali
  poet’s message to the East, as contemplation and repose may be said to
  sum up his message to the West.”

       + =Cath World= 106:247 N ‘17 160w

  “Charm and buoyancy the play undoubtedly had in the original, the
  reader feels, but also that the qualities were too elusive to catch
  and fix in an English translation.”

     + — =Cleveland= p75 Je ‘17 90w

  “Tagore’s greatly overestimated wit, wisdom, mysticism, pleasantness,
  cast again their glamor. Considered as a play ‘The cycle’ lacks,
  however, complicating forces, and, therefore, development,
  characterization, interest, climax. It is chaotic art. Considered as
  poetry its lyrical interludes are mostly imperfect, meaningless, or
  prosy.”

       — =Ind= 91:512 S 29 ‘17 160w

  “I am not imperceptive of its cunning and winning ways; I am alive to
  something half-celestial in the daintiness, the sleekness, and the
  pliancy of its wavy and murmurous English. But my heart remains hard;
  I do not like books that put up their mouths to be kissed.” O. W.
  Firkins

       — =Nation= 105:176 Ag 16 ‘17 290w

  Reviewed by Clement Wood

       — =N Y Call= p14 Ap 29 ‘17 150w

  “Not only do brightness and gayety inform the spirit of the book, but
  humor bubbles through it, and every now and then it sparkles with wit,
  wit that sometimes is sharply barbed for a thrust at some meanness in
  human nature.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:87 Mr 11 ‘17 500w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:409 My ‘17

       + =R of Rs= 55:663 Je ‘17 60w

  “The Indian poet dramatist at his happiest.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 500w


=TAGORE, SIR RABINDRANATH (RAVINDRANATHA THAKURA).= My reminiscences. il
*$1.50 (2½c) Macmillan 17-12485

  This book does not pretend to be a complete biography. The author
  says, “It is as literary material that I offer my memory pictures. To
  take them as an attempt at autobiography would be a mistake. In such a
  view these reminiscences would appear useless as well as incomplete.”
  Most of the reminiscences are drawn from boyhood and early youth. The
  translator says that they were written and published in the author’s
  fiftieth year, shortly before he started on a trip to Europe and
  America in 1912.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:58 N ‘17

  “Intrinsically interesting as a record of a life mostly passed amid
  surroundings unfamiliar to most European readers, and of the mental,
  moral, and literary development of a distinguished man, these
  reminiscences have an intrinsic charm, due to the felicitous lightness
  of the style—for which a share of the laurels must in fairness be
  awarded to the translator—and to the shrewd aphorisms and touches of
  gentle irony scattered over Sir Rabindranath’s pages.”

       + =Ath= p418 Ag ‘17 550w

       + =Ind= 92:56 O 6 ‘17 150w

       + =Lit D= 54:2008 Je 30 ‘17 250w

  “The book, though somewhat elusive in manner, presents an interesting
  picture of a boy’s life in a large household before European customs
  had encroached on the native manner. It permits one to understand also
  the sort of intellectual and moral atmosphere that enveloped the
  budding poet.”

       + =Nation= 104:662 My 31 ‘17 470w

  Reviewed by Clement Wood

       + =N Y Call= p15 Jl 22 ‘17 130w

  “If the book is not very illuminating to a critic, it is perhaps for
  the majority of persons the most surely rewarding of Tagore’s books,
  and it is capable of casting a spell upon the imagination even of
  those who care little for the author’s poetry. ... The whole narrative
  is marked not only by poetic qualities but by a spirit of kindness,
  gayety, and humor, the adequate expression of which in literature is
  as rare as are successful flights of fancy.”

       + =No Am= 206:135 Jl ‘17 600w

  “Interesting, mystical, dreamy; but as a biography not satisfactory.
  One wants to know about Sir Rabindranath’s school and its methods,
  about his principles of education, his view of English civilization
  and the English people, his judgment on the relation of the English
  government to India; but on these subjects, the author is absolutely
  silent. The chief value of the book is as a self-revelation of an
  oriental mind.”

     + — =Outlook= 116:232 Je 6 ‘17 80w

       + =R of Rs= 56:329 S ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:376 O ‘17 20w

  “The volume is the history of a mind which seems to us excessively
  self-centred in introspection. We think the translator might have
  added to the explanatory notes. Only towards the end of the book, does
  he come to that mystical revelation which lifts the cover of
  triviality from the everyday world and suppresses the ever imminent
  sense of self. To some the pages describing this experience will seem
  idle, mere dreams from the ivory gate; to others they will be the most
  significant in the book.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:67 Jl 28 ‘17 800w

  “Well worth a place in literature. ... In the frankness of its
  self-revelation and the naïveté combined with the latent vigour of the
  style, it reminds us of Yoshio Markino’s ‘When I was a child’; but
  there the resemblance ends. ... It contains much to attract even those
  who are not interested in the psychological aspects of literature:
  quaint character sketches of teachers, friends, and fellow-students,
  vivid pictures of Indian habits and scenery, analyses of child
  mentality done with extraordinary insight and sympathy.”

       + =Spec= 119:191 Ag 25 ‘17 850w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p379 Ag 9 ‘17 2500w


=TAGORE, SIR RABINDRANATH (RAVINDRANATHA THAKURA).= Nationalism. *$1.25
(5½c) Macmillan 327 17-22891

  “A nation, in the sense of the political and economic union of a
  people, is that aspect which a whole population assumes when organized
  for a mechanical purpose.” It is in this sense that Rabindranath
  Tagore finds the nation inimical to the good of humanity. India offers
  a concrete example of humanity suffering under the mechanical
  efficiency of the nation. His criticism is not directed against the
  British nation as such but against the ideal of the “western nation.”
  He distinguishes between the spirit of the West and the nation of the
  West. The spirit of the West has much to give to the East that would
  be willingly received. The “western nation” is held responsible for
  the world war. The first essay, Nationalism in the West was prepared
  for delivery as a lecture in the United States. Essays on Nationalism
  in Japan; Nationalism in India, and a poem: The sunset of the century,
  complete the contents.

  “He has produced a thoughtful book, and one that western people will
  be the better for reading.”

       + =Ath= p522 O ‘17 220w

         =Bookm= 46:286 N ‘17 70w

         =Cleveland= p8 Ja ‘18 40w

  “His lectures are well worth reading, but they do not furnish
  leadership.”

     + — =Outlook= 118:222 F 6 ‘18 140w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:830 D ‘17 90w

  “We need not perhaps take too serious a view of a poet’s whimsical and
  partly humorous incursion into a field with which he is not familiar.”

       — =Spec= 119:386 O 13 ‘17 1400w

  “If we do not think the poet’s view fair, we may allow that, from his
  standpoint it is explicable. ... As to immediate practical problems,
  the book does not give much guidance. ... It is enough that he
  indicates evils and dangers in the present system. It is for us to
  recognize those evils and dangers, and consider the way of salvation.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p435 S 13 ‘17 2200w


=TAGORE, SIR RABINDRANATH (RAVINDRANATHA THAKURA).= Personality. il
*$1.35 (3c) Macmillan 891.4 17-13755

  “The text is composed of half-a-dozen lectures in which is developed
  the idea of art as a spontaneous expression of personality, and of
  meditation as a passive surrender of the soul to the influx of the
  world.” (Nation) Sir Rabindranath also gives an account of his school
  for boys, and sets forth his views on woman, who will, he thinks, find
  her true place when we get a civilization based “upon spiritual ideals
  of reciprocity, and not upon economic ideals of efficiency.” Contents:
  What is art; The world of personality; The second birth; My school;
  Meditation; Woman. There are six full-page pictures of the author.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:51 N ‘17

  “In a somewhat lighter vein than Sãdhanã and permeated with the same
  ideas of individualism, mysticism and optimism.”

       + =Cleveland= p105 S ‘17 30w

  “Tagore is true to the mystical type. ... As an example of how
  differently the thing may be done, one turns to Samuel Butler’s
  argument in his ‘God the known and God the unknown.’ ... Butler’s
  little volume should be read with Tagore’s ‘The world of
  personality.’ ... The chapter entitled ‘The second birth’ is not only
  clear and coherent where the preceding chapter is muddled and
  topsy-turvy, but is a well-sustained study in place of a hodgepodge of
  dubious, more or less related observations.” M. C. Otto

     + — =Dial= 63:269 S 27 ‘17 1250w

  “The reader who succeeds in entering at all into the spirit of these
  discussions will not fail to see that in all of them the author is
  saying something about where the true life of personality lies. His
  ruling conception is clearly not the familiar one. He is as far as
  possible from identifying personality with that in a man which is
  peculiar and exclusive. Personality is not that which breaks out in
  the foibles and eccentricities of an individual. ‘Living one’s own
  life in truth,’ Tagore says, ‘is living the life of all the world.’
  And in that phrase we have pretty much the focus of his vision. The
  lectures are greatly taken up with the task of showing what is
  personal in man and in the universe. The universe is a person. It has
  a soul.” J. W. Scott

       + =Hibbert J= 16:160 O ‘17 2650w

         =Ind= 92:56 O 6 ‘17 50w

       + =Lit D= 56:40 Ja 12 ‘18 250w

         =Nation= 105:72 Jl 19 ‘17 300w

         =R of Rs= 56:329 S ‘17 150w

         =St Louis= 15:373 O ‘17 30w

  “The whole tenor of Tagore’s book is deeply religious, but everywhere
  he protests against formalism in religion, as against formalism in
  thought.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 25 ‘17 450w

  “Personality, if we can imagine it made the subject of an actual
  painting, as, let us say, motherhood has been, is here handled in
  Botticelli’s manner rather than in Murillo’s—as, primarily, an act of
  faith rather than as a piece of truth.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p259 My 31 ‘17 1450w


=TAGORE, SIR RABINDRANATH (RAVINDRANATHA THAKURA).=[2] Sacrifice, and
other plays. *$1.50 Macmillan 891.4 17-28833

  Includes the four new plays. Sanyasi or The ascetic, Malini, Sacrifice
  and The king and queen. The title play’s underlying theme is the wrong
  to life in slaying animals for sacrifice. When King Govinda beholds
  the grief of a beggar girl whose goat has been slain for sacrifice, he
  orders that no more blood be shed in the temple “from to-day forever.”
  Then priests rise up with the time worn sentiments on their lips,
  “That which has the sanction of ages, do you have the right to remove
  it?” and “He has defied you and me, all scriptures, all countries, all
  times.” The king typifies the spirit of knowledge and understanding
  fighting its way to freedom against superstition and blind faith.

  “While the technic of these plays closely resembles that of the
  previous collection, the teachings are more forceful, and emerge from
  the philosophy of the East in sharp, definite outlines which are
  satisfying to the western mind.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:109 Ja ‘18 160w


=TAKEDA IZUMO.= Pine-tree (Matsu). il *$1.25 Duffield 895 16-25134

  “The pine-tree,” the Japanese drama presented here, is a version of
  the play produced by the Washington Square players of New York city
  during the season of 1916-17 under the title “Bushido.” It is a play
  based on the Japanese ideal of loyalty. The play itself is preceded by
  a discussion of the Japanese theater by M. C. Marcus, with chapters on
  Some glimpses of old Japanese literature; The elements of Japanese
  drama; Early tragedy and comedy; Development of the drama; The
  classical period—Takeda Izumo and his “Pine-tree”; and Theatrical
  customs. The version of the play presented is an adaptation, not a
  translation.

  “The genius of the Japanese dramatist triumphs. He has conceived the
  central situation with such vividness and power, he has shown us the
  passion of loyalty with such reality, that we accept for the moment
  the Japanese ethical doctrine alien as it is to our own.” H. E.
  Woodbridge

     + — =Dial= 62:67 Ja 25 ‘17 650w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:151 O ‘16

  “It can safely be said that one of the greatest achievements in
  dramatic art for many years was the presentation by the Washington
  Square players of ‘Bushido,’ one act taken from a Japanese play by
  Takeda Izumo, a famous dramatist who lived during the first half of
  the eighteenth century. ... ‘The pine tree’ (Matzu), is another name
  for ‘Bushido.’ ... This little volume, with its artistic make up,
  consisting of a liberal sprinkling of Japanese drawings copied from
  the British museum, its illuminating and very readable essay on the
  Japanese drama and then the play itself makes a book really worth
  owning and reading many times.” M. G. S.

       + =N Y Call= p14 F 18 ‘17 400w

  “The most interesting part of this little volume is the dissertation
  on Japanese literature and drama which it includes.”

       + =Outlook= 115:114 Ja 17 ‘17 40w

         =Pratt= p31 Jl ‘17 10w


=TALBOT, NEVILLE STUART.= Thoughts on religion at the front. *80c
Macmillan 17-18383

  “Mr Talbot arrives at the conclusion that ‘on the whole there is not a
  great articulate revival of the Christian religion at the front.’ As
  one of the causes, he admits, as an Anglican, that ‘religion as taught
  by the Church of England has a feeble grip on the masses,’ and, taking
  a wider view, he does not think that ‘Christianity as at present
  expressed and presented to men in the church (in the wider sense of
  the word) is prima facie that which can win and possess them.’ Too
  much emphasis is laid on things not characteristically Christian;
  while the ecclesiasticism of ‘Catholic Christianity’ and the
  subjectivism of ‘Protestantism’ both interfere with the appeal of
  Christianity through the church.”—The Times [London] Lit Sup

         =Ath= p95 F ‘17 130w

  “It contains barely a hundred pages of large type, but every page is
  full of matter. ... For Mr Talbot has a rare gift of insight and an
  unusual candour; and his study of the religion of the British soldier,
  officer and private, has given him an idea of the strength and
  weakness of British religion generally,”

       + =Spec= 118:543 My 12 ‘17 340w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 16 ‘17 370w (Reprinted from The
         Times [London] Lit Sup)

  “A sincere and candid little book.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p59 F 1 ‘17 230w


=TALBOT, WINTHROP=,[2] comp. and ed. Americanization. (Handbook ser.)
*$1.50 Wilson, H. W. 325.7 18-1496

  “This volume on Americanism and Americanization is offered as a means
  for further clarifying our national thought in regard to present vital
  problems.” (Explanatory note) The book consists of selected reprints,
  including both prose and poetry, arranged to form three parts:
  Principles of Americanism; Essentials of Americanization; Technic of
  race assimilation. In part 3 attention is given to the part played by
  school, home, library, labor union, etc, in the Americanization of the
  immigrant. A classified bibliography of forty pages is a feature of
  the volume.

  “A useful book for any one interested in the problem of making a good,
  clean amalgam out of the heterogeneous contents of our racial
  melting-pot.”

       + =Outlook= 118:194 Ja 30 ‘18 50w

  “The editor has succeeded in elucidating by a sufficient number of
  quotations and extracts those phases of that process which just now
  hold public attention and permit of rapid progress in spite of war
  conditions.” B. L.

       + =Survey= 39:526 F 9 ‘18 150w


=TARBELL, IDA MINERVA.= Life of Abraham Lincoln. new ed 2v il *$5 (2½c)
Macmillan 17-25788

  The scheme of things that made Lincoln a leader of democracy more than
  fifty years ago takes on new meaning and interest as we try to throw
  light on the scheme of things that has forced another great president
  into similar leadership. Especially timely, therefore, is the
  reappearance of this Lincoln biography, published first in 1900. A
  twenty-page preface points out the notable new material that has bean
  added to the collections of Lincolniana in the past seventeen years;
  and shows both that these recent contributions enlarge Lincoln and
  clear up our view of him and that, in putting down the strength and
  the weakness of him over and over again, we know him better and can
  judge him more fairly both as man and leader.

  “In the present crisis of the nation I do not know any better
  biography, any better book, indeed, any more encouraging, more
  illuminating, than the story of the life of the greatest of all
  Americans. And no one has told that story in a better, more informing
  way than has Miss Tarbell.” F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 46:325 N ‘17 1100w

  “The seventeen years since the first publication of this book have
  strengthened the verdict then given that it is one of the most vivid
  and authentic biographies ever written of ‘the first American.’”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 N 14 ‘17 250w

  Reviewed by L. E. Robinson

         =Dial= 64:148 F 14 ‘18 1750w

  “One of the most authoritative and reliable biographies of the
  martyred president. ... There is a report of what is known as the
  ‘Last speech,’ a most important contribution in itself.”

       + =Lit D= 55:52 D 8 ‘17 150w

  “The twenty-page new preface which she writes for this edition is
  notable for its very able summing up of the influence which recent
  publications exert upon our conception of Lincoln and for its firm
  envisaging of Lincoln in the light of this new knowledge.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:445 N 4 ‘17 500w


=TARLEAU, LISA YSAYE.= Inn of disenchantment. *$1.25 (8c) Houghton 814
17-24509

  Contents: The princess and the dragon; The true story of Bluebeard;
  Facts; The eidolon; The new leaf; Cheering a lady; Sousa; Questions;
  Spring; Grand’ma Ninon; Psychical research; The irrational lady; These
  degenerate days; Magic advertisements; Arcadia.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:159 F ‘18

  “Anyone cherishing the belief that a charming and perfect style should
  be the characteristic of the essay and taking up ‘The inn of
  disenchantment’ would find in the very first sentence some color for
  thinking that instead of being an inn of disenchantment it was a book
  of disenchantment. Yet that is the end of our censure. The fifteen
  essays are quite delightful. The humor is subtle.” N. H. D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 N 21 ‘17 550w

       + =Cleveland= p134 D ‘17 50w

       + =Nation= 105:724 D 27 ‘17 150w

  “Fifteen little essays, ... written, nearly all of them, in a minor
  key. ... Disenchantment, the charm of the unattainable, life’s
  compromises—these form the bases of the themes. A delicate touch, a
  feeling for the values of words, makes them unusually attractive,
  though at times they become a little too precise.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:388 O 7 ‘17 100w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 27 ‘17 200w


=TASHIRO, SHIRO.= Chemical sign of life. (Science ser.) il *$1 Univ. of
Chicago press 577 17-8224

  The author is instructor in physiological chemistry in the University
  of Chicago. “This little book by the inventor of the biometer tells of
  the discovery of a chemical method of distinguishing living from dead
  tissue and of measuring the quantity of life, and explains the modus
  operandi.” (Boston Transcript)

  “Of great value to the student; the public in general will care only
  for results.”

         =Boston Transcript= p7 S 12 ‘17 120w

       + =Nation= 104:561 My 3 ‘17 450w

       + =Nature= 100:186 N 8 ‘17 90w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:76 My ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:141 My ‘17 10w


=TATLOCK, JESSIE MAY.= Greek and Roman mythology. il *$1.50 Century 292
17-3155

  “Miss Tatlock, the author of the present volume of mythology, is a
  teacher at Miss Spence’s school in New York City. Both for brevity and
  simplicity she has tried only to include the best-known and most
  attractive of the classical myths. In her index she makes mention of
  many which space has forbidden to her to include. In order that the
  student may be able to retain as much as possible of the subject, Miss
  Tatlock has tried to mention only the important names in telling the
  stories. Moreover by cross reference and reiteration she has striven
  to impress these names on the minds of readers, so that they will
  remain fixed.”—Boston Transcript

  “In no way supplants Gayley as a comprehensive reference manual; but
  its simplicity of language, clearness of arrangement and distinctness
  of print make it especially attractive as a text book for the younger
  student and for the general public seeking a pleasant acquaintance
  with the subject. Both illustrations and quotations are taken entirely
  from Greek and Roman sources, and Greek names are used in preference
  to Roman. Thus it has more unity and is more Greek in feeling than
  Guerber, although gives more details.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:4 O ‘17

  “In every way an admirable textbook for the use of students.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 Mr 24 ‘17 190w

       + =Ind= 91:231 Ag 11 ‘17 60w

  “Appendices give the pronunciation of names and a list of poems and
  dramas based on the myths. Ninety-nine illustrations add to the
  value. ... The publishers have used calendered paper throughout and
  provided a neat and substantial binding. The volume is valuable alike
  for classes and as a reference-book in the home for those who have no
  dictionary of mythology.”

       + =Lit D= 54:269 Ap 28 ‘17 280w

  “There are many people who do not believe that children should be
  allowed to read these myths, because they are not considered as
  conducive to a high standard of morals. This book easily dispels such
  fears, for any boy or girl of high school age can read and enjoy all
  of the stories without any danger to his or her morals.” J. G.
  Glassberg

       + =N Y Call= p15 Ap 29 ‘17 600w

         =N Y Times= 22:530 D 2 ‘17 50w

  “These versions of the most famous and interesting of the stories of
  Greek mythology are brief, simple and readable.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:553 N ‘17 40w

  “The chief merit of this book, which places it above the Guerber and
  Gayley textbooks on mythology, is its unity. ... The appendixes are
  extremely valuable for general reference. The pictures of standard
  works of art are worthy of favorable comment.” Adaline Lincoln

       + =School R= 25:301 Ap ‘17 270w


=TAUBENHAUS, JACOB JOSEPH.= Culture and diseases of the sweet pea; with
an introd. by Melville T. Cook. il *$1.75 Dutton 716 17-16080

  “In the preface the announcement is made that this book is primarily
  intended to be a practical treatise for use by both growers of sweet
  peas and investigators. ... The first eighty-nine pages are devoted to
  explicit cultural directions which have been prepared for the author
  by specialists. The following ninety-five pages are given to a
  consideration of greenhouse and field troubles, including nine
  diseases of fungous origin, one of bacterial origin and a brief
  summary of the several insect pests. Due space is given in the closing
  chapters, in a clear, concise manner, to methods of prevention and
  control of these maladies.” (Science) “The author is a plant
  pathologist and physiologist in charge at the Experiment station of
  the Agricultural and mechanical college of Texas.” (R of Rs)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:84 D ‘17

  Reviewed by M. T. Cook

       + =Bot Gaz= 65:194 F ‘18 160w

         =Ind= 91:297 Ag 25 ‘17 40w

  “Prof. Melville T. Cook, of Rutgers college, commends the book as both
  practical and scientific, equally useful to the layman, the commercial
  grower and the scientist.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:220 Ag ‘17 100w

  “The person of less than collegiate training would find himself
  hopelessly lost if he attempted to wade through certain paragraphs in
  this book. ... The book is well and amply illustrated, is unusually
  free from typographical errors and gives the impression of being
  condensed yet complete.” F. A. Wolf

   + + — =Science= n s 46:316 S 28 ‘17 350w

  “The only book of its kind to which the amateur sweet-pea grower may
  turn for complete instructions on the growing and care of sweet peas.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ag 2 ‘17 220w


=TAYLOR, A. H. E.= Future of the southern Slavs. *$3 (3c) Dodd 949.7
(Eng ed 17-29200)

  “My object,” says the author, “has been to attempt to set forth the
  main features of the southern Slav problem as they exist to-day, and
  the solution at which we should aim. Of necessity, in discussing
  territorial questions I have assumed such a complete victory for the
  Allies as will result in the dismemberment of Austria.” (Preface) The
  book is made up of the following chapters: A plea for Serbia; A sketch
  of Serb history; The renascence of Serbia; The problem of the
  Adriatic; Proposed frontiers; Macedonia: the Serbo-Bulgarian treaty of
  1912; The settlement with Bulgaria; The future southern Slav state;
  Some problems of the new state; The European importance of the
  southern Slavs. There is one large folding map.

         =Ath= p531 O ‘17 120w

  “This book is, in fact, a conclusive demonstration of the wisdom of
  the buffer state theory, an unanswerable argument for the fusion of
  the southern Slavs, whether in a federal, dual, or unitary state. It
  should be widely read. Mention must be made of the ethnographic map
  included in the volume by permission of the Jugoslav committee.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:508 D 2 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Taylor discusses fully and frankly the problem of the eastern
  Adriatic, but, like a good many ardent friends of Serbia, he is far
  less sympathetic to Italy than he ought to be.”

     + — =Spec= 119:356 O 6 ‘17 1350w

  “His chapter on this topic [Italy and Dalmatia] is interesting, well
  argued, and adequately fortified with historical analogies. ... One of
  the most valuable sections of Mr Taylor’s book is his sympathetic
  account of the death, dormancy, and resurrection of the Serbian
  people.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p485 O 11 ‘17 1650w


=TAYLOR, CHARLES FREMONT.= Conclusive peace; presenting the historically
logical, and a feasible, plan of action for the coming peace conference,
which will coordinate and harmonize Europe, and the world. 50c (1½c)
Winston 341 17-4982

  The author says, “In the past, treaties of peace have contained the
  seeds of future war because they have not provided means by which
  peace may lead to continued peace. Peace having been used in the
  preparation for war and in sowing the seeds of war, the natural and
  inevitable result was war. Such a peace has never been and cannot be
  conclusive. ... As long as the minds of Europe dwell on competitive
  national military power instead of on peaceful international
  cooperation for mutual benefit, there can be no conclusive peace.” His
  purpose in this book is to outline a plan for cooperation. Some of his
  practical suggestions are free access to the seas for all nations, a
  European commerce commission, a permanent international congress.

  “Mr Taylor’s little book, however frankly amateurish in approach, does
  suggest that the average American can think about the war without
  overmuch affection or hostility for either side. It is neutral in the
  best sense. Yet it necessarily has the defects of such a virtue—while
  not doctrinaire, ‘A conclusive peace’ is a bit too impatient with the
  muddle of actual passions and hopes, too confident that the essential
  reasonableness of a harmonized Europe will of itself create harmony.
  But one genuinely constructive suggestion does emerge.”

     + — =New Repub= 50:55 F 10 ‘17 350w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:9 Ja ‘17

  “In the simple form in which Mr Taylor first presents the idea it is
  well worth considering, but he finally rides it rather fast and far
  and even overworks his imagination in providing it with detailed
  developments.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:35 F 4 ‘17 110w

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 11 ‘17 250w


=TAYLOR, CHARLES KEEN.=[2] Boys’ camp manual. il *$1.25 Century 355.7
17-22879

  “A handbook of military and all-round training.” (Sub-title) Contents:
  Organization of camps and weekly-schedule; Establishing the camp;
  Physical training; Formal military drill; Signaling; Field and other
  exercises; Camp interests and special observations. The author is
  director of Camp Penn, under military-age camp near Plattsburgh.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:78 D ‘17


=TAYLOR, HANNIS.= Cicero, a sketch of his life and works. il *$3.50
McClurg 16-20121

  “This new survey of the great Roman statesman’s career, written from
  the viewpoint of an American student of constitutions, ancient and
  modern, presents Cicero as the ideal defender of the Roman
  constitution, and the ‘embodiment of the departing spirit of Roman
  republicanism.’ Some of the chapter headings may serve to indicate the
  way in which Dr Taylor has grouped and marshalled his materials: Stoic
  philosophy and Roman law; Cicero’s Greek culture; The Roman bar in
  Cicero’s time; The Roman constitution; Cicero as leader of the Roman
  bar; Cicero as a statesman; Cicero and Pompey; Cicero and Cæsar; The
  duel to the death of Antony.”—R of Rs

  “The most interesting chapters deal with the Roman constitution and
  the Roman bar in the height of its power. On the whole the life is
  written in too laudatory a strain, and Cicero’s influence on early
  Christian thought exaggerated. An excellent and complete anthology of
  Cicero’s most striking utterances concludes the volume.”

     + — =Cath World= 105:400 Je ‘17 110w

  “In dealing with Cicero as a man, Mr Taylor writes from an entirely
  sympathetic point of view, yielding in no particular to the
  Drumann-Mommsen assault, which is now very generally regarded as
  having injured the fame of two eminent German historians far more than
  that of Cicero. ... As ‘a commentary on the Roman constitution,’ the
  book is not adequate. ... The Ciceronian ‘anthology’ with which the
  book closes was a project so well worth while that it should have been
  based upon a very thorough and independent rereading of Cicero’s
  entire works. As it stands, much of the material has been picked up
  from secondary sources, with a certain amount of annoying and
  unnecessary repetition, and displaying various grades of skill, or
  want of skill, in translation.”

     + — =Dial= 62:403 My 3 ‘17 950w

       + =Lit D= 54:267 F 3 ‘17 700w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:182 D ‘16

         =R of Rs= 54:681 D ‘16 100w


=TAYLOR, JAY LAIRD BURGESS.= Handbook for rangers and woodsmen. il
*$2.50 Wiley 634.9 17-1185

  This work, by a forest ranger in the United States forest service, is
  not to be considered an official publication, says the author. It has
  been prepared however with the permission of the Secretary of
  agriculture, who has given criticism and advice. Its object is “to
  serve as a guide for inexperienced men in woods work.” The author has
  had in mind the problems that confront the ranger in government, state
  or private employ, but he expresses the belief that the book may be of
  value to others whose work or recreation takes them into the woods.
  Contents: Equipment; Construction work; General field work; Live
  stock; Miscellaneous. Tables and other items of information are given
  in an appendix. There are numerous illustrations and diagrams, a
  glossary and an index. The book is of convenient pocket size.

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:44 Mr ‘17

  “‘This handbook is welcome as a most valuable addition to our forest
  literature, since it is believed that it will be of inestimable value
  to both those who are just starting in the profession and to the older
  men who want a reference work on the various practical subjects
  covered.’” R. C. B.

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:348 Ap ‘17 50w (Reprinted from Journal of
         Forestry p124 Ja ‘17)

  “‘Mr Taylor has prepared a useful handbook for those who are
  inexperienced in woodcraft, which was compiled after eight years of
  field work with the United States forest service. ... Numerous
  illustrations aid in giving an understanding of the text.’”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:467 My ‘17 70w (Reprinted from Forest Leaves
         p31 Ap ‘17)

         =St Louis= 15:174 Je ‘17


=TAYLOR, KATHARINE HAVILAND.= Cecilia of the pink roses. il *$1.25 (2½c)
Doran 17-13951

  Cecilia was born in a tenement and this is a story of her gradual
  ascent in social life and her natural sweet-heartedness through all
  the trials that the process involved. Her mother died of hardship and
  when, after her death, through his knowledge of bricks and a kindly
  priest’s knowledge of the world, her father made money, everything
  that would have been lavished upon the wife was showered upon the
  daughter. It was the priest who guided Cecilia through her
  difficulties from childhood to marriage, and in spite of the charm of
  the heroine, Father McGowan remains the outstanding character of the
  book.

  “Not since the advent of Pollyanna have we found in fiction a little
  girl who seemed to promise so much in the way of popularity as does
  this little Cecilia. ... The story is essentially a love story.
  Everyone, including the hero, is in love with Cecilia from the
  first. ... Sympathy and humor run through the story.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 30 ‘17 460w

  “Frankly sentimental books often disarm the worldly-wise by simple
  charm. Katharine Haviland Taylor has done this in her first book.
  Apart from minor faults—such as dragging the unwarned reader too
  suddenly from one scene to another, and frequent repetition of the
  same word in a paragraph—‘Cecilia of the pink roses’ is as sweet and
  fresh as the flowers themselves.”

       + =Dial= 62:528 Je 14 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Times= 22:250 Jl 1 ‘17 200w

  “This is the author’s first book, and while it is perhaps a bit
  overenthusiastic and somewhat loosely put together, it is pretty and
  entertaining in its picture of charming young girlhood.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 320w


=TAYLOR, WILLIAM THOMAS, and BRAYMER, DANIEL HARVEY.= American
hydroelectric practice. il *$5 McGraw 621.34 17-15204

  “More than one-half of the volume is taken up with electrical
  subjects. The hydraulic material is given in the first two chapters
  and in a few tables and diagrams. This hydraulic material, as stated
  in the preface, has been largely supplied by Mr Taylor. ... The work
  carries the subtitle, ‘A compilation of useful data and information on
  the design, construction and operation of hydro-electric systems from
  the penstocks to distribution lines,’ which well describes its scope.
  A considerable portion of the contents consists of articles which have
  appeared in technical journals, particularly descriptions of
  hydro-electric plants.”—Engin News-Rec

  “A useful work of reference. ... A notable and commendable feature of
  the book is the entire absence of half-tone illustrations. Line
  drawings are used throughout, thus obviating the necessity of using
  paper with a highly glazed surface and showing clearly, in diagrams
  and cross-sections, what could not be presented so exactly and with
  sufficient detail in any other way.” Alfred Still

     + — =Electrical Review= 71:243 Ag 11 ‘17 500w

  “The book suffers from the limitations of the second-hand nature of
  its contents and from its general plan. ... Difficulties arising from
  the use of borrowed material are noticeable. ... Much reliance should
  not be placed on the material in the book without independently
  checking its accuracy.” L: F. Moody

     – + =Engin News-Rec= 79:323 Ag 16 ‘17 1450w

  “Excellent bibliography.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p8 Jl ‘17 70w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:659 O ‘17 100w


=TEASDALE, SARA (MRS ERNST B. FILSINGER)=, comp. Answering voice; one
hundred love lyrics by women. *$1.25 Houghton 811.08 17-25293

  The author has collected here “the most beautiful love-lyrics written
  in English by women since the middle of the last century.” (Preface)
  Only two of the hundred lyrics included are of an earlier date—Lady
  Barnard’s “Auld Robin Gray” and Susanna Blamire’s “Siller crown.” No
  long poems are included, and no translations, and the compiler has
  avoided “poems in which the poet dramatized a man’s feelings rather
  than her own.” Some of the authors included are: Amy Lowell, Christina
  Rossetti, Emily Dickinson, Moira O’Neill, Edith M. Thomas, Sarojini
  Naidu, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Lizette Woodworth Reese, Harriet
  Monroe, Alice Meynell and Grace Fallow Norton. There is an index of
  first lines and an index of authors.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:87 D ‘17

  “Miss Teasdale has not taken away the joy of discovery by giving us
  only poems already belonging to us. We are the richer by many lovely
  things unknown before, and while all anthologies have their heights
  and their levels, one wanders through this one with few
  disappointments and with an almost constant sense of charm and
  beauty.” J. B. Rittenhouse

       + =Bookm= 46:441 D ‘17 870w

  “No one has written better love songs than [the compiler] has in the
  past ten years, and so she brings to her task of selection a perfect
  understanding of the mood in all its various keys. Her very greatest
  service by virtue of her original ability is in purging the emotions
  of sentimentality, presenting only the pure gold of sentiment. ...
  Practically all the most important women writers of today are
  represented.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 26 ‘17 550w

       + =Cleveland= p134 D ‘17 110w

  “The bulk of the selections is from the work of American women. Of
  these Edith Wharton’s sonnet beginning ‘Yet for one rounded moment I
  will be’ for intensity of feeling, intellectual strength, passionate
  color and poetic grace and beauty does not suffer when compared with
  the sonnets of Mrs Browning.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:515 D 2 ‘17 340w

  “The anthology does not represent one school or one period to the
  exclusion of any other. One or two of the poems have plots or stories
  connected with them, but as a rule the verses are independent
  lyrics—lyrics abounding in images of purity and dependence. Unlike
  love poems written by men, they are singularly lacking in passion.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 12 ‘17 290w


=TEASDALE, SARA (MRS ERNST B. FILSINGER).= Love songs. *$1.25 Macmillan
811 17-25236

  “Besides new poems, this book contains lyrics taken from ‘Rivers to
  the sea,’ ‘Helen of Troy and other poems,’ and one or two from an
  earlier volume.” (Prefatory note) Some of the poems hitherto
  unpublished in book form appeared in Harper’s, Century, Scribner’s,
  Poetry, and other periodicals.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:121 Ja ‘18

  “Here is the impulsive, wholly unconscious charm that belongs to
  everything Miss Teasdale writes. She is the Elizabethan of to-day; one
  of the purest and clearest voices in our poetic literature.” J. B.
  Rittenhouse

       + =Bookm= 46:442 D ‘17 480w

  “A gathering of her very best songs written to date. Love is
  illuminated in these songs as it has not been illuminated before by a
  single poet, in American poetry. Every mood is pure, whether it is joy
  or sorrow, yearning or denial; and the purity of emotion is fully
  matched by a golden simplicity of expression.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 N 10 ‘17 1150w

       + =Cleveland= p5 Ja ‘18 60w

  “A bookful of loveliness is this new volume of Sara Teasdale’s verse:
  new not in the sense that all the poems it contains are recent ones,
  but that it represents a lately gathered treasury of lyrics. They are
  characterized, as her work has always been, by a musical facility,
  strong imagery, and that note of mingled joy and pain which haunts the
  moments of love, whether in its inception, its fulfillment, or its
  loss.”

       + =Dial= 63:457 N 8 ‘17 300w

       + =Lit D= 56:38 Ja 19 ‘18 450w

  Reviewed by G: Cronyn

         =N Y Call= p14 N 18 ‘17 710w

  “Miss Teasdale writes from a compelling impulse; she does not mask it
  nor hide it, but utters it, and so it befalls that she speaks the
  secret word of us all. ... She is first, last, and always a
  singer. ... In the present volume, ‘Love songs,’ her best and most
  characteristic work is presented, since it is this theme which has
  chiefly inspired her.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:416 O 21 ‘17 1100w

  “Miss Teasdale chooses verse forms that express her moods exactly.
  Generally the lines are short and simple, yet musical in the extreme.
  Ever in her love verse she is fundamentally a singer of the out of
  doors.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 N 15 ‘17 250w


=TEMPERLEY, HAROLD WILLIAM VAZEILLE.= History of Serbia. il *$4
Macmillan 949.7 (Eng ed 17-16315)

  “Mr Temperley’s able conspectus of Serbian history begins with the
  coming of the Jugo-Slavs from their original home in the region of the
  Black sea, and around the Dniester and the Bug; includes an account of
  the Serbian mediæval empire; tells the sombre tale of Kossovo;
  describes the Turkish occupation; and relates some of the deeds of the
  Black George (Kara George) and Milosh Obrenovitch, which led to the
  expulsion of the Turks from Serbia. He concludes with a detailed
  review of the periods of Austro-Hungarian and Russophile influence, as
  well as of the thorny problems associated with Macedonia. The book ...
  contains a good bibliography.” (Ath) “Captain Temperley ends his
  narrative at the year 1910, thus omitting the Serbian triumphs of 1912
  and 1913.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

       + =Ath= p314 Je ‘17 180w

  “The main theme of this well-documented study is the effect of the
  revival of Serbian independence in the nineteenth century on the
  Balkan situation, and the attitude of the great powers toward the
  country.”

       + =Cleveland= p116 S ‘17 50w

  “The book bristles with evidence of painstaking research; it is well
  documented; and it contains a select bibliography of very satisfactory
  proportions. Mr Temperley is a master of sound historical criticism.”
  F: A. Ogg

       + =Dial= 63:638 D 20 ‘17 460w

  “The author has not entered into details, and deals very briefly
  indeed with the latter years of medieval Danubian Serbia, for which
  much might have been gleaned from Kritóboulos, the Imbrian biographer
  of Mohammed II, whom he omits from his excellent bibliography. But we
  can strongly recommend his book to all who desire to obtain a grasp of
  the salient facts in the evolution of the Serbian people. He abounds
  in admirable appreciations of Serbian national problems. ... A few
  errors of detail may be pointed out. The book contains three maps.” W:
  Miller

   + + — =Eng Hist R= 32:589 O ‘17 620w

  “A brilliant recapitulation of brilliant deeds by a people who for
  more than a thousand years fought almost perpetually for [the
  nation’s] existence against rabid enemies. An interesting chapter is
  that on the Macedonian question. The book is one that every student of
  the Balkans, and Serbia in particular, will find invaluable.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:330 S 9 ‘17 600w

  “This history of Serbia is the work not only of a traveller but of a
  scholar. It is highly judicial in dealing with notoriously
  controversial subjects, and it embodies a good deal of diplomatic
  information acquired by careful research at the record office. It is
  an engrossing story of racial tenacity which Mr Temperley relates.”

       + =Spec= 118:671 Je 16 ‘17 1700w

  “Should be read by all who desire to know something of the
  complexities of the Near Eastern question.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p291 Je 21 ‘17 2100w


=TEMPLE, WILLIAM.= Mens creatrix. *$2.50 Macmillan 201 17-28086

  “The title is chosen in compliment to Bergson’s ‘Creative
  evolution.’ ... It does not indicate the full purpose of the book.”
  (Spec) “The plan of the volume may be briefly outlined. Part 1 deals
  with epistemological and metaphysical questions. Part 2 is a
  discussion of art, its meaning and value. Part 3 deals with the
  problem of conduct; while part 4 investigates the general nature of
  religion in its relation to science, art, and morality. The preceding
  four divisions constitute book 1. In book 2 the writer takes up the
  problem of revealed religion and finds in it the ultimate solution of
  the issues he has raised.” (Hibbert J)

  “Covers a wide field, and discusses problems of a very varied kind. Mr
  Temple’s work is unequal: some of his discussions are suggestive and
  helpful in a high degree, while others are rapid, meagre, and
  disappointing. But even at his worst the author is never superficial
  and commonplace, and when at his best he is very vigorous and
  stimulating. The style is always clear, and the reader is never in
  doubt about the author’s meaning. ... Some of the most fresh and
  suggestive passages in the book will be found in the section on art.
  He is at his best in his chapter on ‘Tragedy,’ where he works out his
  principles in detail and enforces them with a wealth of
  illustrations.” G. Galloway

     + — =Hibbert J= 15:689 Jl ‘17 1850w

  “Mr Temple has not exactly shown us that all roads of human
  speculation lead to the Anglican communion, but has shown, with great
  charm of style and lucidity of dialectic, how particular types of
  metaphysics, aesthetics, and ethics may be made to form a symmetrical
  whole with Christian theology. ... He says many wise things by the
  way, especially in his chapter on education.” T. S. Eliot

         =Int J Ethics= 27:542 Jl ‘17 400w

  “Mr Temple modestly disclaims any pretension ‘to do for our day the
  work that St Thomas Aquinas did for his,’ but his thoughtful and
  suggestive study will be as helpful to readers perplexed by modern
  difficulties as was the ‘Summa’ of the learned Dominican to the
  mediaeval doubter. ... His discussion of ‘The problem of evil’ must be
  carefully read. In essence it is an expansion of the Pauline doctrine
  in the Epistle to the Romans; but Mr Temple brings a fresh mind to
  bear on the perplexing problem. ... It is difficult even to indicate
  in a review the merits of a book so closely reasoned, so full of
  striking ideas and happy phrases, and withal so devout and modest in
  tone.”

       + =Spec= 118:413 Ap 7 ‘17 2000w


=TERHUNE, ALBERT PAYSON.= Dollars and cents. il *$1.35 (2½c) Shores
17-13188

  Dan and Madge Hilyer are living on thirteen dollars a week when the
  story opens. Poverty had come upon them suddenly, and their
  prosperity, when it comes, is another of fortune’s quick changes.
  During the days of pinching economy it had been the wife who bore the
  brunt, and when sudden wealth comes, she cannot make the transition.
  At restaurants Madge figured up the cost of every dish. At the opera
  she could not enjoy the music for thinking of the price of seats. Taxi
  fares were to her a criminal extravagance. The result of this state of
  mind on her part, combined with her husband’s jealousy of Arthur
  Crewe, the old lover from whom she had once borrowed money, is marital
  unhappiness. A crisis is averted and harmony restored by the
  intervention of Arthur Crewe, who succeeds in bringing both husband
  and wife to a saner point of view.

  “The situation is an interesting and a natural one; but unfortunately
  the author has seen fit to lay hold of it and, instead of developing
  it in a reasonable way, pulls it down to the level of melodrama.”

         =N Y Times= 22:265 Jl 15 ‘17 250w

  “The action of the story is swift, almost breathless in passages. The
  novel is filled with ‘scenes’ which one mentally stages. The suspense
  is sustained until the very last page.” R. D. Moore

         =Pub W= 91:1319 Ap 21 ‘17 430w

  “The story is interesting and the action is rapid and emotional.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 8 ‘17 250w


=THETA=, pseud. War flying. *$1 Houghton 940.91 (Eng ed 17-10196)

  Letters written by a young officer, barely nineteen, of the Royal
  flying corps, to his home people during his period of training and
  later when in active service. The letters are prefaced by a parody on
  Kipling entitled “Ordered overseas,” and an introductory chapter
  entitled “The development of an idea.”

       + =Ind= 91:72 Jl 14 ‘17 150w

  “It is not so much a book on flying as it is a revelation of
  character. The quiet pluck, the unconscious gallantry, the serene
  acceptance of a world in chaos, the humor with which this young
  Englishman views the clash of arms from aloft, are qualities which, as
  displayed in this book, help to explain England’s place in this war
  more clearly than any mere official documents can.”

       + =Outlook= 116:412 Jl 11 ‘17 140w

       + =R of Rs= 56:107 Jl ‘17 50w

       + =Spec= 118:239 F 24 ‘17 150w


=THOMAS, CALVIN.= Goethe. *$2 (2c) Holt 17-25237

  Professor Thomas of Columbia university, whose edition of “Faust” has
  long been a standard college text, has written a biographical and
  critical study of Goethe. “Every scholar,” he says “has his own Dante,
  his own Shakspere, his own Goethe. This book presents my Goethe as I
  see him after nearly forty years of university teaching during which
  he has never been long out of my thoughts. ... But this is not the
  work of a hierophant or a panegyrist. ... What I have tried to do is
  to portray him faithfully in those larger aspects of his mind and art
  and life-work that make him so uniquely interesting.” The first
  chapters, about one half of the volume, sketch Goethe’s life. The
  remainder of the book is critical, with chapters devoted to: The
  philosopher; The evolutionist; The believer; The poet; The dramatist;
  The novelist; The critic; Faust. Bibliography, notes and index follow.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:167 F ‘18

  “On the whole it is just what any student of Goethe and of German
  literature would desire: clear, fair and entertaining. The occasional
  versions of poems or prose passages are excellently done.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 23 ‘18 750w

       + =Cleveland= p4 Ja ‘18 110w

  “No matter if a new biography of Goethe were published each month,
  there would still be a place for a book by Professor Thomas. ... But
  as a matter of fact, there was an urgent need for this particular
  work; for unless I am mistaken, there has been no important life of
  Goethe written in English since the year 1855, when the notable
  biography by G. H. Lewes appeared.” W: L. Phelps

       + =Dial= 63:451 N 8 ‘17 1600w

  “A very thoughtful and sympathetic study.”

       + =Ind= 92:56 O 6 ‘17 100w

  “What is most disappointing in Professor Thomas’s volume is his
  failure to appreciate Goethe’s importance as critic. ... With all its
  limitations, however, the book is scholarly, interesting, and
  provocative of thought. We take it that the metrical translations in
  chapter 9, reprinted from an earlier essay on Goethe, are Professor
  Thomas’s own. They are admirable.”

     + — =Nation= 105:721 D 27 ‘17 1750w

  “It is possible now for an American scholar to put aside the trivial
  and ephemeral and concentrate attention on those aspects of Goethe’s
  life and work that ‘belong to the ages.’ That is what Professor Thomas
  has done in this volume.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:550 N ‘17 200w


=THOMAS, EDWARD.= Literary pilgrim in England. il *$3 Dodd 820.4
17-26883

  A volume of literary essays. The studies of English men of letters are
  grouped geographically, but there has been no effort to link them
  together as objects of a “pilgrimage.” A few of the modern writers are
  included, and occasionally there is in the grouping a pleasant
  juxtaposition of the old and the new, as in the section on the west
  country, devoted to Herrick; Coleridge; and W. H. Hudson. Pictures in
  color and in monotone attractively illustrate the book.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:159 F ‘18

  “As some of the biographies relate to Scotsmen and Scottish places,
  the title might have been ‘A literary pilgrim in Britain.’”

       + =Ath= p597 N ‘17 90w

  “Well-printed, artistically illustrated, entertainingly written, this
  book can be recommended for the pleasant employment of an idle hour.”

       + =Cath World= 106:689 F ‘18 100w

  “The whole book, despite Mr Thomas’s pleasant vein of description and
  criticism, scarcely rises above the commonplace, if not the trite.”

     – + =Nation= 105:517 N 8 ‘17 110w

       + =N Y Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 230w

     + — =Sat= R 124:510 D 22 ‘17 400w

  “In the course of the studies Mr Thomas occasionally becomes the
  critic, and we can only say that we prefer him as pilgrim. Where,
  however, his sympathies are apparently unhampered, Mr Thomas pursues
  his pilgrimage and his criticism in a most attractive manner, of which
  the essays on John Clare and W. H. Hudson are two conspicuous
  examples.”

     + — =Spec= 119:sup548 N 17 ‘17 230w

  “Edward Thomas affords another instance of literary talent lost in the
  great war. This criticism, for all its unpretentiousness, is of the
  type that initiates new readers into the delights and consolations of
  books. It is full of meaning, utterly clear and concrete. There is
  hardly a blurred thought or impression in the whole work and there are
  no undiscerning judgments.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 1100w

  “Never perfunctory or conventional, but always saying what strikes him
  as the true or interesting or characteristic thing, Mr Thomas brings
  the very look of the fields and roads before us; he brings the poets,
  too; and no one will finish the book without a sense that he knows and
  respects the author.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p489 O 11 ‘17 1500w


=THOMAS, GEORGE CLIFFORD.= Practical book of outdoor rose growing for
the home garden. il *$2 Lippincott 716 17-13518

  “A new, enlarged edition at half price of the best manual on roses for
  the amateur as well as the rose-grower (Booklist 11:449). Growing
  directions and labels are excellent, also the lists of varieties.
  There are twenty halftones of bushes and sixteen beautiful color
  plates of varieties of roses.” (Wis Lib Bul) The first edition of this
  book was entered in the Digest in 1914.

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:155 My ‘17 50w


=THOMAS, W. BEACH.= With the British on the Somme. *6s Methuen, London
940.91

  Part of the material in this book has already appeared in print. Mr
  Thomas emphasizes “to a great extent, the feats of the English
  soldier, the Cockney especially, as distinct from the Scot, the
  Irishman, or the Colonial.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup)

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:115 My ‘17 100w

  “Mr Beach Thomas is one of the not too many newspaper correspondents
  who can write acceptably about the war. He does not indulge in gush or
  clap-trap. His well-knit narrative is profoundly dramatic.”

       + =Sat R= 123:346 Ap 14 ‘17 800w

  “Mr Thomas has written a capital account of the battle of the Somme,
  sketching it in broad outlines, dwelling on some of the more
  picturesque episodes, but abstaining from any attempt at a formal
  history. He illustrates the rapid developments of modern warfare that
  came about during this battle.”

       + =Spec= 118:675 Je 16 ‘17 130w

  “Mr Thomas has been wonderfully successful in conveying all the horror
  and the little glory of modern war. His wish was to give an idea of
  the war rather than to write a continuous narrative of the things
  which he experienced. ... The book will be a storehouse of
  information. It is vivid, modest, and judicial.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p146 Mr 29 ‘17 1150w


=THOMPSON, CARL DEAN.= Municipal ownership. *$1 (5c) Huebsch 352
17-14813

  “A brief survey of the extent, rapid growth and the success of
  municipal ownership throughout the world, presenting the arguments
  against private ownership, the failure of regulation and the
  advantages of municipal ownership.” (Subtitle) The author argues that
  private ownership is wrong in theory, saying, “The private ownership
  of a public utility is fundamentally hostile to and inconsistent with
  the public welfare,” and he brings together evidence to show that it
  is unsatisfactory in practice. “Whatever else may be said against
  municipal ownership,” he says, “it is pretty hard to meet the argument
  drawn from practical experience.”

  “Gives references to authorities.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:8 O ‘17

  “The writer’s method is to jumble together a medley of facts and
  figures which seem to favor his side of the argument, wholly
  neglecting all that may be said on the other. Some of the statistics
  are too antiquated to be of any value whatever, as for example those
  which have been so freely drawn from Professor Frank Parsons’ ‘City
  for the people,’ a book published more than sixteen years ago. Errors
  of statement are not infrequent, moreover, and the style of writing
  leaves much to be desired.”

       — =Am Pol Sci= R 11:596 Ag ‘17 100w

  “The chief contribution in this work is an adequate presentation of
  proof that regulation of public utilities is a complete failure and
  that private ownership of public utilities is the most important cause
  of corrupt government. The most serious omission is the failure to
  discuss how municipalities are to secure the funds to acquire their
  public utilities.” B: Marsh

     – + =Ann Am Acad= 74:302 N ‘17 270w

       + =Cleveland= p92 Jl ‘17 50w

         =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 30w

  “The author has produced a readable brief for municipal ownership—as
  thoroughly one-sided as a lawyer’s brief but more open to attack.
  Some, if not most, of the statistical and other data are old and some
  are taken third hand. An instance, possibly one of the worst, may be
  given ... to the effect that the rates charged by privately owned
  waterworks are 43 per cent. higher than those charged by publicly
  owned works. ... The author is using figures more than a quarter
  century old.”

       — =Engin News-Rec= 79:130 Jl 19 ‘17 200w

  “Useful to the upholder of either side of the question.”

       + =Ind= 91:137 Jl 28 ‘17 60w

  “A distinctive contribution to socialist literature. ... There is too
  little evidence at times to support the most sweeping assertions of
  fact. ... Then, too, there are enough inaccuracies to arouse some
  suspicions. ... This little book is, after all, human and socialist
  (although the word socialism does not occur from one cover to the
  other), and it has its failings, both human and socialist. ... It
  lacks those painstaking, thorough, exhaustive qualities for which the
  academician has more time and less need than we. But it is invaluable
  for the facts it does contain and above all for its sturdy effort to
  speak out of concrete experience in a field where the Socialist needs
  it most.” Evans Clark

     + — =N Y Call= p14 My 27 ‘17 770w

         =R of Rs= 56:327 S ‘17 70w

  “Mr Thompson gives us a frankly one-sided presentation—the case for
  municipal ownership.” E: T. Hartman

     + — =Survey= 39:46 O 13 ‘17 130w


=THOMPSON, CLARENCE BERTRAND.= Theory and practice of scientific
management. *$1.75 (3½c) Houghton 658.7 17-24295

  During the past fifteen years the principles and methods of scientific
  management which were formulated and propagated by Frederick Winslow
  Taylor have been thoroughly tested. It is now Mr Thompson’s aim to
  survey the movement and make an appraisal of it. He devotes a chapter
  to “What scientific management is”; one to the originator of the
  movement, Frederick Winslow Taylor; while the body of the discussion
  deals with scientific management in practice, and some economic
  aspects of the movement. The results which are offered are derived
  from personal inspection of plants in twelve states where scientific
  management is in operation and from conferences with owners, managers
  and experts employed.

  “A comprehensive study of history, methods and results.” I. C.

       + =St Louis= 16:15 Ja ‘18 20w


=THOMPSON, D’ARCY WENTWORTH.= On growth and form. il *$6.50 Putnam
18-1383

  “In the author’s own words the purpose of his book is to show ‘that
  throughout the whole range of organic morphology there are innumerable
  phenomena of form which are not peculiar to living things, but which
  are more or less simple manifestations of ordinary physical laws.’
  This thesis Professor Thompson elaborates in a most interesting
  manner, developing with the aid of our fuller knowledge of physical
  forces and of the conditions under which they act, the mode of study
  initiated by Borelli many years ago, and applied, more recently, with
  striking and suggestive results, to several forms of organic activity
  by Rhumbler, Leduc, Przibram, Macallum and others.”—Science

  “It is clear and lucid, and deals with problems of enormous, often of
  surprising, interest—problems of science and problems of philosophy.
  The exposition is so admirable that no one need fear that the
  mathematics will obscure for him the philosophy, or the philosophy the
  science, or the science and philosophy the mathematics. The striking
  success and the amazing simplicity and beauty of the results will
  silence at once any sceptical doubt as to the utility of the method.”
  H. W. Carr

       + =Hibbert J= 15:697 Jl ‘17 2600w

  “This book, at once substantial and stately, is to the credit of
  British science and an achievement for its distinguished author to be
  proud of. It is like one of Darwin’s books, well-considered, patiently
  wrought-out, learned, and cautious—a disclosure of the scientific
  spirit.” J. A. Thomson

     + — =Nature= 100:21 S 13 ‘17 1500w

  “Professor Thompson’s style is marked by a clearness of expression
  which makes every page of interest and his book is one that may well
  be recommended as revealing food for thought and fields for
  investigation which have been too much neglected by students of
  morphology.” J. P. McM.

       + =Science= n s 46:513 N 23 ‘17 960w

  “Though severely technical in appearance, this book is so well written
  and so full of interesting matter that it should not be monopolized by
  the specialists. It throws a new light on evolution.”

       + =Spec= 118:732 Je 30 ‘17 140w

  “An interesting and valuable book on a topic of enduring interest.
  Professor Thompson himself is careful to reiterate that he is
  propounding a method, advocating a principle rather than supplying a
  set of results which he expects the reader to accept. In this sense
  his book commands admiration and respect, and should stimulate a
  lively and productive interest in an aspect of zoology that has fallen
  into neglect.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p245 My 24 ‘17 860w


=THOMPSON, VANCE.= Woman. *$1.25 (3c) Dutton 396 17-7543

  The author comes out fervently as a champion of the new woman in her
  fight for freedom. This rapidly advancing movement toward emancipation
  is the most important thing happening in the world today. All other
  problems “are of relative unimportance beside the overwhelming
  significance of this new fact: the rise of woman.” Women are freeing
  themselves from the over-specialization of sex; and this means the
  freeing of the race. “Woman cannot do her duty to the race unless she
  fulfills her duty to herself. The welfare of the race and the
  individual are as indissoluble as a word and its meaning; they are a
  bi-unity.” The author sketches rapidly the historical position of
  woman, then discusses the present-day significance of the woman
  movement.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:114 Ja ‘18

  “The frankest, truest, simplest and most compact exposition of the
  causes and the meaning of the feminist movement that has ever come to
  my attention. It is also the most entertaining. It is a picturesque
  and a provocative book—but it is not likely to provoke in any two
  people just the same feeling about it. Mr Thompson evidently believes
  in the feminist movement very earnestly and ardently. But his book,
  deeply searching and keenly discerning though it is in its discussion
  of most of the phases of the woman problem, grows evasive and even
  blind when it comes down to what is to-day the biggest and most
  difficult practical problem of the whole matter. And that is the
  economic status of married women.” F. F. Kelly

     + — =Bookm= 45:594 Ag ‘17 3000w

  “Singularly clean, wholesome, upstanding, wind-swept, stimulating
  reading, much of which we cannot agree with, it is true, much of which
  will shock us, as it was meant to, all of which will quicken us.
  Superficially humorous, fundamentally serious and sincere, this book
  is a distinct contribution to the subject.”

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 250w

       — =Cath World= 105:397 Je ‘17 630w

  “On the text, ‘Life is a conspiracy against woman,’ he has built up a
  serious, sincere, and stimulating sermon.”

       + =Lit D= 55:36 S 22 ‘17 300w

  “Mr Thompson’s book is not original in the sense of presenting new
  points in feminist thought. But it is unusual and challenging in its
  presentation.”

         =N Y Times= 22:117 Ap 1 ‘17 400w

  “A book every woman will want to read.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:557 My ‘17 130w

  “Mr Thompson occasionally allows his forcefulness to degenerate into
  claptrap, and his stock of haphazard information into an obvious and
  boastful show of knowledge, neither of which can conceivably advance
  the cause for which he purports to be working.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 500w


=THOMSON, EDWARD WILLIAM.= Old man Savarin stories. il *$1.35 Doran
17-24211

  “Stories of Canada and Canadians are rather rare among us. In these
  stories Mr Thomson has brought us a new acquaintance, and that a broad
  one, with the people who are our neighbors to the north. The
  stories—they are seventeen in number—cover a wide range of time and
  circumstance; and it is an interesting fact, to be noted at once, that
  they deal with Canadians as such, of French and Scotch and English
  descent; these are stories from Canada, not from any one class or of
  any one ancestry.”—N Y Times

  “Not only are the stories interesting, but they embody an immense
  field of life.” J. E. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 5 ‘17 1250w

  “They vivify for us many a different kind of feeling in individual,
  party, type.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:366 S 30 ‘17 660w


=THOREAU, HENRY DAVID.= Through the year with Thoreau; sketches of
nature from the writings of H: D: Thoreau; ed. by Herbert W. Gleason. il
*$3 Houghton 818 17-22277

  “The present volume is an endeavor ... to reproduce, with the aid of
  photographs, some of the outdoor scenes and natural phenomena in which
  he [Thoreau] delighted and which he has so graphically described. The
  series of views is limited, of necessity, but a sufficient number are
  given to illustrate Thoreau’s method of nature-study as well as to
  emphasize anew the accuracy and felicity of his nature-descriptions.
  It is hoped, also, that this combination of verbal and pictorial
  representation will stimulate to a wider apprehension and a more vivid
  realization of the beautiful in nature,—thus continuing in a measure,
  Thoreau’s self-appointed mission.” (Preface) The quotations from
  Thoreau, chosen largely, but not wholly, from the “Journals” are
  arranged, as the title suggests, to follow the changing seasons. The
  illustrations, selected from a large collection of photographs by Mr
  Gleason, are related intimately to the text, and include not only
  scenes associated with Thoreau, but studies of the plant and bird life
  described by him. Among them are remarkable pictures of the more
  delicate flowers, leaves and lichens, also of frost crystals.

  “A good gift book for readers of Thoreau.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:51 N ‘17

  “‘Through the year with Thoreau’ is at once a splendid memorial to
  that interpreter of nature, a credit to the Riverside Press as an
  example of beautiful bookmaking, and a satisfying further instance of
  the literary and artistic taste of the author.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 31 ‘17 320w

  “The illustrations are worthy of the poet-naturalist in that they
  include not merely the conventional landscapes and ‘pretty’ flowers,
  but less usual and less promising subjects, such as the skunk-cabbage,
  fungi, icicles under a bank, and the ‘sand-foliage’ produced by liquid
  mud on the snow in the railroad cut. Mr Gleason has put into his
  photographs as much of an artist’s individuality as the wielder of a
  camera can well do.”

       + =Dial= 63:466 N 8 ‘17 260w

  “Quite beyond the average volume of gleanings. The extracts are each
  illustrated by uncommonly fine photographs, and the whole is an
  attractive bit of bookmaking.”

       + =Ind= 91:476 S 22 ‘17 100w

  “Without illustration, Thoreau’s description of early morning fog from
  Nawshawtuct hill, is appreciably less clear and interesting. Again,
  Thoreau’s description of the flower-buds of mountain laurel—‘curiously
  folded in a ten-angled pyramidal form’—gains vastly through the
  picture. ... Its only serious defect is its brevity; in 135 pages it
  is scarcely possible to do more than make a humble beginning in the
  task of illustrating Thoreau’s descriptions of natural scenes and
  phenomena. Yet a much larger book would have been forbiddingly
  expensive.”

       + =Nation= 105:205 Ag 23 ‘17 180w

  “Altogether a beautiful book.”

       + =Outlook= 116:660 Ag 29 ‘17 20w

       + =R of Rs= 56:333 S ‘17 40w


=THORNDIKE, LYNN.= History of medieval Europe; under the editorship of
James T. Shotwell. maps *$2.75 (1c) Houghton 940.1 17-24527

  Professor Thorndike of Western Reserve university has prepared this
  history of Europe from the decline of the Roman empire to the opening
  of the sixteenth century for the college student and the general
  reader. The general plan of the work is “to treat medieval Europe as a
  whole and to hang the story upon a single thread, rather than to
  recount as distinct narratives the respective histories of the
  countries of modern Europe.” Special points to which he calls
  attention in the preface are these: he has given some attention to the
  states and racial groups of central and eastern Europe; he has given
  some prominence to economic and social conditions, omitting many minor
  details of political and military history; he has described the
  background of physical geography; he has referred frequently to source
  material and discussed its relative value; he has avoided fine print
  and footnotes and has made an unusually full index, designed “to serve
  somewhat the same purpose that a vocabulary does in the teaching of a
  language.” There is a brief list of “Guides in historical reading,”
  with supplementary lists at ends of the chapters.

  “A capital textbook, well ordered and well balanced.”

       + =Educ R= 54:529 D ‘17 30w

       + =Ind= 92:261 N 3 ‘17 60w

  “The style escapes the rigid narrative baldness of the compressed
  history for the classroom, yet it does not sacrifice accuracy to
  vivacity. There is a nice balance between economic, social and
  political factors.”

       + =New Repub= 13:56 N 10 ‘17 140w

  “The excellent feature about this book is that it uses events as a
  background for the study of institutions, principles and achievements,
  and thus places the chief emphasis on the intellectual content of
  history, rather than the framework.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 11 ‘17 320w


=THORPE, FRANCIS NEWTON.=[2] Essentials of American constitutional law.
*$1.75 Putnam 342.7

  A volume intended to serve as a text-book in law schools, colleges and
  universities. It has been prepared by a member of the Pennsylvania bar
  who is professor of political science and constitutional law in the
  University of Pittsburgh. The chapter headings indicate the scope of
  the work. Contents: The supreme law; The law of legislative powers (2
  chapters); The law of taxation; The law of commerce; The law of
  contracts and property; The law of the executive power; The law of the
  judicial power; The law of state comity, territories, and possession;
  The law of limitations; The law of fundamental rights; The law of
  citizenship; Appendix—Constitution of the United States and Cases
  cited.


=THORPE, SIR THOMAS EDWARD.= Right Honourable Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe;
a biographical sketch. *$2.50 Longmans 17-298

  “The late Sir Henry Roscoe will be remembered not so much for his
  contributions to the science of chemistry as for what he did to
  enhance the repute of the chemist in England. ... Roscoe achieved so
  much worldly success and made himself so prominent a figure in public
  life that he convinced the ruling class, at any rate, of the
  importance of the chemist, and the royal commissions on which he
  served and the societies in which he took an active part, especially
  the Society of chemical industry, did much to raise the status of
  chemistry as a subject of study and an aid to the manufacturer. ...
  This aspect of his long and useful life is well illustrated in the
  sympathetic memoir which his friend and fellow-worker, Sir Edward
  Thorpe, has written. Roscoe’s own reminiscences, published ten years
  ago, have of course a more personal interest. Sir Edward Thorpe has
  aimed rather at recording Roscoe’s official and scientific work,
  especially in connexion with the Victoria university, of which he
  became a professor in 1857, and for the sake of which he refused the
  virtual offer of the Oxford chair.”—Spec

       + =Ath= p555 N ‘16 500w

       + =Nature= 98:225 N 23 ‘16 700w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:114 F ‘17 60w

         =R of Rs= 56:440 O ‘17 60w

         =St Louis= 5:60 F ‘17

  “Germany was undoubtedly the Mecca of science to Roscoe up to the
  close of his life. ... In the few years before the war he had written
  in German papers of the educated classes, and imagined as many did
  that the difficulties between Germany and England would be met
  successfully by the abhorrence of war in the best minds. ... Sir
  Edward Thorpe remarks as to such appeals that there was a section—a
  not inconsiderable section—of the German public to whom they were not
  made in vain, as was manifested by the publication in Stuttgart of a
  remarkable article on ‘World supremacy of war’ written under the
  nom-de-plume of ‘Nostradamus.’ The part reprint of this article is one
  of the most interesting things in this memoir.”

       + =Sat R= 123:164 F 17 ‘17 600w

       + =Spec= 117:510 O 28 ‘16 550w

  “There are several cases in which the chronological indications might
  have been more precise; and this defect is not compensated by the
  inadequate index, which might easily have been made more useful.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p533 N 9 ‘16 600w


=THURSTAN, VIOLETTA.=[2] Text book of war nursing. *$1.50 (3c) Putnam
610.7

  The author of “Field hospital and flying column” and “The people who
  run” has prepared this book as a practical aid for nurses who expect
  to work near the front, where conditions and methods differ
  considerably from those prevailing in base hospitals at home. The work
  is a result of personal experience under Belgian, Russian and British
  military authorities. Part one consists of three general chapters on
  some of the features of war nursing. The four parts following are
  devoted to: The probationer in a military hospital; The sister in a
  military hospital; Notes on nursing in special cases; Infectious
  diseases. The appendix gives cooking recipes and table of French and
  English money.

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p507 O 18 ‘17 90w


=THURSTON, ERNEST TEMPLE.= Enchantment. *$1.50 (2c) Appleton 17-13720

  At her birth her father had dedicated her to the church. And true
  Catholic that he was, he felt the oath to be sacred. But as the child
  grew, the thought of his oath became more and more distasteful. For
  Patricia was his favorite of the four daughters. Then he made another
  bargain with the parish priest. He would give up his drink, and fond
  enough he was of that, if Patricia could be saved from her fate. The
  bargain was sealed, and for ten years John Desmond kept it. Then under
  stress he broke it, and saw the convent doors opening for his loved
  child. But another man steps in and, not without connivance from the
  father, outwits the authority that all but had its hands on Patricia.

  “Well told, but the embroidery is merely wearisome.”

     + — =Ath= p254 My ‘17 70w

  “A little story of original and engaging flavour.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 45:649 Ag ‘17 470w

  “The solution of each problem is a surprise because it is the justice
  of Erin. ... There is neither logic nor syntax to the plot, but from
  first to last, there is not a dull moment.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 400w

  “In view of Mr Thurston’s intimate acquaintance with the heart and
  mind of the Irish people, this novel, based upon what purports to be a
  phase of Irish Catholicism, can scarcely be regarded otherwise than
  deliberate and willful misrepresentation in both theme and treatment.
  The impious layman whom he presumes to call a ‘good Catholic’ is
  hardly more objectionable than the priest who is tacitly presented as
  typical. Such wretched travesties could not be set forth in good faith
  by any writer save one totally ignorant of the church, especially as
  she is found in Ireland. It is a disagreeable story, founded on a
  preposterous premise.”

       — =Cath World= 105:686 Ag ‘17 180w

       + =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 70w

  “Melodramatic from cover to cover, but has charming style and
  interesting characterizations. ... It is a tale for all those who
  ‘would not give a chapter of old Dumas for the whole boiling of the
  Zolas.’”

     + — =Dial= 63:73 Jl 19 ‘17 100w

  “The situation, the events that follow, might have been set forth with
  all the dry and bitter negativism of a ‘House with the green
  shutters.’ ... Mr Thurston succeeds in investing it with all the
  glamour of romantic feeling, that is, with that mood of faith and
  delight in human nature which may so readily and so indeterminately,
  be dismissed as sentimentalism.”

       + =Nation= 105:69 Jl 19 ‘17 330w

  “‘Enchantment’ is a readable tale, but it is far from being Mr
  Thurston’s best work. Both story and style are labored. And the manner
  that in its spontaneity and fitness helped to make so pretty a tale as
  ‘The city of beautiful nonsense’ popular is artificial and often
  clumsy here.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:206 My 27 ‘17 380w

  “The literary cloak of pseudo-fairy lore is not gracefully worn, and
  there are incidents too disagreeable to make one care whether they are
  well or ill told.”

       — =Outlook= 116:304 Je 20 ‘17 30w

  “Nothing but romance, told with Irish charm, not to say humor, and the
  pull of an exciting yarn.” E. P. Wyckoff

       + =Pub= W 91:1315 Ap 21 ‘17 480w

  “There are times when his pen fairly dances across the page, filling
  the senses with the spirit of youth and spring and joyousness, and
  swaying the mood of the reader to match his own.”

       + =Sat R= 123:sup4 My 19 ‘17 250w

  “Would have made an excellent short story. ... But Mr Thurston gives
  us his story beribboned just as the mid-Victorian beribboned his
  screens and his picture-frames. It is padded out with unnecessary
  digressions about fairy stories and princes: and one very soon
  recognizes that these add nothing whatever to the effect and only
  provide Mr Thurston with an opportunity to display his pretty literary
  manner.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p155 Mr 29 ‘17 120w


=THURSTON, MABEL NELSON.= Sarah Ann. il *$1.25 (3c) Dodd 17-23979

  “Sarah Ann is a tenement child who has grown up in one of the most
  crowded sections of New York city, and who has succeeded quite
  thoroughly in evading education. ... The story pictures the efforts of
  this little tenement girl to keep house and care for Bobby and her
  baby sister. The crucial moment of existence comes when she first
  meets the ‘Lady Cop’ who takes an interest in the child and ...
  finally brings her to the point of wishing to go to school and of
  entrusting her adored baby sister to a day nursery.”—Boston Transcript

  “Pathos, humor, sentimentality.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:63 N ‘17

  “The charm of this little tale lies in its quaintness and its pathos.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 O 6 ‘17 250w

  “A bright little tale in which humor and pathos, smiles and tears
  mingle in almost every sentence. ... The pathetic little figure of the
  child herself is drawn with tenderness and knowledge and a sure
  touch.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:349 S 16 ‘17 280w

  “The best part of the book is the author’s common-sense treatment of
  the problem of the disposal of Sarah Ann. Contrary to time-honored
  literary tradition, she is not bodily transported to a higher social
  sphere, but is left in Cherry alley.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 23 ‘17 210w


=THWING, CHARLES FRANKLIN.= Education according to some modern masters.
*$2 Platt & Peck, 354 4th av., N.Y. 370 16-23107

  “The spiritual masters whose opinions upon education President Thwing
  has extracted and clearly interpreted in this book of his are Emerson,
  Carlyle, Ruskin, Mill, Gladstone, John Henry Newman, and Goethe. ...
  There are serious problems regarding the adjustment of education to
  modern life, upon which the thought of the older thinkers sheds little
  light. To reread the passages of their writings which President Thwing
  has reproduced makes one feel, however, that they had the root of the
  matter in them.”—No Am

         =A L A Bkl= 13:293 Ap ‘17

  Reviewed by W: H. Kilpatrick

       + =Educ R= 55:166 F ‘18 650w

  “The book will be appreciated for its continuity and systematic
  organization as well as for the excellent selection which has been
  made of the quoted material.”

       + =El School J= 18:156 O ‘17 420w

       + =Ind= 90:518 Je 16 ‘17 60w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:171 N ‘16

         =N Y Times= 22:514 D 2 ‘17 70w

  “The work is far more than a collection of pertinent quotations—though
  the quoted passages are numerous. In selecting the right passages from
  each writer, in connecting them in such a way as to show their
  relation to the whole thought of that writer upon education, and in
  independently summing up conclusions—a matter that requires critical
  judgment and real skill as a stylist—the author has performed a task
  as onerous and as profitable as that involved in producing an original
  treatise.”

       + =No Am= 205:471 Mr ‘17 600w

         =Pratt= p16 O ‘17 30w

  “The book aims to save education from what the author calls the peril
  of losing its human touch. It is his belief that such a discussion as
  he presents of the foregoing great humanists will do much to
  counteract the modern tendency of the overemphasis on technical means,
  methods, and conditions. The book can be spoken of as a humanistic
  source-book in modern education. For a reference book in a course in
  the history of modern education the chief value of the book will be
  found in the direct quotations and the author’s summary and concluding
  chapter.”

       + =School R= 25:613 O ‘17 140w


=THWING, CHARLES FRANKLIN.= Training of men for the world’s future.
*$1.25 Platt & Peck 378 16-23108

  “President Thwing of Western Reserve university develops his essay in
  three parts. Part 1 briefly depicts The destruction of the world,
  through the present war and lists the constructive forces by which
  men, after the war, can build the ‘Gentle-state’ out of the wastages
  of war. ... Part 2, The construction, the main body of the essay,
  outlines ways in which colleges and universities may affect,
  permanently and intimately, the family, the church, the government,
  business and literature, and hence aid in building the new world. ...
  The remaining twenty pages of this second part present six historical
  parallels in the development of religion and of education. ... Part 3,
  The university itself, opens with a three-page criticism of ‘the
  ecclesiastical and the academic priesthood,’ taken from F. S. Oliver’s
  ‘Ordeal by battle.’ ... In answer to this criticism, President Thwing
  states that the university seeks no unworthy influence but seeks to
  find and to teach the truth, which alone, incarnated, will reconstruct
  the world.”—Survey

  “Functions which President Thwing foresees for the university are the
  training of men to a broad idealism, to a social and sociological
  individuality and to richness of personality. But greater than any of
  these functions he considers the inculcation of knowledge of
  international relationships.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 24 ‘17 570w

  “Mainly a summarization, sincere and often well-phrased, but
  containing little that is new, of the ways in which an institution of
  higher learning may serve the world.” W. E. Clark

     + — =Survey= 38:360 Jl 21 ‘17 670w


=TIETJENS, MRS EUNICE.=[2] Profiles from China. $1 R. F. Seymour, 410 S.
Michigan av., Chicago 811 17-30910

  “Among prose poems which deserve to be cherished are Mrs Tietjens’
  ‘Profiles from China.’ The poems are distinguished first by their
  almost unfailing subjectivity. The writer nearly always interprets
  each sight in terms of her own reaction. We do not mean that it is
  autobiographical, but that Mrs Tietjens quickly establishes a close
  relation between herself and the reader. She sees dirty, crowded China
  with a quick eye, and puts it before us with its gods and beggars,
  walls, women and dandies, rickshas and camels.”—Dial

  “All is portrayed with humor, fear, sympathy, pathos, irony, and
  imagination.”

       + =Dial= 63:116 Ag 16 ‘17 400w

  “It is a book which is slight in bulk but in no other way. The author
  achieves a sort of bigness that is rare; she has gone to a country she
  did not understand, and she has come back bringing with her no
  pretense of omniscience but a still deeper, yet, somehow revealing
  bewilderment. It is good to know that among the many and
  various-voiced women poets to-day there is one who can write social
  criticism without ranting and who can feel pity without
  sentimentalizing. This blend of toughness and tenderness is revealed a
  dozen times in the volume.” L: Untermeyer

       + =Masses= 9:40 Ag ‘17 980w

  “There is a staccato jerky quality that is more redolent of prose than
  of poetry. Yet there is always a clarity of interpretation, and a
  significant acceptance and rejection of materials that are artistic
  and noteworthy. The book is a sincere interpretation of the static
  East in terms of the more dynamic West.” Clement Wood

     + — =N Y Call= p15 Ja 5 ‘18 200w


=TILDEN, FREEMAN.= Second wind; the plain truth about going back to the
land. *$1 (2½c) Huebsch 630 17-20658

  “This is the record of one heroic soul, by name Alexander Hadlock, who
  in 1906 at the age of sixty-two with no money and no previous
  experience in farm work, went back to the soil. He had his black
  years; four winters of working out on others’ farms; five years before
  he had his own few acres and his ‘shack.’ He gradually and doggedly
  saved and learned and succeeded.”—New Repub

  “A ‘back to the land’ story that is not concerned with friendly
  chickens or misunderstood pigs.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:47 N ‘17

  “The purpose of the book is to show that the conditions of success
  under such circumstances are indomitable will, hard physical work, and
  the application of scientific methods, and that the principal and
  sufficing reward is the consciousness of worthy work well done.”

       + =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 80w

  “Written by one who evidently knows something about farming and is
  under no illusions as to the amount of hard work and, above all,
  intelligent work that successful farming demands. But whether the
  writer’s ‘Alexander Hadlock,’ who got his second wind at sixty-two and
  exchanged the professor’s chair for the farmer’s hoe is a real person
  or purely imaginary, it would be hard to say. Perhaps he is a little
  of both.”

     + — =Dial= 63:167 Ag 30 ‘17 300w

  “There is something of heroism, something of good, hard, common sense,
  and a leavening of the strangely soothing love of animals and fields
  in ‘Second wind.’”

       + =Ind= 91:297 Ag 25 ‘17 80w

  “Mr Tilden is sympathetic towards the middle-aged city hunger for the
  soil, although he is merciless in knocking the romanticism from that
  vision.”

       + =New Repub= 12:198 S 15 ‘17 350w

  “This book will be a gospel of successful farming to many. It is not,
  however, to be used as a guide in the arts of agriculture. It is too
  short for that. It is what its secondary title implies, ‘The plain
  truth about going back to the land.’” G: H. Hamilton

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 12 ‘17 350w

  “It is an honest book, and it tells the whole story in terms of
  dollars and cents, measured rations, stone pulling, hard living,
  courageous persistence.” Marguerite Wilkinson

       + =Pub W= 92:812 S 15 ‘17 370w

  “Mr Tilden tells the story well, so well that his art would command
  applause were it not that the reader is breathlessly saving his
  applause for the subject rather than the author of the story.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 23 ‘17 680w

  “The gloomy picture is relieved by a pictorial literary style that
  makes the book readable. ... Hadlock’s philosophy is sound and
  inspiring.” Bolton Hall

       + =Survey= 38:533 S 15 ‘17 250w


=TILDEN, SIR WILLIAM AUGUSTUS.= Chemical discovery and invention in the
twentieth century. *$3.50 Dutton (*7s 6d Routledge and sons, London) 660
17-21524

  “With a large measure of success, the author has essayed the difficult
  task of compiling a detailed, but as far as possible nontechnical
  account of the discoveries and inventions in physical, organic,
  inorganic, and applied chemistry since about the beginning of the
  present century. Some of the newest and most completely equipped
  teaching and technological laboratories are described. Modern
  discoveries receive consideration; and many of the latter-day
  applications of chemical science are discussed with great fullness.
  The concluding portion of the book is devoted to recent progress in
  organic chemistry, some of the most striking results (such as the
  additions to our knowledge of the proteins and sugars, and the
  production of synthetic perfumes, colouring agents, and drugs) being
  recounted at considerable length. The volume is illustrated with 150
  figures, diagrams, and views; and there are portraits of eleven
  distinguished chemists and physicists, of whom biographical notices
  are supplied in the appendix.”—Ath

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:47 N ‘17

         =Ath= p197 Ap ‘17 140w

  “Sir William Tilden has filled his book with information so conveyed
  as to be clear to the non-technical reader.”

       + =Ath= p239 My ‘17 1000w

  “Sir William Augustus Tilden, formerly president of the Institute of
  chemistry and also of the Chemical society, professor and dean in the
  Royal college of science, and emeritus professor in the Imperial
  college of science and technology, author of several important works
  on the philosophy and practice of chemistry, has at the age of
  seventy-five, produced a book of five hundred pages dealing in a
  popular style on the marvelous advance which this most practical of
  sciences has made up to the present time.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 1400w

         =Ind= 92:260 N 3 ‘17 90w

  “We congratulate the author on the production of a work as useful as
  it is accurate and interesting. The book is admirably got up and
  excellently illustrated, and constitutes a worthy and timely addition
  to popular chemical literature.”

       + =Nature= 99:121 Ap 12 ‘17 1750w

  “A companion volume to Edward Cressy’s excellent work ‘Discoveries and
  inventions of the 20th century.’ Occasional formulae and molecular
  diagrams should not dissuade the general reader—the book is intended
  for him. A noteworthy book that should be in every public library.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p5 Ap ‘17 150w

  “The economic problems generated by the war lend particular interest
  to the third section of the book, which deals with the modern
  applications of specialized portions of chemical knowledge to
  manufacture.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:313 Ag 26 ‘17 500w

         =Pratt= p18 O ‘17 40w

  “Sir William Tilden gives a good summary of modern chemical theories
  of matter, which is stiff reading, and some lighter chapters on
  various branches of chemical industry such as petrol dyes, drugs,
  rubber, cellulose, and explosives, with a brief concluding section on
  sugar and other organic substances. These chapters are informing, and
  illustrate the ever-increasing importance of the chemist in modern
  life.”

         =Spec= 118:276 Mr 3 ‘17 100w


=TIPLADY, THOMAS.= Cross at the front; fragments from the trenches. *$1
(2½c) Revell 940.91

  The author has been serving as a field chaplain with the British
  forces. Many of the chapters that make up his book are descriptive
  sketches, others are discussions of ethical and moral questions and
  considerations of the soldier’s attitude toward the church, the
  influence of the church after the war, etc.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 24 ‘17 320w

  “The tone of the book is hopeful, patriotic, and sincere.”

       + =Outlook= 117:654 D 19 ‘17 80w

  “Through the entire book radiates wholesome feeling, love and trust
  and a manly and serviceable but not ecclesiastical faith.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 N 23 ‘17 350w


=TISDALE, ALICE.= Pioneering where the world is old (Leaves from a
Manchurian notebook). il *$1.50 (4c) Holt 915.18 17-26970

  Sketches of life and travel in Manchuria. The author, who has been her
  husband’s companion wherever his business has taken him thruout the
  East, knows the country with the intimacy of one who has made her home
  there. In one of her chapters, “We become pioneer settlers.” she
  writes of the difficulties met with in establishing a home in an
  ancient temple. The book has been written largely for the joy of
  recounting happy adventures, but it may be worthy of more serious
  attention as throwing some light on the Far Eastern question, with
  reference to the relations of Japan and China. Parts of the work have
  appeared in the Atlantic Monthly.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:126 Ja ‘18

  “The practically minded reader may find much in it, but the
  imaginative will get more.”

       + =Ind= 93:372 Mr 2 ‘18 230w

  “Her province is of the spirit, and her quest is as joyous as a
  child’s. The book was started ‘for the purpose of giving the breath of
  the open spaces to the stay-at-home vagabonds.’ This it does in a
  remarkable degree.”

       + =Nation= 106:20 Ja 3 ‘18 290w

         =Outlook= 117:576 D 5 ‘17 50w

         =R of Rs= 57:219 F ‘18 60w

  “An interesting volume.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 8 ‘17 90w


=TODD, JOHN AITON.= Mechanism of exchange. *$2.25 (4c) Oxford 332
17-16572

  The author is professor of economics in University college,
  Nottingham, England. He tells us in his preface to this “handbook of
  currency, banking and trade in peace and in war” that “the war has
  struck at the very roots of our whole business and financial system,
  by its devastating effects on our foreign trade, and therefore upon
  all the complicated financial machinery which has grown up round
  international trade, ... and that our internal monetary and financial
  system was involved in the breakdown of the foreign exchanges.” The
  natural result has been “a striking revival of interest in economic
  problems,” especially in questions of currency, banking and trade. The
  teaching of these subjects must therefore be brought up to date, which
  does not mean, according to our author, “an entire recasting of all
  previous teaching of economics,” but “a new presentation of the
  principles in conjunction with the altered conditions.” “Statistical
  information on the problems dealt with in the book has been collected
  in a series of appendices, with in every case the source of the
  information. These figures are at present necessarily very
  incomplete. ... At the end of each chapter references are given.”
  (Preface)

  “Professor Todd’s well-planned and ably written text-book on money,
  exchange, and banking deserves attention because he draws freely upon
  our experiences of finance in war time to illustrate or modify the
  theories prevailing in peace. His lucid account of the crisis at the
  outbreak of war is supplemented by many tables showing at a glance the
  financial history of these troubled years.”

       + =Spec= 119:40 Jl 14 ‘17 140w

  “Professor Todd states in his preface that, ‘as a result of the war,
  economics has come into its own.’ On the particular subject that he is
  discussing this is certainly true; but unfortunately his exposition of
  it is such that it leaves the reader with a quite contrary
  impression. ... Like many other workers in this field, he has
  entangled himself in his problem by introducing the comparatively
  unimportant question of the quantity of gold. ... Though he thus
  tumbles over a factor in his problem which he introduced to his own
  undoing, he provides his reader with a mass of statistics and
  information which may help others to draw a sounder conclusion.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p290 Je 21 ‘17 1050w


Told in the huts; the Y. M. C. A. gift book; with introd. by A. K. Yapp.
il *$1.50 Stokes 940.91 (Eng ed 17-1798)

  These stories and sketches of the war, together with a few poems, are
  contributed by British soldiers and war workers, and published for the
  benefit of the Y. M. C. A. active service campaign among soldiers,
  sailors and munition workers. A four page reproduction of one of the
  numerous trench magazines is included. The book is illustrated in
  black and white, and in color by Cyrus Cuneo.

  “The subjects of the stories vary widely. One element, however, they
  possess in common: a high valor and patriotism no suffering can daunt,
  no hardship can quench.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 18 ‘17 330w


=TOLSTOI, ILYA, count.= Visions; tales from the Russian. il *$1.35 (3½c)
Pond 17-15284

  A volume of short stories and sketches by Count Ilya Tolstoi, who has
  been lecturing in America during the past winter. Five of them, The
  little nurse, War visions, An affair of honor, The scarlet bashlyks,
  and The little green stick, are stories of the war. The remaining
  four, Too late, One scoundrel less, Without a nose, and Cholera, are
  stories of Russian life in the days before the war.

  “Count Ilya Tolstoi is a genuine poet; he has also his father’s gift
  for putting before the eyes whatever he wishes his readers to see.
  Read for instance the sketch entitled, ‘Without a nose’; it is
  horrible but it is marvellous; it might have been written by Count L.
  N. Tolstoi. Though the author is not a young man, there seems to be no
  reason why he should not yet accomplish great things in literature.
  These powerful stories and sketches have more than promise; they are
  little masterpieces.” N. H. D.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 12 ‘17 750w

       + =Dial= 62:527 Je 14 ‘17 330w

  “Several of the tales are strongly suggestive of de Maupassant.
  ‘Without a nose’ has all of his concise and bitter irony, as ‘The
  little nurse’ might represent him in his mood of, as it were,
  reluctant sympathy. Stories like ‘Too late’ and ‘One scoundrel less,’
  on the other hand, are full of generous emotion, the emotion of a
  Russian and a Tolstoy.”

         =Nation= 104:661 My 31 ‘17 420w

  “If ‘Visions’ has not genius, the book has a quiet and genuine
  interest.”

       + =New Repub= 11:141 Je 2 ‘17 350w

       + =N Y Times= 22:134 Ap 15 ‘17 650w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:650 O ‘17 30w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 200w


=TOLSTOI, LEO NIKOLAIEVICH, count.=[2] Diaries; v. 1, Youth; with a
preface by C. Hagberg Wright. il *$2 Dutton (18-2499)

  “Those readers who have familiarized themselves with only the later
  writings of Count Leo Tolstoy, must be prepared for a slight shock
  upon reading the intimate records of his earlier life in the
  ‘Diaries.’ The first volume of the series of three is now available in
  English translation, rendered from the Russian by C. J. Hogarth, and
  A. Sirnis. It covers the years from 1847 to 1852, and reveals the
  formative period of Tolstoy’s life. His jottings, like those of
  Emerson, deal with his thoughts rather than with his actions, and
  express cryptically many of the ideas which he afterward expanded into
  the philosophy of his mature years. The dualism of his nature is
  particularly manifest; flesh and spirit were ever at war.”—R of Rs

     + — =Ath= p598 N ‘17 400w

  “The ‘Diaries’ constitute a human document of great interest and
  importance, taking their place with the ‘Confessions’ of St Augustine
  and Rousseau in the light they shed on the soul-struggle of a wealthy
  and occasionally dissipated young nobleman who early caught the gleam
  and began to seek for the truth. The translation is admirably
  performed.” N. H. D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p 8 Ja 19 ‘18 1100w

       + =N Y Times= 22:461 N 11 ‘17 1250w

         =R of Rs= 57:221 F ‘18 240w

  “It is no exaggeration to say that many equally interesting diaries
  could be collected from sixteen-year-old high-school girls. As for the
  editing, we should be inclined to pass it over in silence if the
  remainder of the diary could be expected to be as valueless as this.”

       — =Sat R= 124:311 O 20 ‘17 460w

  “The comparison that suggests itself unjustly but automatically to the
  reader of the present volume is with the diary of Samuel Pepys. We
  have here the same open confessions of weaknesses, vanities, and sins;
  the same engaging discursiveness; and the same frankness and honesty
  which, whatever opinion we might hold about the moral worth of the
  older writer, left us with no doubts about the genuine humanity of his
  book. The diary has been translated into vigorous and racy English, it
  has been elaborately indexed and annotated.”

       + =Spec= 119:sup471 N 3 ‘17 760w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p289 Je 21 ‘17 4700w

  “The diaries now before us show that understanding was not wanting in
  the translator in a literal sense; his success is indeed greater than
  might have been expected in view of the rules by which he was bound to
  maintain the strictest accuracy—but possibly a keener sympathy with
  the ideas of the writer might produce a yet closer and more
  illuminating version of a ‘human document of exceptional interest and
  worth.’”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p470 O 4 ‘17 980w


=TOLSTOI, LEO NIKOLAIEVICH, count.= Journal; tr. by Rose Strunsky. *$2
(3c) Knopf (17-21353)

  “It was Tolstoy’s wish that his friend and follower, V. G. Chertkov,
  who was perhaps nearer to him spiritually than any one else, should
  revise and arrange for publication after his death all his manuscripts
  and documents, including his journals. But his widow, the Countess
  Tolstoy, took possession of his journals and notebooks and placed them
  in the Moscow historical museum. ... Therefore Mr Chertkov can publish
  only the volumes of which he happened to have copies from the
  original. He possesses of these copies the volumes that cover, in
  addition to this section from 1895 to 1899, the succeeding years from
  1900 to 1910 and will publish these later.” (N Y Times) The present
  volume of Tolstoi’s journal covers the period from October 28, 1895,
  to December, 1899. Omissions, made either by the censor, or on account
  of their intimate character, have been indicated. There is an
  introduction by Rose Strunsky. Appended are ninety pages of notes by
  V. G. Chertkov, and a short sketch of Tolstoi’s life in the nineties
  by Constantine Shokor-Trotsky, which includes a classified
  bibliography of Tolstoi’s writings from November, 1895 to 1899. There
  is a full index.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:24 O ‘17

         =Cleveland= p120 N ‘17 70w

  “A volume that will be valued by the lovers of fragmentary thought as
  they value the ‘Pensées’ of Pascal, the ‘Journal intime’ of Amiel and
  the ‘Encheiridion’ of Epictetus. ... The voluminous notes by Chertkov
  form a veritable cyclopedia of contemporary biography and literature
  for they explain every proper name mentioned.”

         =Ind= 92:67 O 6 ‘17 1000w

  “The processes of his mental debates are exposed, and the key to his
  philosophy and theology is put into the reader’s hand.”

       + =Lit D= 55:40 N 17 ‘17 280w

  “Here are recorded the incessant struggles of a mind bent on being
  absolutely honest with itself, longing to find the absolute moral
  basis for life. ... Miss Strunsky’s introduction sketches the
  influence of Tolstoy’s ideas upon the youth of Russia for the last
  generation.”

         =N Y Times= 22:288 Ag 5 ‘17 1600w

  “Abounds in expressions of sincere self-criticism. ‘Unclear’;
  ‘Nonsense’; ‘This seemed much clearer to me when I first thought it
  out’—comments such as these Tolstoi would not infrequently append to
  his entries, and all too often the stricture is just. Seldom does
  Tolstoi in this record lead us up to the heights of ethical vision;
  more often he conducts us through the dark chambers of his own mind.
  Yet in this very fact lies the value of the journal. Few of the
  sayings it contains are valuable as isolated truths, and the whole is
  scarcely more enlightening than discouraging to those who are in
  search of light and leading; yet the collection of Tolstoi’s
  day-to-day thoughts forms a vitally interesting document for the study
  of religious experience.”

     + — =No Am= 206:793 N ‘17 950w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:745 N ‘17 40w

         =R of Rs= 56:439 O ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:376 O ‘17 20w

  “It is the belief of Miss Rose Strunsky that a reading of the diary
  will make clear the meaning of the Russian revolution. ... In so far
  as the revolution had its mainsprings in the intelligentsia, and it
  did so largely, according to as competent an authority as Tolstoy’s
  son, Miss Strunsky’s statement cannot be gainsaid. ... The translation
  is finished and made with great faithfulness to lucid interpretation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 7 ‘17 540w


=TOMPKINS, ELLEN WILKINS.= Enlightenment of Paulina. *$1.50 (1½c) Dutton
17-28187

  The scene is laid partly in a town on the outskirts of Rochester,
  N.Y., and partly in the southern town of Middleborough. Paulina,
  daughter of a poor minister, after his death marries George Bull,
  whose secretary she has been, but who is personally distasteful to
  her, to secure a home and comfort for her mother. Mrs Sprague,
  however, does not live long to enjoy them. When later George Bull is
  imprisoned for theft, his wife, posing as a widow, goes to pay a long
  visit to her mother’s girlhood friend, Mrs Taliaferro, who has a
  charming daughter, Clyde. Paulina’s association with the kindly
  Middleborough people, most of all with the Rev. Mr Fellows who “in
  spite of his ministerial calling, was a creature of flesh and blood,”
  changes and develops her in many ways. The book also tells the story
  of Clyde Taliaferro’s love affairs, and of the devotion of Rosie, his
  brother’s widow, to George Bull.

  “A story of original flavour and of sincere and varied
  characterisation.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:691 F ‘18 500w

  “Beginning with a situation of unpleasant ‘realism,’ the reader is led
  by way of an atmosphere of southern village comedy and romance to a
  conclusion charactered with self-sacrifice and spiritual
  generosity. ... Aside from the main theme, the development of a
  woman’s character, the story has much individuality; its picture of
  the Middleborough elect is less concerned with their typical southern
  quaintnesses than with their essential quality.”

     + — =Nation= 106:44 Ja 10 ‘18 440w

  “One of those books which one reads with a feeling of regret—regret
  for what they might have been. For there is some good work in ‘The
  enlightenment of Paulina,’ but it is rendered almost null and futile
  by the author’s apparent lack of any sense of light and shade, any
  sense of what to eliminate.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:475 N 18 ‘17 320w


=TOMPKINS, JULIET WILBOR (MRS JULIET WILBOR TOMPKINS POTTLE).=[2] At the
sign of the oldest house. il *$1.50 (4½c) Bobbs 17-30279

  A wholesome, old fashioned story with a restraint in the love making
  little known to modern romance. The setting is “the oldest house in
  America,” where are gathered for the browsing appetite of tourists,
  curios, paintings and valuable antiques. The keeper of the place is a
  little, bent, old shell of a woman, to whom the personal conduct of
  groups among her treasures and the droning recital of their ownerships
  and famous points have become a dun-colored habit. In sharp contrast
  to her is the grandchild, Pansy, who comes unbidden and self
  announced, to touch every treasure with the gold of youth. Exuberant
  spirits, a keen joy of living, tireless love of hard work become
  valuable assets in this dead-and-buried atmosphere. The hero is half
  artist, half business man, who also deals in antiques and has built up
  a good business in reproducing old pieces. Some one has said the story
  is “as fragrant as a honeysuckle, as homelike as a gingham apron.”

  “‘A pretty story,’ very slight.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:171 F ‘18

  “Not only does the book please while reading but it leaves a satisfied
  feeling after.”

       + =Ind= 92:604 D 29 ‘17 30w

  “Mrs Tompkins has not made a contribution to literature; her
  characters do not grip your heart; nor do they help you to a better
  understanding of life—but the simple little story is full of charm and
  wholesomeness.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:517 D 2 ‘17 290w

  “A bread-and-butter romance, which leaves the reader cold. Throughout
  the book there is an atmosphere of unreality which the thoughtful
  reader, in these times of stern realities, resents. However, there is
  much that is charming.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 23 ‘17 140w


=TORRENCE, RIDGELY.= Granny Maumee; The rider of dreams; Simon the
Cyrenian. *$1.50 Macmillan 812 17-24093

  These three “plays for a negro theatre” were presented in New York
  city in the season of 1916-17. “‘Granny Maumee’ is a tragedy of race
  hate, witchcraft and family affection of such terrible intensity that
  few readers will be able to take pleasure in it. ‘The rider of dreams’
  is in a softer key and somehow suggests the mingled realism and
  mysticism of the modern Irish drama. ‘Simon the Cyrenian’ is an
  allegory of the African race placed in a biblical setting.” (Ind)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:122 Ja ‘18

         =Cleveland= p122 N ‘17 140w

  “The three plays are strangely reminiscent of the Irish plays. They
  have all the faults of the latter,—they are perhaps even a shade more
  loose and amateurish,—but they have about them the gracious honesty of
  a primitive people, a refreshing contrast to sophistication’s
  steelier, more intellectual truth. The negro theatre is a folk theatre
  and its plays are folk plays. They are chronicles of a simple,
  child-like people, full of naïve superstitious religion and rude
  poetry—and still within sound of the savage tom-tom. ... Mr Torrence
  does not plead for the black man and he does not apologize for him. He
  simply presents him, one feels truly, as he is.”

   + + — =Dial= 63:529 N 22 ‘17 840w

       + =Ind= 92:63 O 6 ‘17 100w

  “The two first of these one-act plays begin excellently. Then, to get
  the theatrical ‘punch,’ the first shrills off into melodrama with
  voodoo trimmings, and the second flats out into the distribution of
  rewards and punishments. The third is a nowise successful attempt to
  realize that ‘atmosphere’ that surrounded the crucifixion of the
  Christ. If the form of the opening lines of ‘Granny Maumee’ had been
  held, Mr Torrence would have given us a really worthy, almost great
  study of negro character.” F. M.

     + — =NY Call= p14 N 18 ‘17 360w

  “The first dramatic valuation of the negro which in theme, character
  and situation approaches the actual psychology of negro life. ... The
  plays have the haunting wistfulness of primitive racial
  characteristics emerging in a foreign civilization and their
  philosophy is distinctly that of the negro.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:444 O ‘17 100w


=TOWERS, WALTER KELLOGG.= Masters of space. (Harper’s master inventors)
il *$1.25 (2c) Harper 654 17-7207

  This book tells “the story of how the thought of the world has been
  linked together by those modern wonders of science and of industry—the
  telegraph, the submarine cable, the telephone, the wireless telegraph,
  and most recently, the wireless telephone.” The book opens with an
  account of early methods of communicating thru space by means of
  signals. Chapters that follow take up: Forerunners of the telegraph;
  The achievement of Morse: Development of the telegraph system; The
  pioneer Atlantic cable; The birth of the telephone, etc.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:386 Je ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Mr 21 ‘17 200w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17

  “Untechnical, simply written story.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p10 Ap ‘17 130w

  “Good book for readers of high school age.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 40w

  “History teachers will find valuable reference material in this
  volume. It will do good service in the upper elementary grades as well
  as in the high school. The paucity of such material has been a great
  handicap to history teachers in the past, for which reason this book
  will doubtless receive a hearty welcome.”

       + =School R= 25:612 O ‘17 280w

  “A volume of 30 pages of much interest and considerable value,
  especially for the idea of grouping these kindred tales of
  long-distance message-sending.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 300w


=TOWNE, CHARLES HANSON.= Autumn loiterers. il *$1.25 (9½c) Doran 917.4
17-29815

  “You will hardly believe that we were loiterers when I tell you that
  we were motorists,” writes the author. A leisurely journey thru the
  Berkshire hills, taken in company with a companionable friend and a
  six-year old motorcar, known as “Old Reliable,” is the subject of the
  sketches. They are reprinted from the Delineator, with illustrations
  by Thomas Fogarty. Mr Towne is a poet and an occasional bit of verse
  is slipped into the prose narrative.

  “There is magic in it. The title sounds the right note, interpreting
  the mood of the pages that follow.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:466 N 11 ‘17 800w

  “A choice little volume. Happily illustrated. The man who drove the
  car was Porter Emerson Browne, playwright and novelist.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 280w


=TOYNBEE, ARNOLD JOSEPH.= German terror in Belgium; an historical
record. il $1 (3½c) Doran 940.91 17-14685

  “The subject of this book is the treatment of the civil population in
  the countries overrun by the German armies during the first three
  months of the European war. The form of it is a connected narrative,
  based on the published documents and reproducing them by direct
  quotation or (for the sake of brevity) by reference. With the
  documents now published on both sides it is at last possible to
  present a clear narrative of what actually happened. ... The narrative
  has been arranged so as to follow separately the tracks of the
  different German armies or groups of armies which traversed different
  sectors of French and Belgian territory.” (Preface) There are three
  maps and numerous illustrations.

  “It is noteworthy that, as the author remarks, the different
  testimonies fit together into a presentation of fact which is not open
  to disbelief.”

       + =Ath= p368 Jl ‘17 120w

  “A dispassionate continuous narrative.”

       + =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 30w

  “No ‘fact’ is reported without abundant reference and
  counter-reference. The sources include among others the Bryce report,
  the appendices to the German White book, the reports of the Belgian
  and French commissions, Massart’s ‘Belgians under the German eagle,’
  Paul Hocker’s ‘An der spitze meiner kompagnie,’ etc. Mr Toynbee
  assesses the conflicting evidence with notable fairness, so that the
  record is free of any of the hysteria of the ‘eyewitness’ stamp of
  excited journalist.”

       + =New Repub= 13:sup16 N 17 ‘17 130w

  “The impression is inescapable that the relation is in the main true.
  The damning indictment is strengthened by official German admissions
  of slaughter and destruction in many of the places through which they
  passed. And there can be no dismissing this sort of evidence as
  forgery.” J. W.

       + =N Y Call= p14 N 4 ‘17 420w

  “Its material has all been co-ordinated from published documents and,
  therefore, its evidence cannot be frowned down or minimized in any
  way.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:215 Je 3 ‘17 130w

         =R of Rs= 56:214 Ag ‘17 50w

  “It is of real value that the enormous mass of material to be found in
  the Belgian reports, and also, of course, in the Bryce commission,
  should have been worked up by a skilled and scholarly writer into the
  form of a short and simple narrative. ... There is much talk now about
  war aims and peace conditions. For this country the primary war aim
  is, and must continue to be, not merely the expulsion of the Germans
  from Belgium, but the establishment of an authoritative court to
  inquire into the events which Mr Toynbee records.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p279 Je 14 ‘17 370w


=TRAIN, ARTHUR (CHENEY).=[2] World and Thomas Kelly. *$1.50 Scribner
17-29866

  “Thomas Kelly is a young Bostonian, a son of ancient Massachusetts
  stock. But though one of his forebears has been a governor, and he
  himself is born in Back Bay, he grows up to find himself just without
  the pale of the socially elect. He grows up a snob, in the odor of
  snobbery. Three years of his life at Harvard are embittered by his
  quite natural exclusion from the fashionable and expensive clubs of
  that city of boys. In his fourth year, a fluke of athletic success
  brings him to the front, and proves him worthy of membership in one of
  these golden groups. But it all goes to Tom Kelly’s head, he takes to
  cards and drink, and barely pulls himself together sufficiently to
  save his diploma. His prowess at tennis gains him a summer in the
  millionaire household of one of his clubmates at Newport. He is
  supposed to be there for training before the national tournament; but
  when the test comes is quite too far out of condition to make more
  than a tolerable showing. But there are consolations: heiresses are
  abundant, ready to award themselves to his youth and good looks. How,
  after all, he escapes making a whole hopeless mess of his life, and
  sets his foot at least upon the first rung of the ladder of an
  honorable and useful career, is the substance of the latter part of
  the story.”—Nation

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:134 Ja ‘18

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 46:602 Ja ‘18 550w

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 2 ‘18 540w

  “Readers who were familiar with the Boston of thirty years ago may
  find here an extraordinarily faithful and, with all its humor,
  sympathetic record of that place and time and atmosphere.”

     + — =Nation= 106:44 Ja 10 ‘18 480w

  “Mr Train, it would seem, intended his hero to have a good deal of
  charm, but for some reason has omitted to endow him with an atom of
  that most desirable quality. The first part of the novel is by all
  odds the best. The interest of the story—like its merit—steadily
  declines, until it reaches the vanishing point; which place it attains
  many pages in advance of the last chapter.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:475 N 18 ‘17 420w

  “It is the strength of Mr Train’s story that he has portrayed the hero
  without sparing him, but it may be questioned whether the character is
  worth while.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p13 F 10 ‘18 420w


=TRAIN, ETHEL (KISSAM) (MRS ARTHUR [CHENEY] TRAIN).= Bringing out
Barbara. *$1.25 (2½c) Scribner 17-10198

  Seventeen, just thru preparatory school that probably had a finishing
  touch to it—the author does not say—Barbara West arrives home to enter
  upon all the bewildering preparations for her “coming out.” She is a
  natural, democratic girl, with simple tastes. After her four years of
  school girl life she finds the atmosphere of formal teas and dinners
  too stifling and the shallowness of social climbers too artificial for
  her inclinations that run to flowers, birds, sunshine and people who
  can tell the truth. How she manages to live thru her coming-out season
  and yet emerge unspoiled is a story that may be read with profit by
  all debutantes, and some mothers of debutantes as well.

  “Exaggerated and rather hectic but written with considerable spirit.”

     – + =Cleveland= p89 Jl ‘17 70w

     + — =Ind= 91:35 Jl 7 ‘17 40w

         =N Y Times= 22:131 Ap 8 ‘17 200w

  “The coldness and heartlessness of the family life of fashion and
  fortune worshipers is well brought out in this novelette.”

       + =Outlook= 115:758 Ap 25 ‘17 20w

  “A pretty little romance, written with pleasant sentiment.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 My 6 ‘17 250w


=TREAT, PAYSON JACKSON.=[2] Early diplomatic relations between the
United States and Japan; 1853-1865. $2.50 Johns Hopkins press 327.73
17-28858

  The Albert Shaw lectures on diplomatic history for 1917. The writer,
  professor of Far eastern history in Stanford university, offers the
  lectures as the first part of a study which will cover the whole
  period of Japanese-American diplomatic relations. The present volume
  takes up the story of American intercourse, and continues it thru the
  negotiation of the Perry and Harris treaties, thru the troublesome
  period of anti-foreign movements, to the Mikado’s sanction of the
  treaties in 1865 where the narrative ends.


=TREE, SIR HERBERT BEERBOHM.= Nothing matters, and other stories. *$1.60
Houghton 17-13222

  “To his achievements as actor and manager Sir Herbert Tree adds, for
  the third time, that of authorship. ... Ten short stories, of which
  the first fills nearly a third of the space, comprise the collection.
  There is added also the presidential address delivered by Sir Herbert
  before the Birmingham Midland institute in 1915 on ‘The importance of
  humor in tragedy.’ The book takes its title from the novelette that
  holds the initial place and tells the tragic tale of two friends and a
  woman. Some of the other stories are farcical, with a touch of the
  tragic in theme or dénouement. Ironic laughter runs through them
  all.”—N Y Times

       + =Ath= p103 F ‘17 50w

  “While we are interested in the stories of this collection, for the
  majority the greatest attraction will lie in the essay with which the
  volume ends, ‘The importance of humor in tragedy.’” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 11 ‘17 650w

       + =Lit D= 55:48 D 29 ‘17 200w

     + — =Nation= 105:19 Jl 5 ‘17 280w

       + =N Y Times= 22:114 Ap 1 ‘17 240w

       + =Outlook= 115:758 Ap 25 ‘17 30w

  “He has a gift for epigram, a wayward sardonic humour, and a strong
  sense of the macabre. Even where they are derivative his phrases are
  ingenious, as when he defines the genius of the courtier as ‘an
  infinite faculty of not being bored,’ or remarks that the Austrian
  officer ‘waltzes as the nightingale sings, because he has nothing else
  to do,’ or deprecates the habit observable in some people, ‘who are
  too apt to treat God as if He were a minor royalty.’”

       + =Spec= 118:140 F 3 ‘17 850w

  “Perhaps only two of these tales appear as they would have appeared
  had Sir Herbert Tree been a professional and laborious writer instead
  of a brilliant and gracious amateur. But if the form of the stories
  speaks of the parergon, there is entertainment and to spare in them.
  Not the least part of it, by any means, is the constant bubble of
  smart phrases.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p18 Ja 11 ‘17 850w


=TREITSCHKE, HEINRICH GOTTHARD VON.= History of Germany in the
nineteenth century; tr. by Eden and Cedar Paul. 7v v 2 *$3.25 (1c)
McBride 943 (16-759)

  =v 2= Volume 1 of the English translation of Treitschke’s history was
  published in 1915. It dealt with the period from the Peace of
  Westphalia to the close of the War of liberation. Volume 2 is devoted
  wholly to The beginnings of the German federation, 1814-1819, with
  chapters on: The congress of Vienna; Belle Alliance (Waterloo); Mental
  currents of the first years of peace; Opening of the German Bundestag;
  Reconstruction of the Prussian state; South German constitutional
  struggles. As in volume 1, there is an introduction by William Harbutt
  Dawson.

  Reviewed by M. S. Handman

 *       =Dial= 63:152 Ag 30 ‘17 1600w

  “If it lacks the complete ecstasy of the author’s narrative of the War
  of liberation, it compensates in a measure by the tempered pride with
  which he discusses the spiritual achievements of Germany during the
  first years of peace. The translation by Eden and Cedar Paul continues
  to show the defects and qualities of the first volume—competence
  without elegance.”

     + — =Nation= 105:518 N 8 ‘17 260w

  “It is important to remember that the ill fame Treitschke has acquired
  comes less from the ‘History’ than from the ‘Politics’; though the
  ignorant narrowness of the latter deserves whatever condemnation it
  may obtain. The ‘History’ is on a different plane. It is brilliant, it
  is eloquent, and even if it is not seldom inaccurate, it represents
  great erudition. That from which it seems to have inspired distrust is
  the fact that it was written to prove a theory. ... The ‘History’ is a
  household word in Germany, as Macaulay in England or Taine in France.
  And it is that deservedly. With all its faults, it is a fundamental
  book.” H. J. L.

         =New Repub= 11:115 My 26 ‘17 1600w

  “It is not true, but it is convincing. ... It is, in brief, the epic
  of Prussian absolutism. ... Yet it should none the less be read; for
  it has played and is playing a great part in the world’s affairs. And
  if it is not itself sound history it has at least done more than most
  books of its species to make history. Only, one should read Carl
  Schurz’s ‘Autobiography’ as well.” W. C. Abbott

         =Yale R= n s 6:891 Jl ‘17 400w


=TREMLETT, MRS HORACE.= Giddy Mrs Goodyer. *$1.25 (1½c) Lane 17-11794

  Over in Europe the war is raging, but the echoes of it that reach
  South Africa in this story are very faint. Little Mrs Goodyer comes
  down to the coast to visit friends. Once more accustomed to an easy
  way of life, she feels that she can never go back to the rough mining
  town in which her husband has kept her immured, and she decides to
  divorce him. Her friends refuse to have anything to do with the
  matter, a reputable lawyer tells her she has no case, but she persists
  and finds a lawyer who promises her the divorce, case or no case. She
  has got herself into a pretty tangle by the time the husband comes
  looking for her. To escape him and her troubles she sails for England.
  The husband engages passage on the same boat and a reconciliation is
  easily affected.

  “The novel is amusing and smartly written, with a touch of cynicism,
  like a dash of paprika, to give it flavor. There is a good deal of
  clever character drawing.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:138 Ap 15 ‘17 300w

         =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 400w


=TROWARD, THOMAS.= Law and the word. *$1.50 (3½c) McBride 131 17-16437

  The author, who died in 1916, was one of the leading exponents of New
  thought. This book is made up of a collection of his essays and is
  prefaced by an appreciative foreword by Paul Derrick. Contents: Some
  facts in nature; Some psychic experiences; Man’s place in the creative
  order; The law of wholeness; The soul of the subject; The promises;
  Death and immortality; Transferring the burden.

         =Ath= p520 O ‘17 80w

         =Outlook= 117:101 S 19 ‘17 110w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:699 O ‘17 30w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p431 S 6 ‘17 220w


=TRYON, ROLLA MILTON.= Household manufactures in the United States,
1640-1860; a study in industrial history. *$2 Univ. of Chicago press 609
17-13932

  “The book has been written by a historian and connects, throughout,
  the subject of household manufactures with the general economic and
  political history of the nation. ... The general plan of treatment
  involves a combination of the chronological and topical methods: For
  the colonial period ... the field has been covered with a very
  definite aim in view; the first, to determine and elucidate the
  various factors affecting household manufactures; the second, to
  connect these factors with real situations; the third, to consider the
  multifarious products of the family factory; and the fourth, to find
  evidences of the transfer from family to shop- and factory-made goods.
  The period from 1783 to 1810 has been treated chronologically with a
  view to showing influencing factors and amounts made, and topically
  for the purposes mentioned in three and four above. After 1810 the
  discussion has largely to do with the transition from home- to
  factory-made goods, and adapts itself admirably to a straightforward
  chronological treatment.” (El School J) This book has nineteen
  statistical tables and a bibliography of twenty pages. The author is
  assistant professor of the teaching of history in the University of
  Chicago.

  “The book contains eight chapters of very unequal merit. ... It will
  be of value to the economic historian as a convenient and serviceable
  storehouse of data bearing on household manufacture. No other single
  volume known to the reviewer contains so much source material on the
  subject for the country as a whole. Unfortunately it is not well
  organized; it lacks proportion and emphasis, and is conspicuously weak
  in interpretation.” H. A. Wooster

 *   + – =Am Econ R= 7:848 D ‘17 1000w

  “The technique of the book is admirable; the classified bibliography
  is the most complete yet published on the subject; a good index
  increases the value of the book for reference purposes. But the writer
  of economic history must do more than this. Only by the constant
  application of the principles of economic science can he give an
  adequate, well-reasoned explanation of a past industrial system, the
  causes of its origin and of its peculiar characteristics, and the
  reasons for its eventual decay and disappearance.” P. W. Bidwell

     + — =Am Hist R= 23:177 O ‘17 800w

  “Carefully worked out, it connects the subject with the general
  economics and history work, and is useful as a reference book for
  history and household art and science teachers in high schools, normal
  schools and colleges. Good index.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:82 D ‘17

  “Throughout the text are minutely worked out tables showing the growth
  or decline of these industries not only in the different states but in
  the counties which had the most influence on their status.”

       + =Cleveland= p123 N ‘17 60w

  “The present demand for material in the history courses will be
  partially satisfied by Mr Tryon’s book. To teachers of household arts,
  especially of textiles, it should make a very definite and detailed
  contribution in the account which it supplies of one phase of their
  work as it was done in the home prior to the time of its taking over
  by the school.”

       + =El School J= 17:769 Je ‘17 670w

  “Many tables give valuable statistical data.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:690 O ‘17 50w

         =R of Rs= 56:215 Ag ‘17 130w

  “Intended for the use of students, but of no little interest to the
  general reader, who will find here many homely facts about the life of
  his ancestors.” P. B.

       + =St Louis= 15:388 N ‘17 30w

  “The author has indicated clearly the relation of household
  manufactures to the social, political, and general industrial life of
  the people. He has used extensively the census returns, reports of the
  treasury department, and the records of many state and local
  historical societies in the choice and selection of his material. The
  variety of topics that Professor Tryon discusses being considered, it
  seems extraordinary that he has been able to confine his treatment to
  one volume. This he has done because of the method of his treatment,
  which has been both topical and chronological. The book answers a
  long-felt need in the field of industrial history and merits the
  thoughtful consideration of all school authorities and teachers of
  history.” R. E. Jordan

       + =School R= 25:526 S ‘17 350w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 F 3 ‘18 300w

  “A very interesting study.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p394 Ag 16 ‘17 250w


=TUCKER, WILLIAM JEWETT.=[2] New reservation of time, and other
articles. *$1.50 (3½c) Houghton 304 16-23788

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:303 Ap ‘17

  “The impression a young man will get from this book is that to be
  institutionally responsible is to be intellectually suppressed and
  benumbed. Dr Tucker does not say this, but he gives the effect of a
  mind that has been a long time in prison, the implications of his
  philosophy are so radical and yet his thoughts move so stiffly in
  their harness. Here is a mind that has a driving radical force about
  it in any direction where it works openly and freely. Once discount
  the prison chill and you find Dr Tucker anything but a class-bound
  conservative. His pages, if brooded over by the ruling class with
  which one should have to identify him, would revolutionize our social
  order.” R. B.

       + =New Repub= 12:111 Ag 25 ‘17 840w

  “Dr Tucker exhibits the same restraint in the discussion of old-age
  compensation that he shows in the essays upon ‘Undergraduate
  scholarship’ and the war. In every case the reader will get a sense of
  the ‘intellectual austerity,’ as Dr Crothers once phrased it, of a
  thoughtful man with newly acquired time for thought. With America
  actively engaged in the war we can find an added interest in the essay
  on the ‘Ethical challenge of the war.’ Dr Tucker considers the war a
  contest between liberalism and reaction in which the United States is
  to play the part of keeping the issue always defined.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 19 ‘17 540w


=TUFTS, JAMES HAYDEN.=[2] Our democracy; its origins and its tasks.
*$1.50 (1½c) Holt 321 17-27649

  A book for the citizen and the prospective citizen who may want to
  know better what his country stands for. The writer devotes himself
  less to the machinery of our government than to the principles and
  ideas which the machinery is meant to serve. The book is divided into
  two parts: The beginnings of coöperation, order, and liberty, and
  Liberty, union, democracy in the new world.

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:159 F ‘18 130w

  “Excellent book ... in simple entertaining style.”

       + =Cleveland= p8 Ja ‘18 60w


=TURNER, ALFRED.= On falling in love, and other matters. il *$1.50
Dutton 824

  “‘On falling in love and other matters’ contains twenty-seven little
  gossips in, one is tempted to say, Mr Francis Gribble’s boudoir—in
  other words, a quantity of very small talk about the amours of Byron,
  Burns, Keats, Shelley, etc., together with bits of innocent chit-chat
  on sundry literary topics. The frontispiece exhibits Lady Caroline
  Lamb in her page’s costume.”—Nation

  “Although so much of the book is filled with well known facts and with
  old ideas, he infuses into it a tone of delicate sophistication, and
  quiet observation, which makes his essays pleasant if not inspiring
  reading.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 16 ‘17 270w

  “The love affairs of poets have a special interest for Mr Alfred
  Turner, ... while he also contributes a number of short and scholarly
  essays on a wider variety of themes, well calculated to hold the
  attention of any fairly well-read person. Such chapters as ‘A plea for
  the minor poet,’ ‘The poetry of new lands,’ and ‘The importance of the
  right word’ illustrate Mr Turner’s fondness for thought and expression
  that lie off the main highways of literature.”

     + — =Dial= 63:535 N 22 ‘17 240w

  “It is a good book for a somnolent lady resting her nerves in a
  hammock, with a box of bon-bons underneath the bough.”

         =Nation= 104:763 Je 28 ‘17 80w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:86 Je ‘17 130w

  “The author is editor of the London Evening Times. The first half of
  the book follows ... the love affairs of poets. But Mr. Turner handles
  his subject delicately and interestingly, and no one can complain that
  the author has been in search of scandal. His faculty for pleasant
  research and his knowledge of literature are better displayed in the
  subsequent chapters, in which, while his subjects are seemingly chosen
  at random, he writes unaffectedly and in a hearty manner that help to
  disabuse the newspaper reading public of the idea that there is
  something formidable and forbidding in the best authors.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 Je 21 ‘17 270w


=TURNER, CHARLES CYRIL.= Aircraft of today; a popular account of the
conquest of the air. il *$1.50 Lippincott 629.1 17-2690

  “Beginning with a résumé of ancient allusions to flying, and some of
  the earlier experiments and projects, the author follows with chapters
  on the balloon; the first airships and aeroplanes; the aerial ocean,
  and navigation of the air; the principles of mechanical flight; the
  sensations experienced during ballooning and flying; learning to fly;
  the first years of flying; modern airship theory; the first use of
  aircraft in war; the developments of aerial fighting during the
  present war; and flying developments to come.”—Ath

  “A popular, complete, well illustrated account of aircraft.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:386 Je ‘17

  “A welcome and useful book.”

       + =Ath= p540 N ‘16 140w

  “The author has been very successful in an attempt to concentrate the
  maximum amount of information in the minimum amount of space. Every
  page is full of facts, yet the book is quite readable and interesting.
  Much of the subject-matter will probably be new even to the great
  majority of experts.”

       + =Nature= 99:145 Ap 19 ‘17 900w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:190 D ‘16

         =Pittsburgh= 22:318 Ap ‘17

  “An appendix contains aviation world records, vocabulary of
  aeronautical terms, French technical terms, tables, and a
  bibliography. Author is a lieutenant in British service, and has
  written other books on aeronautics.”

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= O ‘17 90w


=TURPIN, EDNA HENRY LEE.= Peggy of Roundabout lane. il *$1.25 (2c)
Macmillan 17-24817

  Some of the characters from the author’s two earlier stories for
  girls, “Honey Sweet” and “Happy Acres,” reappear in this new book. The
  heroine is Peggy Callahan, who is called on to assume the duties of
  housekeeper while her mother goes to the hospital. Peggy doesn’t like
  housework and she had set her heart on winning a scholarship in
  school. Thru all her trials she has the sympathy and encouragement of
  her friend Anne Lewis. Peggy fails to gain the scholarship—but wins
  something better.

  “An unusually wholesome and pleasant story. Close akin to the Alcott
  books.”

       + =Ind= 92:447 D 1 ‘17 60w

       + =N Y Times= 22:441 O 28 ‘17 150w

         =Outlook= 117:475 N 21 ‘17 20w


=TURQUET-MILNES, G.= Some modern Belgian writers. *$1 McBride 839.3 (Eng
ed 18-26090)

  “Beginning with a discussion of ‘The renascence of Belgian letters’
  the writer proceeds to a series of outlines of the work of
  Maeterlinck, Verhaeren, Rodenbach, Lemonnier, Eekhoud, Max Elskamp,
  Charles van Lerberghe, the Destrée brothers and Courouble, the whole
  being preceded with a brief prefatory note by Edmund Gosse.”—Boston
  Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:159 F ‘18

  “Mr Turquet-Milnes relates the circumstances of the founding of La
  Jeune Belgique by Max Waller, and the gathering about him of a group
  of bold and original Belgian young men who brought new life to the
  literature of their country. ... Excellent survey of Belgian
  literature.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ag 15 ‘17 720w

         =Cleveland= p119 N ‘17 50w

  “Its chief virtue lies not so much in the consideration bestowed upon
  individual talent as in the synthetic treatment of the movement as a
  whole. Taken all together, this book is one of the most conscientious
  and sympathetic critical surveys I have read on any literature.
  Furthermore, the author writes in a style that is virile and positive,
  and has a command of his subject that is a joy in these days when
  every schoolteacher sets up shop as critic. He sees his men in
  relation to their environment, to the earth from which they sprang,
  and having both vision and scholarship, he is able to measure them
  with an eye that is unusually clear.” L: Galantiere

       + =Dial= 63:388 O 25 ‘17 1800w

  “Instructive and intelligent little book for those who seek
  information on the subject.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p627 D 21 ‘16 40w


=TUTTLE, MRS FLORENCE GUERTIN.= Give my love to Maria. *$1 Abingdon
press 17-12390

  “Twelve short stories make up the pages of ‘Give my love to Maria.’
  Several of these short stories won prizes offered by magazines
  [several years ago.]” (Springf’d Republican) “Contents: The story of
  the stories; Give my love to Maria; The French doll’s dowry; Idols of
  gold; As shown by the tape; Cupid at forty; A wingless victory; A
  successful failure; What doth it profit a man? Mademoiselle; Gentlemen
  unafraid; ‘Unto them a child.’” (N Y Br Lib News)

  “Cleverness and insight they undoubtedly possess.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 4 ‘17 340w

  “Pleasing tales.”

       + =Dial= 62:443 My 17 ‘17 170w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:131 S ‘17 40w

  “‘Give my love to Maria’ contains stories with excellent plots, but
  there is a crudeness in their execution.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:126 Ap 8 ‘17 280w

  “The stories show originality and clearness, and some understanding of
  the human problem.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 16 ‘17 70w


=TWOMBLY, FRANCIS DOANE, and DANA, JOHN COTTON=, comps. Romance of
labor. il *55c (1c) Macmillan 16-23236

  The compilers have selected “scenes from good novels depicting joy in
  work.” They say in their preface: “Young people are to-day more
  earnestly than ever before seeking for light to guide them to the
  places in the workshops of the world for which they are best fitted.
  Surely some of that light can be found in descriptions of those
  workshops written by writers of insight and imagination, like our
  novelists. Hence this book.” Among the selections are: The diver, from
  “Caleb West,” by F. Hopkinson Smith; Reclaiming the desert, from “The
  winning of Barbara Worth,” by Harold Bell Wright; Pottery, from
  “Brunel’s Tower,” by Eden Phillpotts; Cigar making, from “V. V’s
  eyes,” by Henry S. Harrison; The stock-yards, from “The jungle,” by
  Upton Sinclair; The cattle drive, from “Arizona nights,” by Stewart
  Edward White.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:360 My ‘17

       + =Ind= 91:35 Jl 7 ‘17 50w

  “An ingenious selection and arrangement of scenes from novels which
  picture the real work of the world in various industries.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:442 O ‘17 20w

         =School R= 25:143 F ‘17 50w




                                   U


=UNDERHILL, EVELYN (MRS STUART MOORE).= Theophanies; a book of verse.
*$1.50 Dutton 821 17-5732

  “Mystic and philosopher, both characters definitely clothe themselves
  in Miss Underhill’s verse. She has written most often upon mysticism,
  but the mysticism which reveals itself in her verse is not of the
  character which contents itself with symbols or the undefined, but
  always into the midst of her visions breaks the mood of questioning,
  and she falls to analyzing. ... Even melting into each other as they
  do the moods are distinctly separate in origin and remain through her
  poems quite distinguishable.”—Boston Transcript

       + =Ath= p479 O ‘16 50w

  “Though there are passages of very pure poetry here, it is her thought
  rather than her manner of expressing it which remains with us.” D. L.
  M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 7 ‘17 950w

  “The poems on spiritual themes are not convincing, but ‘Any
  Englishwoman,’ altho it is a slight thing for so great a tragedy to
  inspire, seems to be as sincere as it is imaginative and well
  phrased.”

         =Lit D= 54:714 Mr 17 ‘17 260w

  “The austere note of distinction, restraint, and painstaking selection
  is its chief characteristic. ... That these poems will not appeal to
  the multitude is inevitable. They breathe and have their being in too
  fine an atmosphere for that. ... Despite popular criticism, in the
  proper meaning of the term, she is certainly not a mystic. Rather is
  she a rapt and adoring pantheist.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:241 Je 24 ‘17 380w

       + =R of Rs= 55:436 Ap ‘17 260w

       + =Spec= 118:339 Mr 17 ‘17 100w

  “Mystic and mystical are terms that have long been in fashionable
  currency. ... Miss Evelyn Underhill has done more than any living
  English writer to redeem them and to clarify their true significance.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p499 O 19 ‘16 900w


=UNDERWOOD, JOHN CURTIS.= War flames. *$1.35 Macmillan 811 17-12602

  The poems of this book are for the most part long descriptive or
  narrative pieces in free verse, grouped by countries, Belgium,
  Germany, France, England, etc. In a prefatory note the author
  acknowledges indebtedness to various books, magazines and newspaper
  articles “from which material for many of his poems has been adapted
  directly, in part.”

  “He ends, by sheer tireless weight of creative energy, in overwhelming
  the reader physically rather than emotionally. ... Such work is
  valuable for its influence on the poetic consciousness of the age
  rather than for itself. It is the material for new poetic coinage. At
  the same time it would be unfair to Mr Underwood not to admit that he
  has written a vivid and suggestive book, even if it is not entirely
  successful as poetry.” Conrad Aiken

     + — =Dial= 63:56 Jl 19 ‘17 420w

  “Mr Underwood has made prose poems, each one a realistic picture or
  story of the meaning of the great war in individual lives. They are
  very bravely and beautifully written, conceived with the utmost
  gravity and sincerity of spirit. No war book has seemed to me to
  possess a greater dignity.”

       + =Ind= 91:513 S 29 ‘17 350w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:647 O ‘17 10w

  “There have been many books of war poems since 1914, but none so
  comprehensive, so athrill with the spirit that now animates America,
  the feeling that the cause of humanity and the divine principle of
  democracy are at stake, as ‘War flames.’ ... ‘The Marne,’ ‘The
  Lavoir,’ ‘Roads in France,’ and ‘Spring in Picardy’ touch the fount of
  the inspiration that gave the Marseillaise to Rouget de l’Isle.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:660 Je ‘17 170w


=UNITED STATES. COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC INFORMATION.= National service
handbook. il gratis Committee on public information, Washington, D.C.
17-26652

  “This book of two hundred and fifty pages is a highly condensed
  compendium of information. ... Some of the larger headings are the
  maintenance of standards of labor; welfare and philanthropic service
  at home; agencies for European war relief, the names and addresses of
  over a hundred being listed; religious organizations doing service;
  the capacities in which professional men and women can be of use; the
  financing of the war; the special impact of war on industry and
  commerce; agriculture and food supply; medical and nursing service—all
  this and more, besides full information as to the various lines of
  service in army, navy and aviation.”—New Repub

  “The usefulness of the book for reference purposes in libraries and
  newspaper offices, and for any individual who has some service to
  offer and wishes to know where and how to present it can hardly be
  overestimated.” J. D.

       + =New Repub= 12:139 S 1 ‘17 440w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:684 O ‘17 40w


=UNTERMEYER, LOUIS.= These times. *$1.25 Holt 811 17-10978

  The poems of this book are arranged in groups: The wave; Thirteen
  portraits; Havens; Dick [six poems for a child]; Battle-cries; Youth
  moralizes; Two rebels. Many of them are reprinted from magazines, The
  Century, Yale Review, The Masses, The Poetry Review, and others.

  “Rich in feeling but poor in artistry. Even when most successful he
  needs to concentrate and purify his verse and eliminate the dross from
  his metal. His ideas are bold, but he is too apt to philosophize and
  divagate, and mar his pictures with hasty, random strokes and coarse
  metaphors.” E: Garnett

     – + =Atlan= 120:368 S ‘17 270w

  “Perhaps the most arresting quality of Mr Untermeyer’s work—the more
  so because it is so rare in our twentieth-century singers—is its
  complete objectivity. There is nothing of morbid introspection. ...
  His outlook is essentially clear and wholesome.” R. T. P.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 25 ‘17 1650w

  “Mr Untermeyer’s ease in Delphi is comparable to that of some other
  persons in Zion. He profits by the restraints of brevity and the
  stanza; in space and freedom he unbends. He has a pleasant, buoyant
  lyric movement, rising sometimes to high resonance as in ‘Poetry,’ and
  his possession of the art that curves and crisps an epigram is
  demonstrated in ‘Faith,’ ‘A portrait,’ and ‘An old maid.’” O. W.
  Firkins

     – + =Nation= 105:244 S 6 ‘17 420w

  “One is grateful to Mr Untermeyer because he takes beauty into
  account, because he feels it, strives for it, and often, as he
  deserves, wins it for his own. For beauty too is grateful to Mr
  Untermeyer, one may fancy, and shines out through his work in many
  places. ... One trouble with Mr Untermeyer, indeed, is that he is not
  half enough content to be the good poet that he is. He is possessed of
  a gift and of a specialized, rather naïve philosophy of life, and his
  gift distinctly suffers for it. For life presents itself to him too
  much as being merely blind activity. ... Mr Untermeyer has fire, but
  it is not that which needs chastening. It is imagination he needs, the
  imagination of contemplation—the other half of poetry.” M. T.

     – + =New Repub= 13:189 D 15 ‘17 1600w

  “One section of the book, ‘Thirteen portraits,’ lives up to the
  promise of the former volume. ... Mr Untermeyer is at his happiest in
  the more formal rhymes. ... When we come to his attempts at
  polyrhythmic poetry, the less said the more charity.” Clement Wood

     – + =N Y Call= p12 Ap 22 ‘17 1150w

  “Mr Untermeyer’s clearest claim as a poet lies rather in a certain
  gray, flickering, now-you-see-it-and-now-you-don’t quality of
  imagination that flashes here and there upon his pages. It is the
  quality which made him so good a translator of Heine; possibly it is
  what makes him so delightful a parodist of other poets.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:287 Ag 5 ‘17 1000w

  “The book is longer than his previous volume, ‘Challenge’ and has
  greater variety of contents. ‘Thirteen portraits’ are the best work in
  the book, for they afford the author a display of his technical gifts,
  his easy satire and cleverness of phrase. ‘Eve’ and ‘Moses,’ two
  pretentious poems in blank verse, are less satisfactory than the
  lyrics, which are beautiful and most melodious.”

     + — =R of Rs= 55:660 Je ‘17 100w

         =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 300w

  “Mr Untermeyer has included too much in ‘These times.’ The best of his
  volume has his well-known qualities—a trenchant expression, an
  intolerance of social injustice, and an exhilaration in the force and
  beauty of nature, the strength and beauty of human affection. But
  there are poems here which are journalistic; that is, they interest us
  for the moment and we never return to them. ... The poet has grown
  intellectually since his first volume.” E: B. Reed

     + — =Yale R= n s 6:862 Jl ‘17 200w


=UPDEGRAFF, ALLAN.= Second youth; being, in the main, some account of
the middle comedy in the life of a New York bachelor. il *$1.35 (1c)
Harper 17-12137

  One can only believe that the rejuvenescence experienced by Roland
  Farwell Francis, somewhere between thirty and thirty-five, was in
  reality a first youth. Surely the deferential silk salesman as we
  first meet him, with his sideburns, gold-rimmed spectacles and black
  cutaway, had never been young. On Monday, March 13th, Mr Francis made
  an entry in his personal journal: “Noted another customer in
  particular to-day. Bought five yards of that new wild geranium.” Mr
  Francis had, as the note implies, noted other customers in particular,
  and he does not know at the time how very particular this one is to
  become, or that with the sale of five yards of the new wild geranium
  his youth is to begin. Mr Francis’s mild, but none the less amazing
  adventures will be followed with interest to their satisfactory close,
  when a feminine hand makes the final entry in the personal journal.

  “Mr Updegraff’s first novel is so good that our first thought is one
  of wonder that he has kept us waiting all these years for it—years, to
  be sure, which have not been barren, for he has vitally aroused our
  interest by his poetry and his shorter fiction.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 5 ‘17 1400w

  “In America we have not enough of this sort of light-handed humor.
  There is a touch of farce in the postulated situation, which you have
  to grant and are very willing to grant. Once that is granted or
  accepted, you move along in a romantic adventure which is conducted in
  the true spirit of comedy. The material is of the quality that ought
  to make good plays.” J: Macy

       + =Dial= 63:114 Ag 16 ‘17 120w

  “It is all absurd enough if you choose to make it so, but in the
  performance it has touches of characterization and serious feeling
  which keep it clear of the farcical and fairly entitle it to esteem as
  a bit of graceful and sympathetic human comedy.”

     + — =Nation= 105:179 Ag 16 ‘17 200w

  “It is as comedy that the story will most appeal—refined comedy of
  character, situation and manner, delicately portrayed and never
  lacking in genuine appreciation of the very things that are the
  subjects of its humor.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:186 My 13 ‘17 600w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:751 N ‘17 20w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 350w


=USSHER, CLARENCE DOUGLAS, and KNAPP, GRACE HIGLEY.=[2] American
physician in Turkey. il *$1.75 Houghton 17-27881

  “Dr Ussher went to Turkey about twenty years ago as a medical
  missionary. The call was sudden and urgent, but as soon as he could
  transfer his medical practice he sailed from Boston in the early
  spring of 1898, reaching Constantinople in June. His earlier
  experience had included the course in a theological seminary in
  Philadelphia and therefore he was as well fitted, if not better, for
  missionary work than many who are called upon to serve in that
  direction in foreign lands. After a period of travel, Dr Ussher
  established a hospital, hiring a private house for the purpose and
  being forced to overcome many obstacles. The closing chapters of this
  book tell of the massacres and deportations in Van and other provinces
  of Turkey.”—Boston Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:165 F ‘18

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 12 ‘17 1000w

  “Contains illuminating information with respect to the operation of
  the Turks in Armenia during the early months of the war.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:59 F 17 ‘18 70w

       + =Outlook= 117:654 D 19 ‘17 30w

  “Deserves wide reading on several counts.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 19 ‘18 490w




                                   V


=VACHELL, HORACE ANNESLEY.= Fishpingle; a romance of the countryside.
*$1.35 (3c) Doran 17-15975

  Fishpingle, butler to Sir Geoffrey Pomfret, is the leading character
  in this story. He stands in close relation to the family, and is
  involved in the love affairs of Alfred, the first footman, and
  Prudence, the still-room maid, and of Lionel, only son of Sir
  Geoffrey, and Joyce, the parson’s daughter. The author tells us in his
  preface that there is an “obvious purpose underlying the adventures
  and misadventures of the story.” This purpose is to picture the type
  of country squire who is a “true lover of the soil but helplessly
  ignorant of its potentialities,” and to make clear that this type of
  man is likely to become extinct unless he justifies his claim to
  existence by sticking to the land and concentrating his undivided
  energies upon it. The author’s comedy, “Fishpingle,” was produced at
  the Haymarket theater in 1916.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:28 O ‘17

  “Those familiar with the comedy seen at the Haymarket theatre may
  remember that the piece was reviewed at some length in the Athenæum
  for June, 1916. Mr Vachell now provides people who do not or cannot go
  to a theatre with the opportunity of becoming acquainted with a modern
  Admirable Crichton.”

         =Ath= p416 Ag ‘17 50w

  “A bit of very British comedy based upon a rather flimsy and
  perfunctory mystery. It might make a good movie-play, and that is the
  best we can say for it.” H. W. Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 46:341 N ‘17 60w

  “All that can be seriously commended in ‘Fishpingle,’ besides the
  title, is the attempt, rather half-hearted, to discuss in fictional
  terms the problem of the passing of England’s landed gentry. Beyond
  that, it is simply a conventionally cheerful story of the variety
  termed pleasant.”

     – + =Dial= 64:78 Ja 17 ‘18 90w

  “A smooth piece of writing, the work of an expert but uninspired
  craftsman. The book is neither stupid not sensational. It is a novel
  for the middle-class mind.” Harry Salpeter

     + — =NY Call= p15 O 14 ‘17 1000w

  “The tale is an interesting and a pleasant one, and it is told with a
  good deal of the charm that made ‘Quinneys’ so thoroughly delightful.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:322 S 2 ‘17 550w

  “There are two delightful characters in this book—the old-time English
  country squire and his butler. ... Apart from these two characters the
  story is hardly equal to many of Mr Vachell’s previous admirable
  novels.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 70w

  “Sounds a warning to English landholders that they must modernize
  their methods of farming on scientific lines, or be ‘scrapped.’ The
  serious note, however, is submerged in a charming story, in which the
  author creates another delightful character somewhat after the type of
  the quaint Quinney. But the serious note is not so completely hidden
  that the indictment of antiquated farming methods in England can not
  be readily discerned. The story ranks with the author’s best.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 350w


=VAIZEY, JESSIE (BELL) (MRS GEORGE DE HORNE VAIZEY) (JESSIE MANSERGH).=
Betty Trevor. il *$1.25 (2c) Putnam

  A story for girls. Betty is an English girl, daughter of a busy London
  doctor, and one of a big family of brothers and sisters. The Trevors
  live in an old-fashioned house on Brompton square. At the opening of
  the story they are new to the neighborhood and are finding their chief
  amusement in inventing romantic life histories for their neighbors.
  One of these is the “Pampered Pet,” a young girl of Betty’s age who
  appears to have too many of the good things of the world. But on
  nearer acquaintance she proves to be anything but the little snob they
  have pictured her. As the young people grow older they accept
  responsibilities and find their places in life. It is one of those
  stories that are on the borderline between girls’ books and grown-up
  novels.

  “It has more substance, better character drawing than is commonly
  found, a somewhat romantic plot and very real human interest.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 28 ‘17 100w

  “A clean, wholesome little volume.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:138 Ap 15 ‘17 200w


=VALLINGS, GABRIELLE.= Bindweed. *$1.50 (1c) Dodd (Eng ed 17-5403)

  Eugénie Massini, a young girl with a beautiful voice, attracts the
  notice of Mme Périntot, a teacher of singing, who interests herself in
  the girl and offers to take her as a pupil. But she encounters the
  opposition of Eugénie’s aunt, a harsh peasant woman, who lives in fear
  that the girl may follow in the footsteps of a wayward mother. But,
  learning that the girl is already in danger from the attentions of
  Gaston Hypolite, an opera singer, she puts her under the wise care of
  Mme Périntot. Gaston, however, is not to be put off. He persists, with
  no other intention than that of making Eugénie his mistress. In the
  meantime the aunt, from long brooding on the girl’s possible fate, has
  gone insane. She attempts revenge on Gaston. From this experience he
  emerges a wiser man, and, having been won over to Eugénie’s own high
  conception of love, asks her hand in marriage.

  “This new writer shows no mean power of characterization, inherited no
  doubt from her Kingsley ancestry. She can also create atmosphere and
  steep her readers in scenes from life. The development of her theme,
  on the other hand, reveals little deep truth and thought.”

     + — =Ath= p482 O ‘16 90w

  “‘Pamela,’ warmed up in the French fashion and boiled down to
  one-fourth of its traditional length. ... The book promises no great
  distraction for those readers who care to have their authors look upon
  life neither through a rose- nor a yellow-tinted medium.”

       — =Dial= 63:74 Jl 19 ‘17 90w

  “The author is apparently familiar with certain phases of French life
  and her dialogue is often good, but lack of skill in the handling of
  the novel as a whole combines with its too great length to make it
  drag badly and fail to hold one’s interest.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:211 My 27 ‘17 420w


=VANDERBLUE, HOMER BEWS.= Railroad valuation. (Hart, Schaffner and Marx
prize essays) *$1.50 Houghton 385 17-10693

  A scientific study of one of the big problems before the
  Interstate commerce commission. It is not only a study in the
  economics of railroads but also a study in the economics of the
  distribution of income. Contents: Valuation and regulation;
  Physical valuation—“Cost of reproduction”—Land; Physical
  valuation—“Cost of reproduction”—Capital goods; Physical
  valuation—Unimpaired investment; The intangible elements of “fair
  value”; The return to the railroad; Bibliography; Index.

  “Mr Vanderblue’s scientific study is a masterful resumé of varied,
  undigested, unassimilated, and discordant views and data, but it does
  not clear the atmosphere nor lift the smoke of battle.” A. M. Sakolski

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:632 S ‘17 800w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:43 N ‘17

         =Cleveland= p80 Je ‘17 20w

  “This book deals perforce with many legal problems of the past, and Dr
  Vanderblue covers these phases in a clear and praiseworthy manner. The
  unfortunate point is that the entire work appears colorless. It is a
  pity that Dr Vanderblue has not given a more individual treatment
  embodying his own ideas on a subject so much in the public mind. The
  present work is rather on the order of a summary of what has been
  accomplished.”

     + — =Dial= 63:217 S 13 ‘17 350w

  “The book is non-partisan in its attitude toward the problem, but
  highly technical and not to be recommended for popular reading.”

         =Ind= 91:31 Jl 7 ‘17 130w

  “The analysis of the principles of valuation for rate-making is the
  most complete, most closely reasoned, and altogether the best general
  exposition of the subject extant. The most important contribution of
  the work is its criticism of the practices of valuation. The author,
  however, radically overestimates the importance of the inevitable
  inaccuracy.” S. H. Slichter

     + — =J Pol Econ= 26:98 Ja ‘18 500w

  “An interesting and valuable piece of criticism of a destructive
  kind. ... The available material has been well digested and its
  presentation is lucid and concise. Nevertheless, we cannot but wish
  that the author had introduced his discussion of detail by a positive
  and constructive statement of fundamental principles.”

     + — =Nation= 104:657 My 31 ‘17 700w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:91 Je ‘17


=VAN DYKE, HENRY.= Fighting for peace. *$1.25 Scribner 940.91 17-30303

  “Dr Van Dyke last spring resigned his position as minister to the
  Netherlands and Luxemburg, which he had held for four years, in order
  to be free to come home and write for the enlightenment of his
  fellow-countrymen of the doings of Germany as he had seen and known
  them. This book is one of the results of that action. Parts of it have
  appeared in recent numbers of Scribner’s Magazine, but to these he has
  added chapters on the causes of the war and the kind of peace for
  which we are fighting.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:125 Ja ‘18

  “No contribution to the literary or strictly informative output of the
  war has been read with keener interest.” F. P. H.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 N 24 ‘17 930w

  “There is not much that is new in Dr Van Dyke’s account of the coming
  and the conduct of the war, but what he tells of the things he saw
  himself—and he saw much—has the interest of personal experience and
  the weight of personal indictment.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:492 N 25 ‘17 700w

  “To anyone who may be in doubt about the anomaly of fighting for peace
  we strongly recommend Dr Van Dyke’s volume.” A. O.

       + =Pub W= 92:2026 D 8 ‘17 440w

  “Dr Van Dyke speaks with no uncertain note.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 30 ‘17 250w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p51 Ja 31 ‘18 980w


=VAN DYKE, HENRY.= Red flower. *50c Scribner 811 17-31290

  “Dr Van Dyke’s experience as minister to Holland made him as it were a
  spiritual eyewitness to the inner consciousness of the war on both
  sides, and what this little book presents is a kind of verse report of
  what he felt rather than saw. ... Slender as this collection is, it is
  well defined in grouping, and through ‘Premonition,’ ‘The trial by
  fire,’ ‘France and Belgium,’ ‘Interludes in Holland,’ to ‘Enter
  America,’ he strikes the salient notes of the war from its beginning
  to his return home in the spring of this year. The little book is a
  memorial of the poet’s experience with the effect of this war upon his
  spirit and lays stress upon those notes that have a moral and national
  righteousness in the conflict.”—Boston Transcript

         =A L A Bkl= 14:159 F ‘18

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 5 ‘17 800w

       + =N Y Times= 23:39 F 3 ‘18 90w

  “Some of the most melodious lyrics given us by Dr Van Dyke’s ripened
  and finely tempered poetic talent are in this little book. Notable
  among them are: ‘The bells of Malines,’ and ‘The Oxford thrushes.’”

       + =R of Rs= 57:105 Ja ‘18 100w


=VAN KLEECK, MARY.= Seasonal industry. il *$1.50 (3c) Russell Sage
foundation 331.4 17-14558

  In her investigation of the millinery trade in New York city Miss Van
  Kleeck “has penetrated to the one all-effecting aspect of the
  industry—its ‘appalling irregularity.’ ... In view of the constant
  depression upon wages by unemployment, the keen competition of a trade
  attracting a tremendous supply of labor, and the unorganized state of
  the industry (some slight attempt to unionize the workers is now being
  made), Miss Van Kleeck urges public control of the industry through
  the establishment of a minimum wage board and describes the beneficial
  results of such a system in Victoria. Around the central fact of the
  seasonal character of the millinery trade Miss Van Kleeck groups many
  interesting and valuable details. ... Throughout the study, comments
  by the workers themselves and pictures of their struggle to make both
  ends meet illuminate ‘dry-as-dust’ statistics.” (Survey) There are
  many tables, four appendices, and a number of illustrations.

  Reviewed by Edith Abbott

         =Am J Soc= 23:552 Ja ‘18 160w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:152 F ‘18

  “Miss Van Kleeck brings a point of view and a directness of attack to
  her field of study which make her conclusions convincing. Especially
  is this true of her demand for some sort of effective public
  regulation of the trade in the interest of the welfare of the
  workers.”

       + =Dial= 63:349 O 11 ‘17 170w

  “Miss Van Kleeck’s exhaustive survey of enough facts to justify
  valid general conclusions becomes almost meticulous in its
  conscientiousness. Comparative tables and charts and median curves,
  all the technical instruments of the newer and more scientific
  method of sociological investigation, abound. ... The main outlines
  of the condition in the trade emerge with sharp enough emphasis to
  give the general reader a correct orientation. And for the special
  student there are the intricate and innumerable details. ... It is a
  real labor of love, the kind that is always distasteful to the easy
  theorizer. ‘A seasonal industry’ is a piece of first-class
  investigation and analysis.” H. S.

       + =New Repub= 12:55 Ag 11 ‘17 900w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:666 O ‘17

  “Noteworthy for the amount of up-to-date information it contains
  regarding an industry of which comparatively little is known outside
  the ranks of the workers employed in it.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:440 O ‘17 50w

  “Part of the study was begun as early as 1908, when the Committee on
  women’s work was connected with the Alliance employment bureau. Later
  when the committee became a department of the Russell Sage foundation
  it directed the inquiry into the millinery trade for the Factory
  investigating commission of New York. Although the material has
  apparently been brought down to date, the interviews with employers
  and employes were held between 1908 and 1912, and the payroll study
  was made in 1914. Delays in getting the data into print somewhat
  invalidate the use of the statistics for present quotation.” M. C.

     + — =Survey= 38:370 Jl 28 ‘17 820w


=VAN LOAN, CHARLES EMMETT.= Old man Curry. il *$1.35 (2c) Doran 17-25513

  Stories about horses and horse racing make up this volume. The
  publishers announce that it is the first of a series by the author
  “dealing with the major sports of American life.” Old man Curry, a
  veteran horseman, with a faculty for adapting the wisdom of Solomon to
  his own ends, is the central character in the stories. Contents:
  Levelling with Elisha; Playing even for Obadiah; By a hair; The last
  chance; Sanguinary Jeremiah; Eliphaz, late Fairfax; The redemption
  handicap; A morning workout; Egyptian corn; The modern judgment of
  Solomon.

  “Holds interest both because of the well depicted action of the race
  track, and the astute quaintness of the principal character. It is a
  story men will like.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:171 F ‘18

  “They will find appreciation with devotees of the track and the
  paddock, as they have all the excitement and the dash of life on the
  turf.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 10 ‘17 150w

         =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 60w

  “Not since David Harum delighted his country-wide audience with the
  garnered wisdom of the rustic world have we had a hero whose talk was
  such a mosaic of wise saws.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:390 O 7 ‘17 200w


=VAN SCHAICK, GEORGE GRAY.= Top-floor idyl. il *$1.50 (1½c) Small
17-23651

  “David Cole, who tells the story, is a middle-aged bachelor, a writer,
  quite content with his modest room on the top floor of Mrs Milliken’s
  boarding house, near Washington square, and his friendship for Frieda
  Long, an artist and a spinster, fat, good-heartedness personified. One
  day, however, it chances that the room across the hall from David’s is
  engaged by the young American widow of a French soldier killed in the
  battle of the Marne. Her baby arrives before it is expected, and
  David ... interests himself in the welfare of the young mother and her
  little Paul. ... Of course there is a love story, and everything comes
  out splendidly in the end.”—N Y Times

  “Will be popular.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:63 N ‘17

  “Mr Van Schaick’s new novel is a sort of fairy tale with the ogres and
  witches left out. With a single exception every character in the book
  of any importance—the baby included—is as good as gold. Some of them
  are considerably better. ... Touches of fun do much to relieve its
  sentimentality.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:388 O 7 ‘17 300w


=VAN TESLAAR, JAMES S.= When I was a boy in Roumania. (Children of other
lands books) il *75c (3c) Lothrop 17-13431

  After coming to America, the author studied in the University of
  California, completed a medical course, and is now a practicing
  physician. In this book he has written the story of his boyhood for
  American children. He writes of: How the Roumanians dress; Play time;
  Life in the hills; Taming the forces of nature; Out-of-door
  amusements; The Roumanian’s national pastime: dancing; Roumanian
  music, etc.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:29 O ‘17

  “Gives a clear picture of Roumanian national life.”

       + =Cleveland= p127 N ‘17 20w

         =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 30w

       + =St Louis= 15:401 N ‘17 30w

  “This book, though written especially for the young, will give any
  reader an adequate idea of the habits, methods of study, amusements of
  the people of this once happy land.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 1 ‘17 110w


=VAN VALKENBURGH, AGNES=, comp. Selected articles on military training
in schools and colleges, including military camps. (Debaters’ handbook
ser.) *$1.25 (1½c) Wilson, H. W. 355.07 17-9594

  The material in this debaters’ handbook considers the question:
  “Resolved: That a system of compulsory military training in schools
  and colleges should be adopted by the United States.” It consists of
  brief, bibliography and selected reprints. In the section devoted to
  General discussion various plans for military training, including the
  Swiss and Australian systems are outlined. Affirmative and Negative
  discussion follows. At the close there is a small group of articles
  concerning military camps.

  “A timely volume.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:334 My ‘17

  “This book will prove of considerable value, as the compiler has
  introduced much of the wisest theory that has been expressed on both
  sides of the question.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p13 Ap 7 ‘17 250w

         =Cleveland= p54 Ap ‘17 10w

       + =Ind= 90:127 Ap 14 ‘17 30w

  “The compiler has been commendably impartial.”

       + =Nation= 105:155 Ag 9 ‘17 90w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:58 Ap ‘17

         =Pittsburgh= 22:327 Ap ‘17

  “Topic leaves room for another book on the general question of
  compulsory military training and compulsory service. The London Nation
  can be drawn upon for eloquent arguments against conscription.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 60w

  “Miss Van Valkenburgh’s selection of material covers a wide range,
  from publications of the United States war college to educational
  journals and soldier’s notes. It seems to be a trifle weak on
  suggestions of methods for getting the good of military training
  without the bad, that is, on a strong program of physical education.”
  W. D. L.

     + — =Survey= 38:372 Jl 28 ‘17 120w

  “The section discussing military training camps will be specially
  useful.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:154 My ‘17 70w


=VAN VALKENBURGH, AGNES=, comp. Selected articles on national defense;
v. 2, including compulsory military service. (Debaters’ handbook ser.)
*$1.25 (1½c) Wilson, H. W. 355.7 17-12949

  “Volume one of ‘National defense,’ compiled by Corinne Bacon, was
  published in September, 1915, and was followed in January, 1916, by
  ‘Advance sheets’ of volume two. A small portion of the material in the
  ‘Advance sheets’ is reprinted here, notably the president’s message to
  Congress, December 7, 1915. ... The questions of aviation and
  submarine warfare are considered here only incidentally, and the
  allied topics of military training in schools and colleges and
  non-resistance are omitted altogether since handbooks have been
  published on these subjects. Since the question of compulsory military
  service is of especial interest at present, this phase of the subject
  has been selected for the brief.” (Explanatory note)

  “Has a very complete and partly annotated bibliography (34p.).”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:378 Je ‘17

  “Most useful.”

       + =Ind= 90:127 Ap 14 ‘17 30w

  “A desirable addition to the table of readers who wish to hear both
  sides of a first-class social question and keep abreast of the deeper
  current of daily events.” W. E. K.

       + =Survey= 38:370 Jl 28 ‘17 190w

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:154 My ‘17 50w


=VAN VECHTEN, CARL.= Interpreters and interpretations. *$1.50 (2c) Knopf
780.4 17-29869

  A collection of papers by the author of “Music and bad manners” and
  “Music after the great war.” Some of them are reprinted from the
  Bellman, the Musical Quarterly, and other periodicals. The papers are
  divided into the two groups suggested by the title. The interpreters
  comprising the first group, are Olive Fremstad; Geraldine Farrar; Mary
  Garden; Feodor Chaliapine; Mariette Mazarin; Yvette Guilbert; and
  Waslav Nijinsky. Among the essays included as Interpretations are The
  problem of style in the production of opera; Notes on the “Armide” of
  Gluck; The importance of electrical picture concerts; Why music is
  unpopular. In “The great American composer,” another essay of the
  group, the author makes a spirited plea for appreciation of ragtime.
  In “Modern musical fiction,” he reviews recent novels on musical
  themes.

         =Cleveland= p11 Ja ‘18 40w

  “Mr Van Vechten’s most pronounced opinions seem to be on the favorable
  arena which the ‘movies’ offer for good symphonic programs, and on the
  duty of the American composer to build his art on the indigenous
  raciness of Irving Berlin rather than on the classic forms. He is no
  more explicit than the other critics, however, as to how the composer
  is to use this material. ... The proportion between scholarship and
  thought is not maintained. In the present book there might be more of
  the latter commodity.”

     – + =New Repub= 13:sup18 N 17 ‘17 180w

  “All who enjoy a discussion of things and people musical from the
  human rather than the academic standpoint will find much to interest
  them in ‘Interpreters and interpretations.’” Lavergne Miller

       + =N Y Call= p15 D 29 ‘17 330w


=VAN VECHTEN, CARL.= Music and bad manners. *$1.50 Knopf 780.4 16-23824

  “The title essay of this little volume is a running commentary on the
  personal peculiarities of certain great musicians. Of more permanent
  value is the chapter on ‘Spain and music,’ which is said to be the
  first attempt in English to classify and describe Spanish music and
  composers.” (R of Rs) Other papers are, Music for the movies, Wagner’s
  ideals, The bridge burners, A new principle in music, Leo Ornstein.

  “Excellent essays in musical criticism, popular but scholarly, and
  distinguished by clarity and humor. The monograph on Spanish music is
  a specially valuable study in a little known field.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:208 F ‘17

  “The description of Spanish dance music and dances is exceedingly
  interesting as well as enlightening, and the whole chapter has a
  distinct value in acquainting the reader with the musical progress of
  a musical people whose records are nowhere adequately presented in
  English. ... It is impossible to test the theories and suggestions in
  these essays by any chemistry or mechanics. Their soundness or
  unsoundness can only be eventually a matter of history. But the
  essayist has his eyes turned in a promising direction, and his views
  will meet the approval of many close students of modern music.”
  Russell Ramsey

       + =Dial= 62:21 Ja 11 ‘17 1650w

       + =Lit D= 54:567 Mr 3 ‘17 130w

  “Carl Van Vechten is fundamentally and whole-heartedly
  progressive. ... One of his longest essays, and the one most
  interesting to the general reader and music lover, ‘The bridge
  burners,’ is largely a refutation of Richard Aldrich’s criticisms,
  published in the New York Times. ... Last in the series is a sketch of
  Leo Ornstein, which throws new light on the psychology of that
  remarkable genius.” La Vergne Miller

       + =N Y Call= p14 F 25 ‘17 800w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:317 Ap ‘17

       + =R of Rs= 55:219 F ‘17 50w


=VANZYPE, GUSTAVE.= Mother Nature; Progress; two Belgian plays; tr. by
Barrett H. Clark. *$1.25 Little 842 17-28823

  There is an eight page introduction by the translator on Gustave
  Vanzype and the modern Belgian drama. In this Mr Clark states that
  “Vanzype believes that dramatists ought to use the stage as a pulpit.”
  “Mother Nature” (“La souveraine”) deals with the yearnings of a
  disappointed wife for motherhood. “Progress” (“Les étapes”) shows the
  struggle between succeeding generations; how the rising generation
  must always attack what the preceding generation seems to have
  established. It is the story of a family in which father, son-in-law,
  and grandson are all doctors. Both plays are said to have been
  successfully produced in Belgium.

  “The first play is artificial; the second is much more moving and its
  theme seems to work out naturally in the conflict of characters and
  events.”

     + — =Cleveland= p6 Ja ‘18 100w

  “Vanzype is said to be one of the most successful of his
  fellow-dramatists in depicting the character of the modern Belgian,
  and his plays, therefore, give an insight into the hearts and souls of
  the little nation whose heroism has won the admiration of the world.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:578 D 30 ‘17 190w

         =R of Rs= 57:109 Ja ‘18 90w


=VEATCH, ARTHUR CLIFFORD.= Quito to Bogotá. il *$3 Doran 918.6 17-15087

  “In ‘Quito to Bogotá’ A. C. Veatch, who is a well-known British
  engineer, and the author of several books of travel, gives a narrative
  of a trip over the Andes from the capital of Ecuador to that of
  Colombia. His traveling companion was Lord Murray, a Scottish peer,
  who furnishes a readable introduction to the main work.”—N Y Times

  “Holds more interest to the man planning an actual journey in the
  country or who is considering it as a field for commercial enterprise
  than to the arm chair traveler.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:165 F ‘18

  “His is the careful study of a trained traveller, geographer and
  geologist, and it is prepared with a sympathetic touch that must
  please all lovers of these northern regions of South America.” T:
  Walsh

       + =Bookm= 46:606 Ja ‘18 330w

  “Its business basis doubtless explains the lack of personal element in
  the book, altho that, too, lies often in the personality of the
  writer. Long, technical, and comprehensive narrative.”

     + — =Lit D= 56:36 Ja 26 ‘18 300w

  “The author makes you see what meets his own eye, and you have the
  benefit of the deductions from what he sees in addition.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:312 Ag 26 ‘17 500w

         =Outlook= 116:376 Jl 4 ‘17 100w


=VEBLEN, THORSTEIN B.= Inquiry into the nature of peace and the terms of
its perpetuation. *$2 (2c) Macmillan 327 17-16855

  Professor Veblen has extended the investigation into the nature of
  peace begun by Immanuel Kant “into a field of inquiry which in Kant’s
  time still lay over the horizon of the future.” He says “The intrinsic
  merits of peace at large, as against those of warlike enterprise, it
  should be said, do not here come in question. That question lies in
  the domain of preconceived opinion, so that for the purposes of this
  inquiry it will have no significance except as a matter to be inquired
  into; the main point of the inquiry being the nature, causes and
  consequences of such a preconception favoring peace, and the
  circumstances that make for a contrary preconception in favor of war.”
  Contents: Introductory: On the state and its relation to war and
  peace; On the nature and uses of patriotism; On the conditions of a
  lasting peace; Peace without honour; Peace and neutrality; Elimination
  of the unfit; Peace and the price system. In chapter 3, On the
  conditions of a lasting peace, the imperialistic aims of Germany and
  Japan are examined. In the next chapter, Peace without honour, the
  beneficial results of non-resistance as exemplified in China are
  discussed. In the last chapter the author comes to what is to him the
  heart of the matter, the menace to peace inherent in the capitalist
  system.

  “Among books [dealing with the problem of readjustment after the war]
  there can be found few if any manifesting a deeper penetration or a
  more impartial treatment of the mode of securing a permanent peace and
  of the obstacles which lie in the way of it than this volume by
  Professor Veblen. It is a dispassionate, objective, and uncompromising
  treatment of a most important subject. It is written in an attractive
  style. Droll humor lights up a page now and then, and in the treatment
  of the foibles of men and nations there is the trenchant irony that is
  characteristic of the style Veblenesque.” I. W. Howerth

   + + — =Am J Soc= 23:408 N ‘17 2200w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:40 N ‘17

         =Cleveland= p131 D ‘17 30w

  “Mr Veblen’s manner of writing is symphonic; what he repeats is not
  repetition in the common sense of the word; no idea is quite the same
  after he has stated it twice or even three times. The theme may be the
  same, but the complex working out of the theme gives it the value of
  an entirely new composition. Above all there stands a masterly
  intellect, holding the various strands of fact and thought securely in
  its grasp and weaving them into patterns of compelling truth.” M. S.
  Handman

       + =Dial= 62:514 Je 14 ‘17 1700w

  “Written in the author’s usual flowing and ironical style, always
  crisp though often wordy. The reader who has plenty of time will enjoy
  reading all that Mr Veblen has to say; the hurried reader will gather
  all that Mr Veblen means by skipping the last half of nearly every
  paragraph. ... Perhaps the most interesting thing in his book is the
  very definite set of peace terms which he proposes.”

         =Nation= 105:14 Jl 5 ‘17 1100w

  “Thorstein Veblen is an American, was graduated from an American
  university, in the ‘eighties, and has been teaching in American
  universities ever since. ... It is hard intellectual labor to read any
  of his books, and to skim him is impossible. ... This new book of his,
  finished February, 1917, is, so far as I know, the most momentous work
  in English on the encompassment of lasting peace. ... The
  recommendation of Mr Veblen is not merely the recommendation of a
  great philosopher of industrialism. It is not his relentless logic
  alone that elevates him. It is the democratic bias which ‘The nature
  of peace’ indicates.” F. H.

       + =New Repub= 11:113 My 26 ‘17 2050w

  “The work abounds in the peculiar quiet irony that marks many of his
  previous works, notably the famous ‘Theory of the leisure class.’ The
  reasoning is the dialectic method applied by Marx and other great
  socialist writers, and in this method Veblen is a past master.” J. W.

       + =N Y= Call p14 Jl 1 ‘17 800w

  “It is only when one reaches the final phase of Mr Veblen’s argument
  that one clearly perceives that the whole work is, in effect, a bitter
  criticism of the existing social order. Yet, at lowest, Mr Veblen’s
  analysis is clarifying and his warnings are well-timed.”

     + — =No Am= 206:633 O ‘17 1500w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:701 O ‘17 40w

  “It may be urged against his latest book that it is little more than
  an elaborate statement of orthodox socialism, and so perhaps it is.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 1150w

  “This book is written for the student; no concessions are made to the
  general reader in the way of index or manageable chapter-divisions.
  The compensation will be found in a lucidity of exposition, wealth of
  vocabulary and epigrammatic crispness which mark all Dr Veblen’s
  works. The book will do much to stimulate American and English readers
  to clearer thinking on the task now confronting world-statesmanship.”
  Bruno Lasker

       + =Survey= 38:554 S 22 ‘17 1050w

  “We have seldom read a book written in a style so repellently
  ponderous.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p383 Ag 9 ‘17 70w


=VENIZELOS, ELEUTHERIOS.= Greece in her true light; tr. by Socrates A.
Xanthaky and Nicholas G: Sakellarios. $2 Sakellarios and Xanthaky, 56 W.
30th St., N.Y. 949.5 16-25135

  The book consists of “a collection of speeches of M. Venizelos. These
  speeches of a man who is not only the greatest statesman of Greece,
  but one of the greatest statesmen of his generation, aim to express
  the policy and situation of Greece in the world war.” (Educ R) “For
  the greater part the work deals with the events of the past two years.
  We have in full the two memoranda of advice addressed by Mr Venizelos
  to King Constantine, and the expounding of his policy before the Greek
  parliament. Also an address drawn up by Venizelos and adopted by the
  people at Athens in August of the present year for presentation to the
  king. Well condensed chapters in the book tell of the public career of
  Venizelos, his share in the work for the union of his native island
  Crete with Greece, his part in national Greek politics, leading the
  reform movement in Athens, his statesmanship in making possible the
  alliance of the Balkan states, his share in the London conference
  after the war with Turkey, his work in preparing Greece for the second
  Balkan war and his representing Greece at the Bucharest conference
  after that war.” (Boston Transcript)

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 13 ‘17 350w

  “A human document of exceptional importance and fascinating
  interest. ... The translation has been excellently done.”

       + =Educ R= 54:422 N ‘17 80w


=VERDAVAINE, GEORGES.= Pictures of ruined Belgium; 72 pen and ink
sketches drawn on the spot by L: Berden. *$3 (3½c) Lane 940.91 17-25516

  Monsieur Verdavaine is art critic of the Independence Belge. “The
  text, printed in French and English on opposite pages, embodies the
  facts ascertained after careful investigation by official inquiry, and
  no attempt has been made to exaggerate them; and equally plain and
  straightforward is the story told by the illustrations, which consist
  of drawings made from photographs by Monsieur Berden, an architect by
  profession, who spent eighteen months in going from place to place
  gathering material for this record of German barbarity.” (Int Studio)
  The translation is by J. Lewis May. The book is dedicated to the
  relatives of Miss Cavell and Captain Fryatt.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:90 D ‘17

  “A terrible book. It is like a new canto of the ‘Inferno.’ Every page
  contains a heart-clutching horror. There is no attempt at fine
  writing; it is a plain narrative of the campaign of frightfulness
  waged by the German general staff. The illustrations have a sort of
  kinship with the famous engravings of Piranesi. They have only one
  artistic fault, and that is that too many details are introduced. Mr
  May’s translation is admirable. It deserves to be read by all lovers
  of decency and fair play.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 26 ‘17 710w

         =Int Studio= 62:81 Ag ‘17 150w

  “Beautiful and moving book.”

       + =Lit D= 55:52 D 8 ‘17 110w

       + =Outlook= 117:521 N 28 ‘17 40w

         =R of Rs= 57:215 F ‘18 40w

  “To any one who remembers Louvain or Dinant, M. Berden’s admirable
  drawings of their ruins will be inexpressibly painful. M. Verdavaine’s
  narrative of the massacres and outrages committed by the Huns is as
  temperately phrased as any right-minded man could make it.”

       + =Spec= 118:675 Je 16 ‘17 170w

  “M. Verdavaine drew from official records the story of those fateful
  weeks in 1914. If one lacks full measure of indignation, horror, or
  information as to the tragedy, it is here in abundance.”

       + =Springfield Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 200w

  “For a simple, almost matter of fact narration of a series of crimes,
  this one can be recommended to the general reader. He will find in it
  plenty of murder, arson, and ingenious cruelty—things the Anglo-Saxon
  discusses without blushing; but M. Verdavaine, perhaps warned by his
  publisher, has almost entirely suppressed reference to sins against
  chastity, to sadistic manifestations, and to the perfectly
  authenticated orgies of filth indulged in by the invaders of Belgium
  and northern France. The charge is, therefore, not complete; but it is
  enough.” C: C. Clarke

       + =Yale R= n s 7:428 Ja ‘18 850w


=VERHAEREN, ÉMILE.= Afternoon; tr. by C: R. Murphy. *$1 Lane 841 17-7037

  A translation of “Les heures d’aprés-midi.” Like the volume preceding
  it, “The sunlit hours,” it is a book of love songs. Love has come to
  its full maturity, fulfilling its early promise, as the midsummer
  garden, pictured in one after the other of the poems, fulfils the
  promise of spring.

       + =Cleveland= p65 My ‘17 60w

  “Surely no translation will satisfy those who can appreciate the
  original. Take, for instance, this verse: ‘Je te regards, et tour les
  jours je te découvre.’ Mr Murphy renders Verhaeren quite literally:
  ‘And when I look at you I make discoveries,’ but the abyss that
  separates poetry from prose lies between the two. Still, frequently
  the translator catches the true rhythm of the original.”

     + — =Dial= 62:486 My 31 ‘17 250w

  “This man adds another to the immortal line of great witnesses who
  emerge at intervals to abash our skepticism with fresh proofs that
  loftiness and ardor, that purity and rapture, may interfuse in a
  passion which they combine to ennoble.” O. W. Firkins

       + =Nation= 105:175 Ag 16 ‘17 240w

       + =R of Rs= 55:438 Ap ‘17 50w

  “Carried away by the impetuous flow of this thought and emotion, he
  can paint a picture with the care, restraint, and the precision of the
  Parnassians.” E: B. Reed

         =Yale R= n s 6:860 Jl ‘17 400w


=VERHAEREN, ÉMILE.= Love poems; tr. by F. S. Flint. *$1.25 Houghton 841
17-17076

  “The cycle is strung on the thread of a life’s long experience. ‘The
  shining hours,’ ‘The hours of afternoon,’ ‘The hours of evening,’ are
  the divisions into which the poems are grouped. ... The imagery of the
  cycle is that of the garden, loved, sheltered, beautiful, with its
  roses, its ponds, its lilies, the garden of the glowing summer, of the
  autumn, still loved when winter comes.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:16 O ‘17

  “In spite of the impressiveness, the fine rhetoric and dramatic force
  of the four poetical dramas, there is a charm about the verse of
  Verhaeren, which lingers longer and holds us more intensely than do
  the plays. A cycle of his love lyrics has been translated by Mr Flint,
  who also translated ‘Philip II.’” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 190w

  “Translations in poetic prose of the author’s ‘Heures claires’ and
  ‘Les heures aprés midi,’ poems of serene and spiritualized beauty,
  picturing the joys of wedded love against the background of a
  beautiful garden. They have also appeared in the more satisfactory
  verse translations of Charles R. Murphy as ‘The sunlit hours’ and
  ‘Afternoon.’”

     + — =Cleveland= p105 S ‘17 50w

  “These poems are exquisite—not only in the sense of a fair jeweled
  loveliness, but in a tenderness, a depth, a universal beauty and
  reality that make the most-sought-for words about them seem but
  trivial things. How much music of phrasing may be lost in [the prose]
  translation, those of us who read them only in English cannot know;
  but the beauty of their expression, in word and in image, of deep and
  exquisite human feeling, is here in the English version.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:335 S 9 ‘17 1000w

       + =St Louis= 15:335 S ‘17 20w


=VERRILL, ALPHEUS HYATT.= Book of camping. il *$1 (2c) Knopf 796
17-18605

  Contents: Camps and camping; How and where to camp; Camp housekeeping;
  Trailing and tramping; How to trap and why; Emergency hints. The
  illustrations show forms of blazes, how to make moccasins, camp
  furniture, etc.

  “Aims to supply the beginner’s need for a primer in woodcraft, and in
  the main it succeeds in its purpose. Especially valuable for its
  practical hints about camp sites, camp housekeeping, cooking, and
  accidents. To [the old woodsman] the directions for homemade traps and
  moccasins are reminiscent of the days when he really believed all that
  was set forth in Dan Beard’s ‘American boy’s handy book.’ This
  fault—the fault of telling how to make clumsy things that can better
  be bought—often gets into ‘how-to’ books.”

     + — =Dial= 63:116 Ag 16 ‘17 170w

       + =Ind= 91:297 Ag 25 ‘17 60w

  “Up-to-date, practical book based on a wide knowledge of camping.
  Contains almost everything a camper would want to know.”

         =N J Lib Bul= p7 Ap ‘17 19w

         =St Louis= 15:372 O ‘17 40w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ja 13 ‘18 50w


=VERRILL, ALPHEUS HYATT.=[2] Book of the West Indies. il *$2.50 Dutton
917.29 17-29601

  “Mr Verrill in his ‘Book of the West Indies’ has a chapter upon our
  lately acquired Virgin Islands. He is enthusiastic over the beauty and
  the fascination of these islands, their possibilities as health
  resorts and their future as producers of sugar cane and bay rum, and
  in commerce. His volume of nearly 500 pages is appropriately named
  ‘The book of the West Indies,’ for no such comprehensive and
  thoroughgoing account of the archipelago has hitherto been attempted.
  The author carries you from island to island, big and little alike,
  and describes the scenes, the people, the manners and customs, the
  climate, sandwiches in an outline of the history, tells of the
  commercial and industrial possibilities.”—N Y Times

  Reviewed by A. M. Chase

       + =Bookm= 46:335 N ‘17 70w

  “It is a book that a traveler can use as a guide book, a man of
  business as a source of information and a general reader for the pure
  pleasure of its colorful and informative narrative.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:579 D 30 ‘17 260w

  “The book is well worth while.”

       + =Outlook= 117:575 D 5 ‘17 40w

  “A good description of the Islands, with so much of history as is
  requisite to meet an intelligent traveler’s demands for information.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:219 F 18 ‘20w


=VICKERS, LESLIE.= Training for the trenches; a practical handbook based
upon personal experience during the first two years of the war in
France. il *$1 (4c) Doran 355 17-17549

  Captain Vickers is lecturer on trench warfare, Department of military
  service, Columbia university and late lieutenant of the Seaforth
  Highlanders. He states that he “intends this little book primarily for
  the use of those who are civilians in the process of becoming
  soldiers.” It includes chapters on: Health; Disease; Vermin;
  Protection of trenches: Artillery fire; Gas and liquid fire; The
  attack; Equipment for the field, etc. There are helpful full-page
  illustrations.

         =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 40w

  “The book ought to be read by every American soldier, present and
  prospective, who crosses the ocean to fight for liberty. No man in
  preparation for that duty could be given a more useful gift or one
  that, provided its advice be heeded, would be more likely to increase
  his value as an efficient soldier.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:264 Jl 15 ‘17 130w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:697 O ‘17 60w

         =St Louis= 15:359 O ‘17 20w

  “A practical manual based upon personal experiences of the first two
  years of the war. Capt. Vickers devotes considerable space to the
  all-important question of health.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 5 ‘17 100w


=VINOGRADOV, PAVEL GAVRILOVICH.= Self government in Russia. *$1.25
Dutton 947 (Eng ed 16-12746)

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “The author, a Russian professor at Oxford, exiled for his liberal
  views, is an eminent authority on Russian institutions, and these
  lectures take on an added significance in view of recent events.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:348 My ‘17

  “Had we more generally known the facts given in this book, we should
  have understood how the revolution came about and why it was so
  orderly and effective.” S: N. Harper

       + =Dial= 63:23 Je 28 ‘17 1050w

  “No living man has a firmer grasp upon the political history of the
  Russian people or could display greater skill in making it clear,
  within such brief compass, to English readers.”

       + =Nation= 104:194 F 15 ‘17 370w

  “The announcement of a book, on Russia, by the versatile Russian
  scholar, who is also our leading authority on English legal and social
  history, may raise more expectation than it can well fulfil. For it is
  not a thorough treatise that the author of ‘Villainage in England’ has
  here attempted, but rather a few popular lectures aiming to give us a
  general outline of the great changes in the legal status of the
  Russian masses.”

       + =New Repub= 10:276 Mr 31 ‘17 380w


=VIVIAN, HERBERT.= Italy at war. il *$2.50 Dutton 940.91 17-21932

  “Mr Vivian is an English traveller who happened to be in France on the
  Italian border at the outbreak of the war.” (Boston Transcript) “His
  book is a collection of thumbnail sketches of the Italian people in
  relation to the war, not an account of the campaigns of the Italian
  army. Thus he relates experiences before Italy decided to throw in her
  lot with the Allies; gives brief descriptions of the King, General
  Cadorna, and prominent politicians; and devotes short sections to the
  special qualities of the various kinds of troops in the Italian army,
  and incidents in some of the battles. The illustrations enable the
  reader to appreciate the enormous difficulties overcome by the
  Italians in their mountain offensive.” (Ath)

         =Ath= p368 Jl ‘17 100w

  “The chapter entitled, ‘The preliminary war’ is an account of the work
  of the German spy system in Italy in the years of peace preceding the
  war. ... The author knows how to tell his story. Nothing worth while
  escapes him. His sense of humor is always in evidence when needed. He
  senses the significant things and describes them in an interesting
  way.” F. W. C.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 18 ‘17 670w

  “This is a different sort of book from Mr Alexander Powell’s volume of
  the same name and approximately the same date of publication. The
  Italian people’s attitude to the great issues of the day is presented
  with the insight and the accuracy of one familiar with the ways of the
  common folk and speaking their language. Noteworthy is the author’s
  emphasis upon the too little suspected perpetration of Austrian
  atrocities. Frightfulness he shows to be not exclusively a Prussian
  product.”

       + =Dial= 63:399 O 25 ‘17 190w

  “This volume of impressions has little in common with Mr Powell’s
  ‘Italy at war.’ Mr Vivian is noticeably lacking in the perspective of
  the war critic; but he is an earnest observer of the beauty and life
  of the new Italy. ... There is some justification for the
  uncomfortable feeling the author betrays of having chronicled too many
  trivialities.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:345 S 16 ‘17 600w

         =Outlook= 117:26 S 5 ‘17 70w

  “His work is quite different from that of such observers of the
  conflict as Mr Julius Price and Mr Sidney Low. It conveys less
  information on great matters, but it is more intimate in tone, and
  also more amusing and the records of conversations with people of no
  importance are really convincing and entertaining. The picture of the
  thrilling days immediately preceding Italy’s entrance into the war is
  especially graphic.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p278 Je 14 ‘17 850w


=VIZETELLY, FRANK HORACE.= Desk-book of twenty-five thousand words
frequently mispronounced. (Standard desk-book ser.) $1.60 Funk 421
17-10175

  “The title of this volume by the managing editor of the New standard
  dictionary ... is obviously taken from Phyfe’s earlier book in the
  same field. It is somewhat misleading, as the vocabulary includes many
  words that are not mispronounced, but differently pronounced. ... The
  publishers’ advertisement states that the book indicates the correct
  pronunciation of English words, foreign terms, Bible names, personal
  names (Vizetelly is included), geographical names, and proper names of
  all kinds current in literature, science and the arts. Words which are
  likely to prove stumblingblocks are also included. A unique and
  valuable feature is the appending in many cases of orthoepic and
  historical notes or of quotations illustrating usage.” (Springf’d
  Republican) “In an entertaining preface the doctor pays respect in
  truly Shavian style to the self-satisfied class, both here and abroad,
  who know ‘that the pronunciation they have is the best which exists.’”
  (Lit D)

  “A useful dictionary, presenting some original features. So far as our
  tests permit us to judge, the pronunciations indicated are, for the
  most part, such as would generally be accepted by English orthoepic
  authorities. ... In a deskbook, such as this, we doubt the usefulness
  of many of the references to obsolete forms of pronunciation adopted
  by Walker and other early lexicographers; and the employment of two
  keys to pronunciation is, we think, unnecessary and confusing. ... We
  disagree with some of the remarks in Dr Vizetelly’s introduction.”

       + =Ath= p306 Je ‘17 200w

       + =Ind= 90:353 My 19 ‘17 40w

  “A careful study of his work should do much toward the standardizing
  of modern English pronunciation.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1268 Ap 28 ‘17 520w

  “In the pronunciation, the preference of the leading dictionaries for
  nearly two hundred years are given. An indispensable addition to the
  slender collection of reference books which must be kept within easy
  reach. There is brief definition of hundreds of words but recently
  come into use in science and the arts. Dr Vizetelly has for many years
  been a foremost authority in English orthoepy.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:461 N 11 ‘17 460w

  “Examination of the work will quickly prove its great value. The
  introductory material might well be printed and cast broadside in
  pamphlet form as an aid to the correction of the habit of slovenly
  speech.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:331 S ‘17 90w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 My 17 ‘17 500w


=VOGT, PAUL LEROY.= Introduction to rural sociology. il *$2.50 Appleton
630 17-18829

  The author was formerly professor of rural economics and sociology in
  the Ohio state university, and is now superintendent of the department
  of rural work of the Methodist Episcopal church, and editor of “The
  church and country life.” Because over half of our rural population
  live in communities of less than 2,500, because the village is the
  “natural center of rural life,” because conditions in the country must
  be understood if the drift to the cities is to be adequately
  controlled, and because “the relation of the small community to the
  growth and ideals of the urban community makes an understanding of
  rural life and ideals imperative to the one responsible for leadership
  in urban life,” Mr Vogt has written this book. The field chosen covers
  rural life in the United States, and “particularly those conditions to
  be found in the great agricultural sections of the Central valley,”
  because in this area are to be found both the system of diversified
  agriculture and the intensive culture resulting from the increase of
  population. Six of the twenty-eight chapters are on the village, two
  on the rural church, two on rural health, two on farmers’
  organizations, and one on the county fair. Questions, references, and
  topics for research have been added at the close of each chapter.

  “We have here sociological materials, typical data, suggestively rich
  fields for further exploration—leads rather than actual veins;
  indications rather than fixed conclusions. Some of these data are
  original and thought-provoking as, for example, the chapters on
  Population movement and Rural morality. Some are not sufficient for
  generalization; notably, those dealing with the land question, tenancy
  and farmers’ organizations. The chapters on the village are a distinct
  contribution to sociological literature. The book is well written with
  a fresh, virile, optimistic pen. Because of its basis of fact, its
  general freedom from dogmatic statement, its constructive intent, its
  modest claims and its virility, this is the most valuable book dealing
  with rural sociology the reviewer has read.” A. E. Cance

       + =Am Econ R= 7:843 D ‘17 730w

  “A real contribution to the literature on rural life. The author
  places the emphasis on the fundamental problems. The chapter on ‘Rural
  morality’ is a valuable contribution because it is based upon the
  author’s research studies. His data refute the generalized statements
  that have been made by writers who are not hampered by facts. His
  studies show that the open country is still morally cleaner than the
  village or city.” E. L. Holton

       + =Am J Soc= 23:417 N ‘17 430w

  “Though based upon a thorough knowledge of rural life and problems,
  its chief value lies in its organization of material.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:117 Ja ‘18

  “Professor Vogt has attacked the problem from an angle not as yet
  popular in the study of the American farm. He has presented it as a
  series of relations and reactions influencing our entire national
  existence. It is important to the nation as well as to the farm that a
  high rural civilization be maintained, and that we understand the
  forces operative within it. Professor Vogt has set himself the task of
  meeting his subject in a purely scientific spirit. His appeal is
  almost defiantly to the brain alone.”

       + =Ind= 92:487 D 8 ‘17 310w

       + =Nation= 105:271 S 6 ‘17 520w

  “Furnishes an enlightening array of information upon the improvement
  of farming methods, the labor question, the tenancy question, health,
  morality, politics, education, religion, and the general social
  structure of rural communities.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:831 D ‘17 60w

  “The author has been at great pains to make his work as accurate and
  comprehensive as possible. In both respects he has succeeded
  admirably, and that, too, without becoming tedious. A feature of the
  book especially worthy of notice is the thorough discussion of the
  relation of the village to the life of the open country. The most
  important omission is the failure to discuss the eugenic problems of
  the rural population and to give more attention to the natural
  movements of population due to the varying birth rates and death rates
  in different groups and in different sections of the nation.” W. S.
  Thompson

     + — =Science= n s 46:24 Ja 4 ‘18 390w

  “A somewhat laborious study of conditions in the rural communities of
  the West. ... Its generalizations outweigh its store of information,
  though one should add that its conclusions are sound enough.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 100w

  “Professor Vogt has laid the foundation of a study of the village for
  which we have been waiting. ‘Rural sociology’ presents two methods of
  study of the material—analysis and idealization. Under the former
  method, for which the writer displays uncommon ability, is the
  treatment of the Land question, Means of communication, Farmers’ labor
  income, Health-physical, Health-mental, and the Church. ... The method
  of idealization is not so satisfactory. There are two final chapters,
  the first of which contains rare and new material on Rural morality
  and Social organization. ... The writer is a man with an open mind, a
  fine hand for details, a capacity of delicate weighing of evidence and
  the ability to present his conclusions without dogmatism and in
  inspiring completeness.” W. H. Wilson

   + + — =Survey= 38:533 S 15 ‘17 500w




                                   W


=WADDINGTON, MARY ALSOP (KING) (MRS WILLIAM HENRY WADDINGTON).= My war
diary. il *$1.50 (1½c) Scribner 940.91 17-23949

  Mme Waddington is the widow of a French statesman and ambassador, and
  author of “Letters of a diplomat’s wife” and other books on France and
  Italy. Her diary covers the period from August, 1914, to October,
  1916, and tells of her activities during the war, of the German
  occupation of her château at Mareuil, etc.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:56 N ‘17

  “Vast as will be the accumulation of war literature when the great
  struggle is over, Madame Waddington’s contribution will occupy by
  right a place of distinction, as affording illumination of a unique
  character. The book is necessarily personal, yet it is most
  attractively free from any touch of self-importance.”

       + =Cath World= 106:697 F ‘18 140w

         =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 70w

  “An entertaining account of how the French aristocracy have fared
  during the war. The big Frenchmen of the war, the great statesmen and
  generals, do not appear to have been on Madame Waddington’s calling
  list. These today are of first interest.”

     + — =Ind= 92:342 N 17 ‘17 130w

  “A volume which all friends of France as well as all who seek a
  knowledge of the inner facts of the war will turn to with eager
  interest.”

       + =Lit D= 55:52 D 8 ‘17 130w

  “Mme. Waddington’s vantage point of observation, so to speak, is
  unusual; and with the charm and sincerity of her literary style we
  have had opportunity ere this to become acquainted.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:573 D 23 ‘17 650w

  “Her style is at once simple, easy, vivacious. She outlines her
  portraits and paints her pictures with appealing directness. ...
  Particularly notable are her tributes to Ambassador Herrick.”

       + =Outlook= 117:143 S 26 ‘17 110w

  “Mme Waddington by reason of her position in diplomatic life is well
  able to form some enlightening opinions as to the real motives of
  French statesmen, but her book is singularly free from such
  revelations. ... She tells her story with simplicity, and occasionally
  repeats, but she is to be thanked for not dwelling on the depressing
  side of events. ... Nothing especially new or significant of French
  life and thought is contributed by the book.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 17 ‘17 320w


=WADDINGTON, SAMUEL.= Some views respecting a future life. *$1.25 (6½c)
Lane 218 17-17191

  “In this comely book, which is at once a personal statement and an
  anthology of what has been said on the question of immortality by
  sages and others, ancient and modern, Mr Waddington has written his
  ‘Religio poetæ.’ His own position, defined already in many sonnets and
  other poems, is the reasoned one of the agnostic.” (Ath) “The greater
  part of the book is devoted to a survey of what has been written upon
  the subject by modern philosophers, poets, and scientists. Shelley,
  Swinburne, Nordau, Haeckel, Huxley, Mill, Darwin, Spencer, Rossetti,
  Sir Oliver Lodge, F. W. H. Myers, Clough, Emerson are only a few of
  the many from whom he quotes or to whose beliefs he refers.” (N Y
  Times)

         =Ath= p246 My ‘17 260w

         =Ind= 91:514 S 29 ‘17 70w

       + =N Y Times= 22:305 Ag 19 ‘17 580w

  Reviewed by Bishop Frodsham

         =Sat R= 123:370 Ap 21 ‘17 210w


=WADSLEY, OLIVE.= Conquest. il *$1.40 (1½c) Dodd A17-1640

  The hero of the story is a little gamin from Paris who begins his
  conquest of London at the age of ten. He passes from one odd job to
  another until he is taken on as a helper in a gymnasium. This chance
  occupation is the making of Bill Achat. He learns to reverence bodily
  perfection, becomes a boxer and finally a prize fighter, white
  champion of the world. He is introduced into London society, and the
  latter portions of the book are taken up with his love for Alexa
  Castlemayne. She is older than he and of a different social world, but
  they find their happiness in one another.

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:341 N ‘17 60w

  “There are good bits of characterization in ‘Conquest,’ and an
  authentic air of sophistication and interest regarding prize-fights
  and sporting-events surprising in the work of a woman author—even a
  British one.”

       + =Dial= 63:597 D 6 ‘17 90w

  “There is keen charm in the portions that show Bill fighting and lying
  for a roll, and kissing a maternal demi-mondaine for a franc. ... It
  is regrettable that Miss Wadsley does not keep to this pitch
  throughout, instead of falling into commonplace.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:388 O 7 ‘17 300w


=WADSLEY, OLIVE.= Possession. il *$1.35 (1c) Dodd 17-6113

  An unusual friendship existed between the little girl of eight and the
  boy of eighteen. Both were friendless in London. Valérie’s father had
  deserted her unceremoniously. Blaise was a stranger, looking for work.
  So they adopted one another. This relationship lasted up to the time
  Val was seventeen. Then Blaise woke up and found that she was
  grown-up, that she was very beautiful, and that he loved her. For his
  own sake as well as her own, he sent her away to Paris. The separation
  proved disastrous, for Val too began to realize that she was grown-up.
  She meets another man, and marries him. The romance is short-lived and
  she turns back to Blaise for protection, but since she fails to tell
  him the truth, a strained situation results.

  “It is rather a headlong tale; that is, told with enough swiftness and
  enough high coloring to make it seem, in a day of comparatively
  leisurely and detailed novel-writing, an uncommonly near approach to
  the good old ‘intense love-story.’ Along the way, Miss Wadsley has
  given the novel certain modulations and graciousnesses that will serve
  to redeem it, at least in part, for her more discriminating and
  experienced readers.” F. I.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 F 21 ‘17 600w

  “The earlier part of the book marks its writer as one of more than
  average talent and imagination. ... The novel remains, in spite of
  expectations unfulfilled, more than relatively good.”

     + — =Dial= 62:147 F 22 ‘17 250w

  “While reading ‘Possession,’ we forget who or what we are, how or when
  the book is written, and live wholly in the life of Valérie Sarton.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:89 Mr 11 ‘17 350w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 1 ‘17 350w


=WÄGNER, WILHELM.= Asgard and the gods; adapted by M. W. Macdowall; and
ed. by W. S. W. Anson. il *$2 Dutton 293

  “A complete English account of the religious beliefs and superstitions
  of the old Northmen, myths and stories of the gods, of the creation of
  the world, of Odin the father of the gods, of the Ases, the Golden
  age, and on through all the splendid legends to Ragnarok, the
  ‘twilight of the gods.’” (R of Rs) This volume is a reprint of an
  edition first published in 1880 and again in 1882. There is an
  introduction which deals with what is known of the history of these
  legends.

       + =Dial= 64:114 Ja 31 ‘18 200w

         =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 30w

  “The digest of Dr Wägner’s original work is so excellent that for the
  new generation there is probably nothing better.”

       + =Lit D= 55:41 N 3 ‘17 200w

       + =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 50w

         =R of Rs= 56:553 N ‘17 90w


=WALDO, FULLERTON LEONARD.=[2] Good housing that pays. il $1 (5c) Harper
press, 1012 Chancellor st., Philadelphia 331.8 17-28206

  A study of the work of the Octavia Hill association of Philadelphia,
  from 1896 to 1917. The foreword says, “The pages that follow describe
  the effort of a thoughtful group of Philadelphians to provide cleanly
  homes and a healthy environment for families in modest circumstances
  or in self-respecting poverty. This effort has outgrown the stage of
  experiment, but it never will deny new light nor wholly abandon,
  however it may adapt, the ideals that are Octavia Hill’s own spiritual
  legacy.” A sketch of the life and work of Octavia Hill constitutes
  chapter 1. There are numerous pictures and plans. The by-laws of the
  association and various tables are given in an appendix, with the
  index following. “The story of the Octavia Hill association of
  Philadelphia is almost a history of the housing movement in that city,
  and shows the excellent work of women in this field.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:152 F ‘18

  “Live and interesting, with practical, frank detail on both the
  business and the human side, which will make the book of value to
  other workers.” E. W. Dinwiddie

       + =Survey= 39:326 D 15 ‘17 430w


=WALKER, HENRY FRANCIS BELL.= Doctor’s diary in Damaraland. il *$2.10
(4c) Longmans 940.91 (Eng ed 17-28629)

  “The author of this book volunteered as a medical officer in General
  Botha’s force which, by its dashing strategy and its great physical
  endurance, conquered German South-west Africa between March and July,
  1915. He does not give a formal history of the campaign, but describes
  his own experiences in the rear of the army, with an occasional
  illuminating note on the course of the fighting.”—Spec

         =Dial= 64:81 Ja 17 ‘18 250w

  “All who wish to know the realities of war should read his very
  readable book. ... He has a good word for the Germans wherever it is
  deserved; and, generally, he extenuates nothing, makes no complaint,
  and sets down naught in malice. He deals only with what came under his
  own view, the grand tour of his own ambulance, not attempting to
  describe military movements or battles. His narrative is relieved by
  excellent descriptive touches, which make the God-forsaken country
  very real.”

       + =Nation= 105:348 S 27 ‘17 770w

       + =N Y Times= 22:357 S 23 ‘17 430w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:827 D ‘17 60w

  “Dr Walker is eminently observant and has a keen eye for military
  tactics as well as natural history and geology. He has provided a
  detailed map of one attack, but a larger one covering the range of
  country he went over would have been a useful addition to his
  book. ... The book is well printed and has a few good illustrations,
  but it ought to have had an index as well.”

     + — =Sat R= 124:110 Ag 11 ‘17 900w

         =Spec= 118:616 Je 2 ‘17 180w

  “He is coldly fair to the Germans, giving instances of their cruelty,
  but allowing them whatever credit may be their due for establishing
  well-planned and well-organized towns in places where no one would
  want to live.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p207 My 3 ‘17 950w


=WALKER, STUART.= Portmanteau plays. il *$1.50 Stewart & Kidd 812
17-13266

  Stuart Walker has been actor, stage manager and general director for
  Belasco. In 1914, he conceived the idea of the Portmanteau theater
  which has a small stage, simple scenery, and unique lighting effects.
  The present volume includes four of the plays given at this theater:
  The trimplet; Nevertheless; The medicine show; The six who pass while
  the lentils boil. There is a forty page introduction by Edward Hale
  Bierstadt, and an appendix giving “The repertory of the Portmanteau
  theater in the order of production.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:16 O ‘17

  “The little plays lack the beauty in strangeness of Lord Dunsany’s
  contributions to the Portmanteau répertoire but they are of distinct
  interest as a new art form based on a naïve convention.”

       + =Cleveland= p105 S ‘17 80w

  “This book is more than a collection of highly diverting little plays.
  It is the record of an astonishing experiment in the American
  theatre.” H. K. M.

       + =New Repub= 13:222 D 22 ‘17 1000w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:86 Je ‘17

  “Of the four plays, ‘Six who pass while the lentils boil’ is
  undoubtedly the most successful from both a literary and a dramatic
  point of view.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:444 O ‘17 300w

  “Mr Walker’s plays make very pleasant reading, but they do not portend
  any romantic renaissance. ... The novel settings that Mr Walker has
  devised for his charming playlets have probably much more to do with
  his success than any real desire on the part of the public for poetry
  and fantasy on the stage.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Jl 1 ‘17 460w


=WALLACE, DAVID DUNCAN.= Government of England; national, local, and
imperial. *$2 (2½c) Putnam 342.4 17-25776

  The author is professor of history and economics in Wofford college.
  He states that his book is intended for the general reader desiring “a
  brief, untechnical account of the British government” and for college
  classes where the time “is too limited for an extended treatment of so
  large a subject.” Prof. Wallace has attempted “to describe the English
  government as it is without distracting the reader with a long account
  of how it came to be what it is.” (Preface) Book 1 deals with The
  central government; book 2 with The local government; book 3 with The
  empire and colonies; book 4 with Social and political characteristics.
  The author has constantly “kept in mind the resemblances and contrasts
  between the government of England and that of our own country.”
  (Preface) “In the chapter on ‘Lessons England can teach us,’ the
  author dwells upon the greater flexibility of the English
  constitutional system. ... Other lessons concern the budget system,
  popular regard for law, and a civil service test in character and
  ability in addition to the applicant’s ‘immediate preparation.’”
  (Bookm) There is a reading-list of two pages and a table (tipped in
  before the index) to aid in understanding the court system.

  “The chapter on ‘Aristocracy and democracy’ clarifies a subject rather
  indistinct to Americans who have not observed English society at close
  range. ... In the hands of instructors capable of supplementing it
  with an additional fund of historical illustration, this capitally
  written treatise should serve as an attractive text for college and
  university classes.” L. E. Robinson

       + =Bookm= 46:270 N ‘17 370w

  “He certainly does not misinterpret our history, when he declares that
  the highest intellectual effort in the United States has been
  consumed, not in proving that measures are good or bad, but that they
  are constitutional or unconstitutional. He makes a strong argument for
  a closer coöperation of the legislative and executive departments.” F.
  B. N.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 O 27 ‘17 670w


=WALLACE, DILLON.= Arctic stowaways. il *$1.25 (2c) McClurg 17-29730

  Alfred Knowles and his friend Harry Metford were in danger of arrest
  for running a man down while speeding their automobile. Alfred had at
  first insisted that they turn about and take their medicine, but had
  weakly yielded to Harry’s desire for escape. So it was that they
  happened to take temporary refuge on board a schooner, to be carried
  out to sea. The vessel is a whaler, one of the last of her line, and
  the boys’ pleading and threats and offers of payment are of no avail.
  The boat is bound for the Arctic, and they must go with her, working
  their passage. Their experiences are not unlike those of Harvey
  Cheyne, of “Captains courageous,” and they learn the same lesson. The
  biggest of their adventures comes when they are cast adrift on the
  ice, to fend for themselves along a barren coast.

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 150w


=WALLACE, EDGAR.= Kate plus 10. il *$1.35 (3½c) Small 17-23650

  The author of “The clue of the twisted candle” has here given us
  another detective story. It moves around the great strokes planned by
  Kate Westhanger, the brains of the criminal gang in Amberscombe
  Gardens—a locality known to the London police as “Crime street”—and
  the efforts made by Michael Pretherston, the Scotland Yard detective,
  to outwit her. Kate had inherited power of strategy and also a
  tendency to crime. She had been trained by her uncle to be a thief on
  a great scale. Michael, who had great ability and a very pretty wit of
  his own, was filling the years in which he awaited his succession to
  the peerage in ways in which he could use his natural talents. Both
  were in the game for the excitement of it. How Kate used her wit,
  charm, and beauty and how Michael faced her at every turn; what the
  great coup was and how it ended; with other matters which pertain to
  life in English society furnish two hours of entertaining reading.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:63 N ‘17

  “An unusual combination of light humour and thrilling mystery.” H. W.
  Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:342 N ‘17 10w

         =Cleveland= p128 N ‘17 60w


=WALLACE, EDNA KINGSLEY.= Feelings and things; verses of childhood. *$1
Dutton 811 16-24229

  “One feels in reading these poems that Miss Wallace is writing from
  within out; she is not portraying childhood as she sees or remembers
  it, but interpreting it as she still feels it. In her choice of
  subjects and language, she is always well within the mood and
  psychology of her subject. In this slender book are to be found the
  vaguely defined imaginings, the sudden sharp impressions, the bubbling
  excitement and joyousness of childhood. Even the rhythm of the lines
  has the hop-skip-and-jump gaiety, the pause of perplexed wonder, and
  the sudden, ecstatic crescendo of discovery.”—Dial

  “They are slightly reminiscent of Stevenson and will be even more
  appreciated by grownups than by the children themselves.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:408 Je ‘17

  “These verses are distinctive and individual, and because of their
  authenticity and lyrical quality must take a high place in the
  literature of childhood.”

       + =Dial= 62:110 F 8 ‘17 150w

     + — =NY Times= 22:401 O 14 ‘17 90w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 120w


=WALLACE, WILLIAM KAY.= Greater Italy [1858-1916]. *$2.50 (3c) Scribner
945 17-13590

  “I would attempt to trace in this volume the rise of the kingdom of
  Italy among nations, with more particular emphasis on the part played
  by the people of Italy in the affairs of the world during the past
  three decades. ... I have sought to lay particular stress on the
  relations of Italy with the Central powers, to trace the course of
  Italian policy in its dealings with Vienna and Berlin, and to show how
  the ‘mariage forcé’ of Rome and Vienna, brought about by the
  arbitrariness of Berlin, could not fail to end in disaster.” (Preface)
  Contents: The achievement of unity; Formative forces; The Triple
  alliance; The period of retrenchment; The dictatorship of Giolitti;
  The Libyan war; Economic development; The Vatican and the Quirinal;
  Italy and Germany; The problem of the Adriatic; The days of
  neutrality; Italy at war. The author writes of the war from personal
  observation. The book is provided with three maps.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:21 O ‘17

         =Ath= p475 S ‘17 130w

  “A businesslike and straightforward book, which is not, strictly
  speaking, a history, but a series of studies on the rise of a united
  Italy and on an important aspect of Balkan diplomacy. The title of the
  book hardly describes its contents. The narration of the peaceful
  penetration of Italy by Germany is most remarkable reading, and it
  differs from some other recent descriptions of the process in general
  by its restraint and balance. The story is perhaps more impressive on
  that account.”

     + — =Ath= p511 O ‘17 650w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 250w

  “Mr Wallace portrays the Italy of politics, of diplomacy, of war, of
  realism. His task has been attempted before, with much success by King
  and Okey and by Underwood. But the developments of the past two years
  afford excellent opportunity to paint the picture afresh and on a
  larger canvas. Mr Wallace has spent some time with the troops on the
  various Italian fronts, and he describes in lucid and restrained
  manner the difficulties and triumphs of the operations against the
  Austrians. His book is well written, although there is an occasional
  inexact statement.”

     + — =Dial= 63:30 Ja 28 ‘17 430w

  “The book contains a map of what the author conceives to be Italy’s
  projected sphere of influence in Asia Minor and in Austria.”

       + =Ind= 92:60 O 6 ‘17 80w

       + =N Y Times= 22:266 Jl 15 ‘17 280w

         =Outlook= 116:233 Je 6 ‘17 140w

  “The pages that deal with the great problem which is Italy’s problem
  alone, the quarrel between the Vatican and the Quirinal, are full of
  valuable information. And none of the recent books on the present war
  gives a more useful description of the counter-currents of Italy’s
  growing national aspirations, Austria’s imperialistic inclinations,
  and the Pan-Slav movement, which combined to keep the Balkan region at
  a fever-heat of tension for many years and culminated in the present
  catastrophe.” G. I. Colbron

       + =Pub W= 91:1324 Ap 21 ‘17 730w

  “It is not a profound work; it adds nothing to the equipment of the
  advanced student. But it tells simply and clearly the story of Italy’s
  rise through immense difficulties to real independence, and shows how
  she has come within sight of realizing the greatest of her
  ambitions—the rescue of millions of her people in the Trentino and the
  Adriatic provinces from the Austrian oppressor. Mr Wallace is an
  American who loves Italy.”

       + =Spec= 119:245 S 8 ‘17 1500w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 11 ‘17 550w

  “Mr Wallace has thrown together a certain number of documents and has
  eked them out with impressions rapidly gleaned and facts carelessly
  ascertained. He has made a volume of some 300 pages, but he has not
  written a book. His work lacks perspective and cohesion, and is
  sometimes positively misleading. He lacks the sense of style that
  distinguishes many American war correspondents, to say nothing of the
  best American writers. It is only in dealing with the present aspects
  of Italian policy and Italy’s war aims that Mr Wallace’s work becomes
  tolerably accurate. His last three chapters are fair journalism.”

       — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p350 Jl 26 ‘17 1200w


=WALLER, EDITH.= English-Italian phrase book for social workers. pa 75c
Edith Waller, Morristown, N.J. 458 16-14779

  “This book is intended to help the American social worker, teacher,
  physician or nurse, who in daily work find need for a small store of
  colloquial Italian.”—Educ R

  “The book is exceedingly well done and may be highly commended to
  those who are at work in these fields.”

       + =Educ R= 53:199 F ‘17 70w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:152 O ‘16

  “Designed to furnish a small store of colloquial Italian, it contains
  phrases on buying and preparing food, caring for the sick and infants,
  registering pupils and conducting a class. Includes a vocabulary and
  the essentials of the Italian grammar.”

         =Pittsburgh= 22:536 Je ‘17 40w


=WALLING, WILLIAM ENGLISH.= Russia’s message: the people against the
czar. il *$1.50 (3c) Knopf 947 17-13587

  This work, first published by Doubleday, Page & Co., in 1908 and
  listed in the Digest at that time, is now brought out in a new and
  cheaper edition by Alfred A. Knopf. To the new edition Mr Walling has
  added an introduction, written at some time during the progress of the
  present war but before the recent revolution. In this introduction Mr
  Walling discusses the attitude of England, France, and Germany toward
  Russian autocracy.

  “Of interest now as showing the foundation of the great democratic
  movement.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:143 Ja ‘18

  “Reissued with some unaccountable omissions and the complete
  disappearance of the index, as well as of a number of illustrations.
  But in any form, Mr Walling’s book commands attention.” L: S.
  Friedland

       + =Dial= 62:429 My 17 ‘17 820w

       + =Ind= 91:30 Jl 7 ‘17 110w

  “There are a permanent value and a timeliness in Mr Walling’s book
  that make its republication in the climax of the events he
  foreshadowed worth noting. The student of recent events in Russia will
  find the news dispatches strikingly illuminated by Mr Walling’s
  descriptions.”

       + =Lit D= 55:40 O 13 ‘17 280w

  “Of particular interest is Mr Walling’s account of the progress of the
  waking up of the peasant population a few years ago, and its progress
  in enlightenment.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:159 Ap 22 ‘17 570w

  “It is in part because Mr Walling so thoroughly and convincingly
  analyzes the policy and motives of czardom that his book is not only
  informing, but as timely as possible. ... Accurately and in detail, Mr
  Walling lays bare an economic system that, but for the clearness and
  appositeness of the evidence he submits, would seem incredible. ...
  His book is thorough and authoritative—a study of more than transitory
  value—but also a book of the hour admirably adapted to enlighten and
  influence American opinion.”

       + =No Am= 205:951 Je ‘17 900w

  “Written ten years ago after the author had passed the greater part of
  two years in close contact with Russian government officials, as well
  as with the leaders of revolutionary organizations after the temporary
  failure of their uprising in 1905.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:101 Jl ‘17 100w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 15 ‘17 420w


=WALLING, WILLIAM ENGLISH, and LAIDLER, HARRY WELLINGTON=, eds. State
socialism pro and con. *$2 (1c) Holt 335.6 17-17731

  This book on state socialism or collectivism, which its editors, both
  members of the Intercollegiate Socialist society, define as “the
  policy of extending the economic functions of the state,” is in no
  sense a brief for state socialism, but “primarily a source book of
  authoritative selections either written by experts or selected by
  experts from official reports.” The editors have not tried to give
  arguments, except in the introduction, but simply to provide the
  reader with the most important data on which to base a conclusion. The
  introduction takes up the relation of state socialism to war
  socialism, to the military state, to related government policies, to
  democracy, socialism, and nationalism. The excerpts are arranged under
  the headings: Finance; Agriculture and the conservation of natural
  resources; Transportation and communication; Commerce, industry and
  mining; Collectivism and the individual (as citizen, consumer,
  producer and taxpayer). A good deal of space, though not the larger
  part, is given to the United States. Chapter twenty-nine, on
  “Municipal ownership,” is by Evans Clark.

  “An interesting exhibit of the world-wide tendency toward broadening
  the functions of government.” V: E. Helleberg

       + =Am J Soc= 23:550 Ja ‘18 250w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:8 O ‘17

  “The con side does not seem to have received quite as much publicity
  as the pro side. ... For the man who deplores, no less than for the
  man who welcomes, this trend [toward state socialism] the volume will
  be found extremely serviceable. In fact, no other book, no other half
  dozen books, contain as much information concerning the economic or
  collectivistic functions of modern states.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:536 Ja ‘18 550w

  “Within the self-imposed limits of their work the editors have
  succeeded in presenting a unique and adequate record of the
  world-advance of collectivism. A chapter on ‘Municipal ownership’
  surveys that field briefly, effectively, and with consistent
  impersonality. ‘State socialism pro and con’ is not recommended for
  hammock hours. But as a handy reference volume for the serious-minded
  it will save many days of searching through technical libraries for
  data on collectivism.” D. R. Richberg

       + =Dial= 63:111 Ag 16 ‘17 600w

  “An authoritative work of reference.”

       + =Ind= 92:487 D 8 ‘17 100w

  “One great value of the present survey by Walling and Laidler is that
  it fixes definitely accomplishments up to the period of the war, and
  will thus retain its place as an authoritative and important handbook.
  Its arrangement is excellent, and no book could be easier for quick
  consultation. The chapter on Municipal socialism by Evans Clark is an
  unusually capable piece of work.” Frank Macdonald

       + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 19 ‘17 600w

  “The book is a storehouse of material which in itself supplies the
  argument which the editors refrain from making. They are entitled to
  make their own selections, and it is no grievance that they are rather
  pro than con. Nevertheless, they have done their work so well that it
  would be reassuring to have the other side presented with equal
  efficiency.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:263 Jl 15 ‘17 530w

         =Outlook= 116:305 Je 20 ‘17 40w

         =R of Rs= 56:326 S ‘17 170w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 16 ‘17 850w


=WALPOLE, HUGH.= Green mirror; a quiet story. *$1.50 Doran 17-30042

  The second volume of the trilogy of which “The Duchess of Wrexe” was
  the first. The novel is also related to “The dark forest,” since Henry
  Trenchard, the Englishman of that story, appears here, twelve years
  earlier, as a boy. “In the members of the Trenchard family Mr Walpole
  has embodied all of those distinctively British characteristics that
  have always exasperated the rest of the world. ... Mrs Trenchard is a
  personified British matron, inflexible, dominant, a bit stupid,
  fiercely maternal, and, altogether, a rather terrible sort of
  person. ... But the British matron meets with her Waterloo in this new
  novel in which she makes a ruthless, carefully worked out, determined
  effort to force submission to her purpose on the part of all her
  family. The breath of another dawn has already begun to blow. ... Then
  into the circle comes Philip Mark, a young Englishman who has lived
  for some years in Russia, whose embryonic imagination has been
  developed in that country, who has ideas and feelings and sentiments
  that are disconcertingly un-English, that disturbingly suggest a
  region where Trenchards are not known. He is resented, considered with
  disapproval and dislike. But he and the eldest daughter of the family
  fall in love with each other and the drama of the tale grows out of
  the determination of Mrs Trenchard that he shall not become one of
  them.” (N Y Times)

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:134 Ja ‘18

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:598 Ja ‘18 950w

  “What Mr Walpole does in ‘The green mirror,’ as a novelist he does
  well. That is, he tells a good story so that its scenes, its action
  and its people seem actually to exist. But what he does in ‘The green
  mirror’ as a propagandist, he does not well at all, for his
  presentation of the case against family solidarity seems merely to be
  the typical argument of the social revolutionist.” E. F. E.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p8 N 21 ‘17 1200w

  “What Mr Walpole has so fully and sensitively absorbed in a case that
  is perfect of its kind remains essentially undisturbed by storm and
  wreck on the surface. The character, the exigencies, of the great
  compromise of the family are too permanent to be called unfashionable
  because of the war. ... It is a fine novel, grappling bravely with the
  great ironies of motherlove.” F. H.

     + — =New Repub= 13:154 D 8 ‘17 1650w

  “Without any doubt, when Mr Walpole wrote this novel in those dead
  years before the war he was engaged, quite consciously to himself, in
  the task of flaying, gently and tenderly and lovingly, it is true, but
  still flaying with satire the heart and soul of his native land. And
  he has done the task with such neatness and dexterity and
  completeness, and also with such tenderness, that the work itself
  fills the reader with interest and its artistic performance with
  satisfaction.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:474 N 18 ‘17 1350w

  “Distinctly it belongs to the class of major English fiction; it is a
  story built, as one may say, to last, not to be read and easily
  forgotten.”

       + =Outlook= 117:574 D 5 ‘17 210w


=WALSH, JOHN.= Mass and vestments of the Catholic church; liturgical,
doctrinal, historical and archeological. il *$1.75 Benziger 265

  “Arranged catechetically, this volume is intended to be a help to the
  busy clergy, laity, and converts to the Catholic church. The author
  has given a clear explanation of the different parts of the mass, the
  language, usage, and elements used in its celebration, and the eastern
  and western rites. A full description of the altar, linens, sacred
  vessels, vestments, and number and kind of lights used at the various
  services is also given.”—Boston Transcript

  “The laity will find much useful information in very simple and brief
  form.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 27 ‘16 130w

  “Must be regarded as the best among popular works of reference on the
  mass.”

       + =Cath World= 104:695 F ‘17 180w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:438 My ‘17

  “Told in simple English.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 26 ‘17 100w


=WALTERS, HENRY BEAUCHAMP=, ed. Classical dictionary of Greek and Roman
antiquities, biography, geography, and mythology. il *$6.50 Putnam 913.3
17-4478

  “Mr Walters has executed a ‘tour de force’ in compressing within the
  limits of a handy volume a summary of the information usually sought
  in four dictionaries of two volumes each.” (The Times [London] Lit
  Sup) “The merit of Mr Walters’s compendium is that it combines with
  Lemprière’s work on proper names the information contained in Dr
  Smith’s ‘Dictionary of antiquities.’ ... The book uses material
  derived from the ‘Companions to Greek and Latin studies,’ and has
  profited by the researches of many predecessors, including those
  indefatigable Germans who make no account of time or labour when they
  sit down to exhaust a subject.” (Sat R)

  “It does not of course compete with fuller works of reference, and
  will not satisfy anyone who desires full information on any of its
  subjects. And yet it will admirably serve the purpose which it
  proposes to serve, and will help the student over the ordinary
  antiquarian difficulties which constantly present themselves in the
  reading of any Greek or Latin author. The volume is of a convenient
  size for frequent and familiar use, is on excellent paper, is well
  printed and illustrated.” F. J. Miller

       + =Class J= 63:610 Je ‘17 300w

  “Fairly up to date, with the antiquities, biography, geography, and
  mythology all in one handy volume. In view of the wide scope of the
  work, covering, as it does, the same field as the colossal
  Pauly-Wissowa or the combined five volumes of Sir William Smith’s
  time-honored dictionaries, it is necessarily brief. But the concise
  articles are, in the main, packed with information upon the essential
  facts needed by the young student. And the serviceability of the book
  is greatly enhanced by the wealth of illustrative material selected
  with the judgment and taste that we might expect from the editor, who
  is also assistant-keeper of Greek and Roman antiquities in the British
  museum.” Walter Miller

   + + — =Class Philol= 12:311 Jl ‘17 250w

  “Quantities are marked in various words, and the book is clearly not
  for the professed scholar. It is for ‘the upper forms of public
  schools,’ also for classical students at the universities. The latter,
  we should have thought, would mostly be beyond it. ... With its
  sensible single alphabet in the Latin order and its ample indexes, the
  book is over 1,100 pages and a weighty affair, which it would have
  been unwise to increase.”

       + =Sat R= 122:sup6 O 14 ‘16 650w

  “It is very much more discreet, as well as more scholarly, than
  Lemprière, dear to our fathers and grandfathers; it contains a great
  deal more information than Dr Smith’s familiar work which we used to
  read at school.”

       + =Spec= 117:556 N 4 ‘16 110w

  “These criticisms are offered in the hope that when the book reaches,
  as no doubt it will, a second edition, some necessary revision may
  take place. Of its general usefulness there can be no question.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p520 N 2 ‘16 700w


=WALTHER, ANNA HILDA LOUISE.= Pilgrimage with a milliner’s needle. il
*$1.50 (3½c) Stokes 17-25140

  This book is the personal diary of a young Danish girl, “from
  childhood up to fairly mature age, beginning in Copenhagen and ending
  in New York city.” (Boston Transcript) She was apprenticed to the
  millinery business, and as soon as she had learned her trade, started
  out to ply it in different countries, wandering thru Europe, South
  Africa and the United States. Her diary tells of more than one love
  affair and of her conversion to Christian science. There is a glowing
  introduction by Richard Le Gallienne.

  “Her narrative is personal and naively frank in giving emotional
  details of her own life. It is more readable as autobiography than as
  travel.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:126 Ja ‘18

  “The interest aroused by Richard Le Gallienne’s highly appreciating
  foreword flags in places as the narrative proceeds. ... The finale is
  startingly tame and commonplace.”

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 O 10 ‘17 280w

       + =Dial= 63:466 N 8 ‘17 50w

       + =Ind= 93:241 F 9 ‘18 40w

  “A series of vivid pictures of places and people. Underlying it all is
  a charming personal narrative.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:551 N ‘17 70w


War and the spirit of youth. $1 Atlantic monthly 940.91 17-24228

  “Three papers of mystical tendency which recently appeared in the
  Atlantic Monthly have been published in one volume entitled ‘The war
  and the spirit of youth,’ by Maurice Barrès, Anne C. E. Allinson and
  Sir Francis Younghusband. The papers are by a Frenchman, an Englishman
  and an American, and reveal in all three cases a spiritual
  temperament. In the first one, ‘Young soldiers of France,’ M. Barrès
  gives excerpts from letters written by certain young French soldiers
  at the front. ... The two other papers are philosophical discussions
  of the spiritual motives behind the present war.”—Springf’d Republican

         =A L A Bkl= 14:51 N ‘17

  “M. Barrès tactfully allows the letters of young French soldiers to
  reveal of themselves the permanent spiritual values which, so it
  seemed to these boys, made their sacrifices just. ... It is only on
  reading the conventional and weak deistic apologia of Sir Francis
  Younghusband that the question of the value of such waste of human
  happiness for mechanical political ends rises again with unescapable
  directness.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:sup18 N 17 ‘17 150w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 12 ‘17 150w


=WARD, SIR ADOLPHUS WILLIAM.= Germany, 1815-1890. (Cambridge historical
ser.) 3v v 1 *$3 Putnam 943.07 (16-17397)

  =v 1= 1815-1852.

  “Dr Ward has long been known as foremost among English scholars in the
  study of modern German history, and he reckons among the chief
  pleasures of life ‘the promotion of a better understanding between two
  nations now estranged from each other for many a long day.’ ... He is
  dealing with the Germany that emerged from the rough handling of
  Napoleon, after the Holy Roman empire had finally passed off the
  stage, and the German confederation had begun its uneasy
  existence. ... This period was, as Dr Ward says, a half-century of
  struggle and humiliation, and the first reflection that follows on the
  study of action that failed, and reaction that failed equally, is that
  Bismarck must have been a very great man to build up out of this chaos
  the powerful nation we know to our cost to-day.” (Sat R) Volume 1,
  covering the period from 1815 to 1852, will be followed by a second
  volume carrying the history to 1890.

  “No one would question Dr Ward’s high qualifications, for few living
  English writers have given evidence of more versatile and exact
  scholarship than the Master of Peterhouse. This volume on Germany from
  1815 to 1852 is, however, a grievous disappointment. It is one of the
  most jejune handbooks ever produced by English writers, who furnish no
  mean competition in such compilations. The style is prolix and
  involved, loaded with details and unimportant names, broken by
  parentheses and totally unrelieved by emphasis. Inclusion by mere
  enumeration replaces discrimination and selection. ... The
  bibliography will be useful but it is not above criticism.” G. S. Ford

     – + =Am Hist R= 22:706 Ap ‘17 400w

  “Does not replace other histories but is authoritative, suggestive,
  and impartial.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:262 Mr ‘17

  “The author has an exceptional command of foreign sources, as his
  bibliography shows, and studies with care the thought and policy and
  the various movements which influenced the making of modern Germany.”

       + =Ath= p291 Je ‘16 50w

       + =Dial= 62:317 Ap 5 ‘17 150w

  “Sir Adolphus Ward’s knowledge of his subject is enormous and his
  equity and discrimination are no less remarkable than his knowledge.
  All personages of all parties receive a full measure of
  indulgence. ... In the fullness of his own knowledge of German affairs
  the author has perhaps forgotten how meagre is the knowledge of most
  educated Englishmen.” F. C. M.

       + =Eng Hist R= 21:672 O ‘16 350w

  “Few English writers are so well qualified to speak on German
  political affairs as the author of the present volume, and the
  immediate result is a book which displays profound learning and a
  thorough mastery of the subject. ... But it is a book for students
  only and primarily, even for students a book of reference. ... The
  book concludes with an excellent bibliography, a good index, and a map
  of the German confederation.”

       + =Nation= 104:165 F 8 ‘17 150w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:129 F ‘17

  “This book is at least a clear proof that the English academic mind
  can remain calm and impartial in the midst of war. ... His book is of
  very great value as a compressed and exact record; it repays careful
  study, and a second reading gives greater pleasure than the first.”

       + =Sat R= 123:112 F 3 ‘17 900w

  “No such compact mass of information about the German states between
  1815 and 1852 as is contained in this book has previously appeared in
  English. The book is not for the most part easy reading. But as a book
  for consultation and reference as to facts we know of no other like
  this. ... Sir Adolphus Ward writes on this question [Denmark]—which we
  take only as an illustration—as on others, in what may be called a
  pre-war spirit. That is no defect in an historian, for we might have
  been more inclined to suspect the accuracy of his presentment of facts
  if he ever showed a trace of passion or partisanship. But in this
  volume there is absolutely none.”

       + =Spec= 117:46 Jl 8 ‘16 1550w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p263 Je 1 ‘16 40w

  “We rise from reading the book with the impression that the author has
  been somewhat overwhelmed by the very wealth of his learning. To tell
  truth, this book would have gained in force and actuality, even if a
  certain impartiality had been sacrificed, had it been written frankly
  from an English point of view as an honest criticism from outside of
  the tendencies underlying the development of the German idea.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p302 Je 29 ‘16 1850w


=WARD, CHARLES HENSHAW.= What is English? *$1 Scott 808 17-4013

  The author calls this “a book of strategy for English teachers.” As a
  teacher of English in a boys’ preparatory school, he is concerned with
  the problems of secondary education, and he takes the stand that the
  first demand on English teachers is that they teach the essentials of
  good English, putting accuracy in detail before attempts at literary
  grace. He commends the methods described in Brown’s “How the French
  boy learns to write.” Among the chapters are: What English is;
  Intensive spelling; What grammar is all about; Teaching grammar; What
  is a comma? Present usage in pointing; Themes; Reading.

  “To punctuation he gives almost as much space as to the other two
  subjects combined. Surely this is disproportionate. The book
  represents a reaction, in the main wholesome, against the notion that
  the whole duty of a high-school English teacher is to cultivate
  ‘insight into beauty’ or to teach his pupils to write clever short
  stories. But the reaction (in theory, at least) may easily go too
  far.”

     + — =Nation= 106:122 Ja 31 ‘18 300w

         =Pratt= p18 O ‘17 10w

  “In style and method Mr Ward’s book is itself an excellent
  object-lesson in effective composition.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:109 Jl ‘17 150w


=WARD, GILBERT OAKLEY.= Practical use of books and libraries; an
elementary manual. (Useful reference ser.) 3d ed rev and enl il $1.25
Boston bk. 020 17-178

  “A carefully revised, enlarged, reset, and in part rewritten edition.
  Some of the more important changes from the second edition are as
  follows: the magazine list has been revised and rearranged; certain
  sections on debate work, well covered elsewhere, have been replaced by
  detailed directions for making a working bibliography; the chapter on
  book buying has been prefaced by a description of the principal
  sources of information about books, especially reviews.”—A L A Bkl

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:366 My ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:167 Je ‘17

  “A book which all high-school students should be familiar with.”

       + =School R= 25:304 Ap ‘17 10w


=WARD, HARRY FREDERICK.= Labor movement from the standpoint of religious
values. *$1.25 (3c) Sturgis & Walton 331.8 17-17728

  The author is professor of social service at the Boston university
  school of theology. The lectures were originally given to students in
  the university; they were repeated in Ford Hall, Boston, in 1915, as
  noonday lectures to “men of all classes and creeds, of all ranks,
  standards and opinions. ... The text is from a verbatim stenographic
  report, with no changes whatever.” (Preface) The questions and answers
  of the forum period following each lecture are included. “Contents:
  Trade unions; Socialism; Syndicalism; The demand for leisure; The
  demand for income; Violence and its causes; Labor and the law;
  Democracy and industry.” (N Y Br Lib News)

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:104 Jl ‘17

  “An unusual feature of the book is the reproduction of a testimonial
  adopted in the form of a resolution by the I.W.W. propaganda league of
  Boston in appreciation of the sympathetic expositions of the cause of
  labor by Professor Ward. ... A wide knowledge of the various phases of
  the working class movement is exhibited throughout the lectures.”
  Alexander Trachtenberg

       + =N Y Call= p14 Je 24 ‘17 950w


=WARD, HERBERT.= Mr Poilu; notes and sketches with the fighting French.
il *$2.50 (10c) Doran 940.91 (Eng ed 17-26483)

  Mr Ward, author of “My life with Stanley’s rear-guard,” is an English
  sculptor who, after living in New Zealand and Australia, being in turn
  sailor, miner, gymnast in a traveling circus and stock-rider, saw five
  years of active service in Africa, part of the time as a member of
  Stanley’s expedition to relieve Emin Pasha in the Sudan. In 1900, Mr
  Ward settled in Paris, but returned to England in 1914 and attached
  himself as lieutenant to the famous No. 3 convoy of the British
  ambulance committee, operating under the French army. The book is a
  series of notes, rather than a connected narrative, giving first-hand
  impressions of the French common soldier at the front, and of the
  French army system—a system that is, says the author, “peculiarly
  adapted to the French temperament; it is in harmony with their
  intelligence, their love of liberty, and their high state of
  civilization.” One chapter is devoted to “The women of France.” The
  forty-eight illustrations in color and black and white are from the
  author’s drawings of the “poilu” as seen at the front under all sorts
  of conditions.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:446 Jl ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p82 Je ‘17 80w

  “During the last year or two Mr Ward has become well known to
  Americans by his lectures in this country, from ocean to ocean, in aid
  of French soldiers and their families. ... Although written with the
  greatest modesty and with a certain effect of casualness, the book
  presents a brilliant analysis of spiritual qualities, of temperament,
  of racial endowment.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:266 Jl 15 ‘17 200w

       + =Outlook= 116:489 Jl 25 ‘17 150w

       + =Spec= 118:239 F 24 ‘17 170w

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 250w

  “Certainly claims attention for the artistic merit of its
  illustrations.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p599 D 14 ‘16 130w


=WARD, LESTER FRANK.=[2] Glimpses of the cosmos. 8v v 5 *$2.50 Putnam
301

  In a series of eight volumes, of which this is the fifth, the
  publishers are bringing out the minor writings of Lester Ward, with
  biographical and historical notes. The material is arranged
  chronologically, so that the mental development of the author may be
  followed. The present volume covers the years 1893-1897.

  “The work is interesting, not only as reproducing numerous papers upon
  important subjects, but also as a record of the author’s mental
  evolution.”

       + =Ath= p461 S ‘17 50w

         =R of Rs= 55:442 Ap ‘17 40w

  “The value of all these minor writings of Prof. Ward is by no means
  established by their publication, but the principal objection to this
  collection of his entire works is that they are not arranged according
  to subjects. As a ‘mental autobiography’ the volumes will be of
  interest to very few.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p19 O 14 ‘17 170w


=WARD, MARY AUGUSTA (ARNOLD) (MRS HUMPHRY WARD).= ‘Missing.’ il *$1.50
(1½c) Dodd 17-28797

  A war novel not concerned with the soldier at the front except as seen
  thru the tears and anguish of the woman at home. The central figure is
  Nelly Sarratt, a war bride, thru whose brief honeymoon the reader
  comes to know her as a very beautiful, childlike, appealing little
  soul who has given every ounce of her love to her adored soldier
  husband. He goes back to the front. Later comes the message that he
  has been reported wounded and missing. Weeks of illness leave the wife
  limp and unresisting in the hands of capable friends. A sister who
  counts everything about war a nuisance, and who cannot forgive Nelly
  for marrying a poor man, watches with silent approval the solicitous
  thoughtfulness of a young baronet for Nelly’s welfare. When the moment
  comes for the sister to hasten to a French hospital to identify a man
  who had lost his memory but who might be George Sarratt she denies the
  identity believing that it will spoil Nelly’s prospects. Memory
  returns; the man asks for his wife; Nelly hastens to his bedside and
  comforts him in his last moments. Her sorrow turns her frailties to
  strength. She becomes a nurse, “uplifted strengthened—to endure and
  serve.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:171 F ‘18

  “It is a pedestrian performance, by no means on the level of
  ‘Marcella’ and ‘Helbeck of Bannisdale.’”

       — =Ath= p597 N ‘17 100w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:337 N ‘17 140w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Bookm= 46:599 Ja ‘18 550w

  “If the war must enter fiction, it can scarcely enter it more wisely
  and more significantly than in Mrs Ward’s latest novel.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 N 3 ‘17 1550w

       + =Cleveland= p3 Ja ‘18 60w

  “‘Missing’ might be a contribution to the contemporary literature
  about woman, as vital in its way as ‘A woman of genius,’ but, like
  most of Mrs Ward’s work, it lacks reality. It is a cleverly staged,
  well-managed drama of the Pinero type.”

     – + =Dial= 64:117 Ja 31 ‘18 150w

         =Nation= 106:95 Ja 24 ‘18 300w

  “The most interesting parts of the book are the occasional glimpses it
  gives of England and the English at war, glimpses few and very brief.
  We wish there were more of them, and could easily have dispensed with
  some of the very numerous descriptions of Lake-country scenery,
  graceful though many of them are, for the sake of seeing more of the
  war conditions.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:433 O 28 ‘17 1000w

  “In construction the story has little subtlety. The only approach to a
  plot arises from the extraordinary treachery of Nelly’s sister, an
  original but not very lifelike figure. The characterisation generally
  is not on Mrs Ward’s usual level. The civilian representative of Major
  Dobbin has more airs and graces than our dear old friend, but he takes
  no hold on our affections. The soldiers are all good men and
  true—there are no George Osbornes among them—but our view of them is
  wholly superficial. The aristocratic V.A.D. is more in the author’s
  earlier manner, and sufficiently convincing as regards her insolence
  and frivolity, and even her occasional lapses into efficiency; but we
  are altogether sceptical concerning her underlying goodness of heart.”

       — =Sat R= 124:290 O 13 ‘17 450w

         =Spec= 119:528 N 10 ‘17 60w

  “It is a poignant little tragedy, portrayed with fidelity, restraint
  and verisimilitude.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 F 10 ‘18 350w

  “A novelist so well equipped and so experienced as Mrs Humphry Ward
  could not produce an uninteresting or manifestly faulty tale; but
  throughout our reading of this new book we felt that this was not a
  story which Mrs Humphry Ward wanted to tell for its own sake. It has
  all the sterling qualities of her fiction, but less of the breadth of
  life, less of the obvious personal interest in the characters and the
  subject, than some of her novels. ... It is all reasonable, true, and
  just; a sound story well composed and logically, if lengthily, worked
  out.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p476 O 4 ‘17 500w


=WARD, MARY AUGUSTA (ARNOLD) (MRS HUMPHRY WARD).= Towards the goal.
*$1.25 (2½c) Scribner 940.91 17-21840

  Mrs Ward’s art as a novelist has been put to the great service of
  telling to the world how the British are steadily pushing towards the
  goal of that just, necessary and final victory which shall make the
  sacrifice of the best and highest in the empire not in vain. In a
  series of letters addressed to Theodore Roosevelt, written between
  March 24 and June 1, 1917, she tells what needed to be made graphic of
  the work of the navy and of the army in France. Mr Roosevelt
  contributes a preface in which he says “Mrs Ward’s volume is of high
  value as a study of contemporary history. It is of at least as high
  value as an inspiration to constructive patriotism.” The prophecy in
  her first letter that “the logic of facts will sweep the American and
  British nations together in some sort of intimate union” is fulfilled
  before the close of the book which is, in some sense, a sequel to
  “England’s effort.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:21 O ‘17

  “Gives a valuable first-hand account of certain organized German
  atrocities, such as the brutal treatment of Senlis, about which too
  little is generally known.”

       + =Ath= p476 S ‘17 100w

  “As in the case of its predecessor, ‘Towards the goal’ represents a
  very happy combination. It is authoritative. Mrs Ward has seen the
  operations in France and she has talked with those who know most of
  the situation both in England and in France. Moreover, she possesses
  the imagination and the art which make her readers see with her—an
  element which gives the book the worth which could never have been
  gained by the facts in the hands of one less skilled. All through the
  latter part of the book the strong joy of England is made clear over
  the entry of America into the war.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 5 ‘17 1300w

  “Distinguished for intensity of feeling, and an appreciation of the
  meaning of the war to all the Allies.”

       + =Cleveland= p118 N ‘17 40w

  “As a work of contemporary history, Mrs Ward’s book must win a lasting
  reputation.”

       + =Ind= 92:342 N 17 ‘17 150w

  “From one who knows the German mind as Mrs Ward has known it, the
  stinging condemnation of its materialism, its ruthless ambition, and
  its deliberate inhumanity in war, which she more than once voices,
  comes with exceptional force; and her repeated insistence that nothing
  less than ‘restitution, reparation, and guarantees’ will insure a
  lasting peace is clearly no literary repetition of a political
  formula, but a conviction from which her personal observations offer
  her no escape.”

       + =Nation= 105:542 N 15 ‘17 800w

  “Mrs Ward is interested always in the achievements and the influence
  of personality, and this gives color and life to her pages. ... It is
  a wonderful story, tragic, inspiring, deeply moving, and Mrs Ward
  tells it well, though with the utmost brevity.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:301 Ag 19 ‘17 1000w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:684 O ‘17 30w

  “Mrs Ward tells us that the letters are written not for Englishmen but
  as ‘a general account for Americans.’ From this point of view the
  volume deserves nothing but praise.”

       + =Sat R= 124:132 Ag 18 ‘17 400w

  “As in the case of ‘England’s effort,’ she was given every facility by
  the authorities for obtaining the material for her book.”

       + =Spec= 119:358 O 6 ‘17 730w

  “The letters are, in the first place, descriptive of certain phases of
  the war as Mrs Ward has observed them. The second purpose of Mrs
  Ward’s book seems to be political. She writes to urge upon Americans
  the desirability of making the demand for ‘reparation, restitution,
  guarantees’ the guiding purpose of their representatives in the peace
  negotiations. While the letters contain but a small amount of fresh
  information, they are pleasantly, even persuasively written. Mrs Ward
  is to be specially thanked for her commendation of Lord Haldane.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 700w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p363 Ag 2 ‘17 1000w


=WARE, MARY S.= Old world through old eyes. il *$2 (1½c) Putnam 915
17-15435

  Mrs Ware, “seventy years young,” started off alone in 1912 for a three
  years’ tour of the Orient. She visited “Japan and the Philippines,
  China, Burmah and Siam, Cambodia, India, and the East Indian islands,”
  was a guest at four native courts and had interviews with various
  other native rulers. She tells us that she has “given little space to
  descriptions of natural scenery or of national monuments,” because
  what most interested her in her travels “were the results obtained in
  colonization and in the government of backward peoples by the
  Americans, English, French and Dutch.” (Preface) A few pages towards
  the end of the book give a brief chronicle of Mrs Ware’s life in Paris
  in 1915. These letters of travel, written to her family, have been
  collected and printed for her grandchildren. Any money realized by her
  from the book will be sent, while the war lasts, to French hospitals,
  and after the war, to French soldiers blinded in the war.

  “Its interest is indeed compelling.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 13 ‘17 1050w

  “She is evidently a woman of strong character and trained intellect as
  well as large heart, and her book has more of character and
  individuality than would be found in most collections of family
  letters from abroad.”

       + =Dial= 63:595 D 6 ‘17 250w

  “The author says: ‘I have not followed the usual course of travel
  narrative.’ ... It is this departure from ‘the usual course,’ this
  fresh curiosity, this sight of a developing world as a wide-eyed old
  lady sees it, that is largely responsible for the marked charm and
  interest of the book. ... Mrs Ware’s little investigation of American
  rule in the Philippines is most interesting reading. ‘The Americans,’
  she says, ‘have a clean government over here.’ It was there that she
  met General Pershing and had many good talks with him about the
  islands.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:278 Jl 29 ‘17 800w


=WARREN, MRS CONSTANCE M. (WILLIAMS).= Phœnix. il *$1.40 (2c) Houghton
17-8464

  Boston society, with its strict traditions giving way to the
  encroachments of newer manners and customs, forms the background of
  this story. Janet, the heroine, is a young girl, sweet and unspoiled
  in spite of great wealth. She has given her heart to Donald Craig, a
  boyish sweetheart, and she is waiting in simple happiness for the
  declaration of his love. But Donald is poor and he goes away to make
  his fortune leaving the words unsaid. Hurt and rebuffed, Janet marries
  Osborne Slade, a man older than herself, but a most desirable person
  by all Boston standards. The story has to do with her marriage. It is
  a tepid success for a time, but a crisis arises and at this time Janet
  meets Donald again. The story closes with the European war in progress
  and Janet serving as a nurse in France.

  “Fidelity to the varied aspects of the present-day life in Boston is
  to be found in ‘The phœnix.’ Sometimes, however, mere truth palls, and
  there are pages of the book where the author quite fails to hold our
  interest, through her very evident desire to make her picture a
  faithful one. ... What the author has done supremely well is to create
  the atmosphere of over-organized hustle and underlying boredom in
  which so many well-to-do women exist.” D. L. M.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p7 Mr 17 ‘17 450w

  “With the possible exception of one or two of the minor characters,
  the people in the book are not well drawn, and the novel as a whole is
  somewhat dull.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:172 Ap 29 ‘17 250w

  “The final chapters have a bit of the cinema about them. But ‘The
  phoenix’ is sincere and alive, while the characters, with the possible
  exception of Donald Craig, are drawn with faithfulness. It is a good
  specimen of new Boston fiction.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 470w


=WASHBURN, MARGARET FLOY.= Movement and mental imagery; outlines of a
motor theory of the complexer mental processes. il *$1.75 Houghton 150
16-15871

  This work by a professor of psychology in Vassar college is published
  as one of the Vassar semi-centennial series. “The author deals with
  types of association among movements; movement and consciousness; the
  spontaneous recurrence of movements; the memory after-image and
  perseveration; the connecting links in movement-systems; associative
  dispositions; imageless processes; and cognate matters.” (Ath)

         =Ath= p33 Ja ‘17 40w

         =Boston Transcript= p8 O 4 ‘16 350w

  “While the appeal of the book is distinctly to the technical student
  of psychology, the wider bearings of the conception are well
  considered.”

       + =Dial= 61:318 O 19 ‘16 300w

         =Ind= 90:297 My 12 ‘17 140w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:156 O ‘16

         =Pratt= p20 O ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:6 Ja ‘17 9w


=WASHBURN, STANLEY.= Russian advance. il *$1.25 (3c) Doubleday 940.91
17-2489

  This is Mr Washburn’s third volume of field notes from the Russian
  front. It covers the period from June 5 to September 1, 1916, and is a
  reprint in part of articles that have appeared in the London Times. He
  has confined his account of Russian operations to that part of the
  campaign that came under his own observation on the southwestern
  front. The book closes with a summary of the Russian offensive to the
  first of September.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:309 Ap ‘17

         =Cleveland= p45 Mr ‘17 60w

  “A strict censorship has made it impossible for the writer to give
  names and details and explanations that would have added much to the
  interest of his narrative. But it is full enough for the general
  reader, and it also has the merit of handling topics not already
  written to death by dozens of other war-chroniclers.” P. F. Bicknell

       + =Dial= 62:306 Ap 5 ‘17 110w

  “His book is not long; but he has had the ability to choose for his
  setting forth those salient things that really present the picture of
  the army, the country, the strategy, the people, the occurrences great
  and small of Russia’s part in the war; we have a real glimpse of the
  Russian advance as a whole, and an actual sense of what, in Russia and
  in Austria, lies behind it.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:57 F 18 ‘17 300w

  “Unlike ‘Victory in defeat,’ wherein the retreat of 1915 is given with
  considerable technical detail, the present book inclines to the
  colorful and the descriptive, with particular emphasis on the
  master-mind that directed the movement.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 150w

  “It is a very cheering report.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p159 Ap 5 ‘17 1000w


=WASTE, HENRIE=, pseud. Philosophy; an autobiographical fragment. *$1.25
Longmans 17-5129

  “Philosophy, fair maid of ever youthful face and wisely old heart, is
  the fairy godmother in this unique tale of adventuring minds and
  hearts. Its scene is laid in Freiburg, where the American girl who
  tells the story in the first person, is pursuing the study of
  philosophy mainly with the intent to find out all she can about how we
  know and why we wish to know and whence come and how are governed the
  motives that control action and the laws that control thought. ... But
  she is just as human a girl as if she were not so entranced with this
  high purpose and so absorbed in the mental occupations that will
  advance her on the way. She is a true daughter of Eve, who was the
  mother of all philosophy, and, like Eve, her mind is one large
  question mark before all the manifestations of life. ... She has not
  long to wait until the signal becomes insistent and the quest
  absorbing in the matter of the personality of one of her
  fellow-students. The story of the quick developing of love between
  them and their mutual attraction for each other makes an idyllic
  romance wherein philosophy stands ever at their elbows.”—N Y Times

         =Boston Transcript= p7 My 16 ‘17 150w

  “There is about this book a quality of freshness and vividness which
  will hold the general reader’s interest even through the passages of
  philosophical analysis and research.”

       + =Dial= 62:148 F 22 ‘17 190w

  “Rather dull and prosy narrative.”

       — =Ind= 90:87 Ap 7 ‘17 40w

         =Int J Ethics= 27:407 Ap ‘17 100w

  “The author evidently knows her philosophical books, and shows no
  little acumen in weaving the theorems of the schools into the
  conversations of a philandering young man and a maid. By all odds the
  best things in the book are the satirical yet kindly sketches of the
  other students of the seminar who are not so soulful as Taddeo.”

       + =Nation= 105:180 Ag 16 ‘17 200w

  “A vivid crescendo of experience, alive with the glamor of
  personality. You read it again as soon as you can, with the same
  quickened beating of the heart and far more understanding.” R. B.

     + + =New Repub= 10:384 Ap 28 ‘17 450w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:47 Mr ‘17

  “Presumably a first book, it shows the anonymous author to be
  possessed of unusual powers and of striking promise. Her ability to
  suffuse all life with the light of abstract thought, made glowing and
  vital, sets her in a class apart, while her power to express tensity
  of emotion and make it fine and beautiful is a gift ever welcome among
  writers of fiction.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:21 Ja 21 ‘17 660w

  “A rather skillful book and also rather fascinating. Henrie can react
  with girlish enthusiasm upon Freiburg with its quaint formal
  professors, its dumpy landladies, and its uncompromising salespeople
  who are insulted if you ask for something they do not have: and she
  can love Taddeo, an olive skinned cosmopolitan.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 27 ‘17 230w


=WATSON, FREDERICK.= Story of the Highland regiments. il *$2 Macmillan
355 (Eng ed 16-6535)

  “Mr Watson has collected into this volume a story of the campaigns in
  which the Highland regiments have taken part, and it covers the period
  from the beginning of the ‘Black Watch’ in 1725, to the spring of
  1915. ... The volume is illustrated with full page pictures in colors,
  and the scenes depicted are the historic and striking incidents in the
  history of the various regiments. Apt quotations from the poets
  introduce the chapters and heighten the effect of the stories.”—Boston
  Transcript

  “Every chapter is intensely interesting, those describing the service
  of the Highlanders in America especially so, for where the accounts
  deal with the conflict against the United States the story is told
  with expressions of appreciation of the cause of the American
  colonists.” J. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 400w

       + =Spec= 116:195 F 5 ‘16 180w


=WATSON, SIR WILLIAM.= Man who saw, and other poems arising out of the
war. *$1 Harper 821 17-15992

  “The contents of this volume include little that can be described as
  poems of action. The author desires his book to be considered as an
  intermittent commentary on the main developments, and some of the
  collateral phenomena, of the war. ... Nineteen of the poems are
  sonnets. ... Although many of these poems have already appeared in
  various publications, ... not a few have since undergone a process for
  which ‘revision’ would be a feeble word.” (Preface)

  “Among the finest of the sonnets are those entitled ‘Tranquil
  liberty,’ ‘Commemorative,’ and ‘You at the helm.’”

       + =Ath= p310 Je ‘17 200w

  “Nothing like this poetry has come from an English poet since
  Wordsworth lived and Swinburne died.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 16 ‘17 1400w

         =Cleveland= p121 N ‘17 50w

         =Ind= 91:135 Jl 28 ‘17 50w

  “I think Sir William Watson has served England by proving that in
  patriotic and martial vigor the most fastidious of her artists can vie
  with the most daredevil of her rhymesters.” O. W. Firkins

       + =Nation= 106:91 Ja 24 ‘18 250w

       + =N Y Times= 22:241 Je 24 ‘17 500w

  “The energy of these poems will keep them alive long after many more
  tuneful echoes of the conflict are forgotten.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:217 Ag ‘17 130w

       + =Spec= 118:613 Je 2 ‘17 620w

  “The subject matter of the sonnets is rather too pedestrian to justify
  the use of that metier, and the other poems incline to tickle the
  intellect rather than to stir the emotions. These verses of Mr Watson
  seem to exhibit the temper of an Englishman so outraged by
  contemporary events that he neglects to listen to the muse—a poet so
  overwhelmed that he forgets to sing.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 230w

  “Sir William Watson’s aim is clear, and he has achieved it. His book
  is, as he desired it to be, ‘an intermittent commentary on the main
  developments, and some of the collateral phenomena, of the war.’ But
  future times will turn to it when they want to know what Britain’s
  case was, what Britain felt and thought in the war, not when they need
  the consolation and exaltation of great poetry. ‘Crossing the
  Rubicon,’ ‘The battle of the Bight,’ ‘The charge of the 9th Lancers,’
  and other poems that readers may remember to have seen in periodicals
  (though on most of them Sir William Watson has worked anew since they
  were first published) fire the blood. The strange Coleridgian poem,
  ‘Desolation’ is violently exciting.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p354 Jl 26 ‘17 1000w


=WATSON, SIR WILLIAM.= Retrogression, and other poems. *$1.25 Lane 821
17-2699

  This book of poems is a companion volume to the author’s prose work
  “Pencraft.” It is a defense of the stately and beautiful traditions of
  English literature, and a lament over their passing:

  “For few and fewer do they grow, Who know, or ever care to know, The
  great things greatly said and sung In this heroic English tongue.”

  The book is made up of two parts: Poems of the literary life; Poems
  personal and general. All the poems appear here in print for the first
  time with the exception of six reprinted from English periodicals.

  “Little in this collection touches Mr Watson’s early standard of
  finished verse compact of serious if not profound thought. The
  title-poem is the best, but is too short to redeem the book from the
  charge of mere poetic journalism.”

       — =Ath= p594 D ‘16 30w

  “Most of the lyrics are brief—some consisting of only a couplet or a
  quatrain, and there is considerable evidence of temper which would
  have been better modified in more than one instance. There are also
  memorable lines and there are flashes of wit. But on the whole it is
  not a volume that will add greatly to Mr Watson’s reputation.” N. H.
  D.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p7 F 10 ‘17 1000w

  “With this poem ‘Nature’s way’ and much else in his book that is sound
  in thought and brilliant in phrase, Mr Watson will find more
  sympathizers than he may realize or even desire—for he seems to enjoy
  thinking of himself as a sort of ‘lonely antagonist of destiny,’ a
  last survivor of the giants before the flood. It is a pity that this
  mood of haughty isolation has grown so strong in his work of late. ...
  The man who has successfully challenged Keats in ‘Ode to autumn’ and
  Arnold in ‘Wordsworth’s grave’ and Milton himself in ‘Lachrymæ
  musarum,’ might well afford to let alone all really ignorant or merely
  spiteful criticism of his work.” Odell Shepard

     + — =Dial= 63:18 Je 28 ‘17 700w

  “Of late years, Mr William Watson has been making poetry a criticism
  of art rather than a criticism of life. Many of the poems in
  ‘Retrogression’ seem to be versifications of passages in his
  ‘Pencraft: a plea for the older ways.’ But the versification is deftly
  done; it glows now and then with the magic of Wordsworth’s grave’ and
  the ‘Ode in May.’”

     + — =Lit D= 54:633 Mr 10 ‘17 300w

  “If our own poet’s judgments are correct, surely he need not excite
  himself over the faults which give to his own virtues the helpful
  emphasis of contrast; there are worse fates than insulation—on a
  pinnacle.” O. W. Firkins

       + =Nation= 105:66 Jl 19 ‘17 330w

       + =R of Rs= 55:438 Ap ‘17 110w

  “All lovers of good poetry, and especially of the finely adjusted word
  and phrase, will be delighted with the greater part of Mr William
  Watson’s new volume, ‘Retrogression.’ ... The last portion of the
  volume, entitled ‘Poems personal and general,’ contain some delightful
  verses written to Mr Watson’s own daughter, and some tributes to his
  friends. As a whole the volume will attract, in spite of the fact that
  none of the poems rises to the heights reached by the poet in previous
  years.”

     + — =Spec= 117:772 D 16 ‘16 1150W

  “Not always does he attain the aphoristic character of Pope, and not
  often the sprightly wit and pungency of Lowell. Moreover, some of the
  rhymed epigrams seem inspired by ill-nature, with the malice
  ill-concealed. But, on the whole, the book can be recommended for its
  bracing effect.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 2 ‘17 550w

  “This volume will certainly not add to Mr Watson’s poetic reputation.
  He has always been an admirable critic, and has shown more than any
  modern of Ben Jonson’s gift of converting literary criticism into
  poetry. But he used to have other gifts too. Here there is nothing
  else which is poetry and unfortunately a great deal which is scarcely
  even verse. ... But in the critical poems he has something to say and
  something that needs saying just now.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p570 N 30 ‘16 900w


=WATTS, MARY STANBERY.= Three short plays. *$1.25 (2c) Macmillan 812
17-1624

  Mrs Watts, well known as a novelist, appears as a dramatist in this
  new book. The first, “An ancient dance,” is a two-act play in which a
  phonograph is utilized as an instrument of tragedy. In “Civilization,”
  the play in one act that follows, the theory that “a man’s a man for
  a’ that” is turned inside out and shown to be false according to the
  conventions of modern society. “The wearin’ o’ the green,” the third
  play, is a farce in two acts in which the appearance of a real plumber
  and a real burglar at a fancy dress party produces an amusing
  situation.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:304 Ap ‘17

  “These three plays, by a well-known American novelist, exhibit
  versatility and a considerable power of writing good dialogue.”

       + =Ath= p413 Ag ‘17 60w

         =Pratt= p37 O ‘17

  “The dialogue is well written and the characterization good, but the
  plays are rather over-weighted with detail.”

       + =Spec= 118:545 My 12 ‘17 30w

  “‘The ancient dance’ depends upon unlikely error. ... ‘Civilization’
  seems designed to prove the time-honored theory that society girls can
  fall in love with nothing but brass buttons. ... ‘The wearin’ o’ the
  green’ is a rather obvious farce depending upon mistaken identity
  carried far beyond the bounds of probability.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 280w


=WATTS-DUNTON, WALTER THEODORE.= Poetry and the Renascence of wonder.
*$1.75 Button 808.1 16-22776

  “‘Poetry and the Renascence of wonder,’ the two famous essays by the
  late Theodore Watts-Dunton, are presented as rewritten by the author.
  The text is interspersed with ‘riders’ culled from his criticisms on
  poetry contributed to the Athenæum, printed in closer text than the
  material of the essays. The essay on poetry appeared in the ninth and
  subsequent editions of the ‘Encyclopædia Britannica.’ It examines and
  explains the principles of poetic art as exemplified by the poetry of
  all great literatures. ‘The Renascence of wonder’ is the return to the
  primitive, to the ‘childlike wonder of the Iliad and the Odyssey.’” (R
  of Rs) The second essay appeared first in the Cyclopædia of English
  literature. The book has an introduction by Thomas Hake.

  “Not satisfactory as a finished product though full of suggestions to
  the earnest student of poetry.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 13:213 F ‘17

  “We hoped, when the first volume on our list, ‘Poetry, and the
  Renascence of wonder,’ was announced, that the large essay or treatise
  on poetics which Watts-Dunton used to speak of as having been sadly
  cut down to form the article ‘Poetry’ in the ‘Encyclopaedia
  Britannica’ was going to be published at full length. It now appears
  that the original essay no longer exists, and that the excised
  portions were long ago used up, in our columns and elsewhere. ...
  Unfortunately, it has lost instead of gained by expansion into a
  book.”

     + — =Ath= p467 O ‘16 1350w

  “Includes the two essays by which he is best known as a critic, a body
  of historical and critical comment which will long have a distinctive
  value.”

       + =Bookm= 45:292 My ‘17 70w

         =Ind= 89:458 Mr 12 ‘17 100w

         =Nation= 105:293 S 13 ‘17 120w

       + =R of Rs= 54:676 D ‘16 140w

  “As no one is likely to read this book who has not a real interest in
  literature as a fine art, it will probably irritate all its readers by
  its formlessness as well as by the inclusion of such poor stuff as the
  essay on ‘Ethical poetry.’ Yet there will be very few of them whose
  gratitude will not survive their irritation, especially if they supply
  for themselves the index which the editor has neglected to supply.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p463 S 28 ‘16 1750w


=WATTS-DUNTON, WALTER THEODORE.= Vesprie Towers. *$1.35 (2c) Lane
17-7458

  An unfailing belief in their “Luck” had been the inheritance of all
  the Vespries of Vesprie Towers. It survived in Violet Vesprie, the
  last of the line, tho she is impoverished to the point of penury and
  finally has to face eviction from her home. She goes to London where
  she spends four years in wretchedness, but her pride and her faith
  never waver. In London she befriends a young girl in need, finding
  later that she is a girl from the neighborhood of her old home. And it
  is thru this act of kindness that good fortune comes to her, making
  way for a return to Vesprie Towers.

  “The value of the novel lies chiefly in its beauty of spirit and in
  its evocation of beautiful images.”

       + =Ath= p580 D ‘16 750w

  “One of those leisurely, well-ripened Victorian novels that convey
  relaxation and a gentle degree of interest to their readers.”

       + =Dial= 62:483 My 31 ‘17 150w

  “The story does not approach in any form or manner that other novel,
  ‘Aylwin,’ which made Watts-Dunton’s name known as an author. It is
  amateurish by every sign; there is not a character in it that does not
  smack of the lay figure, the style is faulty, the dialogue stilted and
  dull. Now and then it seems to get really under way; there will be a
  passage that stirs you—but immediately the thing falls down again. ...
  The book is interesting as some queer old print is interesting, simply
  as a relic of the kind of thing that once existed.”

     – + =N Y Times= 22:74 Mr 4 ‘17 950w

       + =Outlook= 115:668 Ap 11 ‘17 15w


=WAUGH, FRANK ALBERT.= Agricultural college; a study in organization and
management and especially in problems of teaching. *$1.10 (3c) Judd
630.7 16-23153

  The author, of the Massachusetts agricultural college, treats the
  problems of agricultural education from the viewpoint of the teacher.
  On controversial points, as he frankly states, he has stressed the
  unorthodox point of view. He says, “Education in general is ruled too
  much by tradition, and the agricultural colleges, of all academic
  institutions, should be free to take the radical course wherever
  tradition is called in question. The agricultural college is from the
  nature of the case, a radical, not a traditional, institution.”
  Contents: Purposes and ideals; College organization; Physical and
  financial problems; Organization of instruction; Specialization in
  agriculture; Course of study—materials; Course of study—arrangement;
  Methods of teaching; Extension teaching; The experiment station;
  Special problems and methods.

  “Scholarly yet popular in treatment, and accurate. Interesting and
  profitable reading, whether or not one agrees with its conclusions.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:299 Ap ‘17

  “Suggestive, interestingly written, critical discussion, the first in
  the field.”

       + =Cleveland= p124 N ‘17 10w

  “Clear and radical. ... It is a book for those who attend faculty
  meetings, for fathers with sons who want this kind of vocational
  education, and above all for legislators.”

         =Ind= 89:557 Mr 26 ‘17 300w


=WAUGH, FRANK ALBERT.= Natural style in landscape gardening. il *$2.50
(9c) Badger, R: G. 710 17-17750

  A collection of essays on landscape gardening. In the first essay,
  What is meant, the author reviews the controversy that used to be
  waged over the merits of the “formal” and the “natural” styles. Modern
  practice, he says, has developed an admirable catholicity of taste
  that accepts the best of both, and uses the one or the other as best
  suits the artist’s purpose. The remaining essays are: The native
  landscape; Form and spirit; The landscape motive; Principles of
  structural composition; The art of grouping; Features and furnishings;
  The open field. The author, who is head of the department of
  agriculture at Amherst agricultural college, has recently been
  appointed consulting landscape architect of the United States forest
  service. Photographs from his camera illustrate the work.

  “The book, as well as the style of landscape design which it so
  sympathetically explains, should appeal forcefully to the engineer.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 80:371 F 21 ‘18 200w


=WAUGH, FRANK ALBERT.= Outdoor theaters. il *$2.50 (16c) Badger, R: G.
725.8 17-18366

  A book on the design, construction and use of open-air auditoriums.
  While the outdoor theater is a new institution in America, there are
  thruout the country, as this book will show, a number of notable
  examples. Among these are “Bankside,” at the University of North
  Dakota, the Greek theater at the University of California, the outdoor
  theaters at Vassar and Bryn Mawr, the “Player’s green” in Chicago, the
  municipal theater in Anoka, Minnesota, and “Brookside” in Mt. Kisco,
  New York. The subject is treated in three parts: Questions of use;
  Problems of design; Selected examples. There is a brief foreword by
  Percy MacKaye. The book is well illustrated and there is a short
  bibliography.

       + =Engin News-Rec= 80:371 F 21 ‘18 80w

  Reviewed by M. H. B. Mussey

         =Survey= 39:447 Ja 19 ‘18 180w


=WAWN, F. T.= Joyful years. *$1.50 (1c) Dutton 17-19508

  “The joyful years are those when you are finding yourselves,
  children.” So speaks Shaun James, writer, widower, and one of the
  leading characters in this rather lengthy novel of English present day
  life. Other characters are Cynthia Rosemary Bremner, a normal, happy
  girl; her brother Alan; her young cousin Joyce; her older and more
  sophisticated cousin Phyllis; Laurence Man, an official of the “Great
  company,” in love with Cynthia; and Peter Middleton, meant to be an
  artist and trying to be a business man, also in love with Cynthia. The
  last eighty pages deal with the characters in wartime, but the story
  ends happily for Cynthia and her husband.

  “Mr Wawn writes well, and his characters are people of flesh and blood
  in whom one can feel an interest. The scene is laid largely near
  Tintagel, and the descriptions of that beautiful and romantic country
  are well done.”

       + =Ath= p363 Jl ‘17 100w

  “Its endless descriptions are touched with a sort of mild eroticism.”
  H. W. Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 46:96 S ‘17 380w

  “In many ways this is an old-fashioned novel—which is another way of
  saying that it is a romantic, leisurely and delightful one. ... The
  wholesomeness and sweet reasonableness of the people one meets in the
  pages of this book are indeed refreshing. ... A word should be said
  also for the delicacy with which the author has written of love and
  marriage. The very soul of purity breathes in his pages.”

     + + =Cath World= 105:839 S ‘17 350w

  “‘The joyful years’ is best described as a first-rate second-rate
  novel. It is one of those stories of solid worth which only the
  English writers seem able to produce. On every page there is evidence
  of the trained thinker and writer who has observed life. ... A good
  story well told.”

       + =Dial= 63:117 Ag 16 ‘17 290w

  “A mental revel in feminine pulchritude.”

       — =Ind= 92:260 N 3 ‘17 40w

  “A tale rather hopelessly old-fashioned, since it records no more
  unconventional a sex-adventure than is involved in a runaway
  marriage. ... The story is ‘well-written’ in a way, but unduly drawn
  out, and marred by a kind of spinsterly voluptuousness which insists
  on our habitual assistance at the heroine’s toilet.”

     – + =Nation= 105:178 Ag 16 ‘17 380w

  “‘The joyful years’ falls short of being a good novel because of the
  saccharine sweetness of its love affair, because of the tawdry
  cheapness of its central philosophy, and because the author
  deliberately chooses the wrong side of great public questions. ... The
  one character of interest is Phyllis. She is real—she lives; her
  shallowness and flippancy are exquisitely drawn.” D. P. Berenberg

     – + =N Y Call= p14 Ag 5 ‘17 450w

  “The novel contains some interesting pictures of the war, as Peter saw
  it from the trenches, and as Cynthia saw it from the point of view of
  the women who had to stay at home and wait.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:274 Jl 22 ‘17 550w

  “The pictures of the hero in the trenches are well drawn.”

       + =Spec= 118:677 Je 16 ‘17 40w


=WEALE, BERTRAM LENOX PUTNAM, pseud. (BERTRAM LENOX SIMPSON).= Fight for
the republic in China. il *$3.50 (4c) Dodd 951 17-31438

  This book covers the years 1911 to 1917. A general introduction
  sketches events leading up to this period. To include everything which
  the student or the casual reader needs to know about the Chinese
  question is the author’s aim. He calls attention particularly to the
  inclusion of certain Chinese and Japanese documents which “afford a
  sharp contrast between varying types of eastern brains.” The
  appendixes give “every document of importance for the period covered.”

  “It would be difficult to overestimate the service this book must
  render to the study of the more important aspects of Far Eastern
  questions. It must have a place in every library furnished with the
  best available materials for the intelligent consideration of China
  and Chinese problems in their relation to the social advance of the
  modern world.” L. E. Robinson

       + =Bookm= 46:267 N ‘17 250w

  “An anti-Japanese bias is often markedly pronounced.”

     + — =Ind= 93:200 F 2 ‘18 600w

  “It is not only an important addition to our positive knowledge but a
  valuable contribution to political literature. It is of unique
  interest in that the case for the republic developed in the narrative
  is supported by official and semi-official documentary evidence. His
  sober analysis of the factor of Japan should be read by every
  intelligent citizen.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:13 Ja 13 ‘18 500w

  “For the reader the work presents all the fascination of the drama,
  for, rapidly as events have moved of late in the Occident, they have
  moved even more swiftly in the Orient.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 D 27 ‘17 720w


=WEAVER, ERASMUS MORGAN.= Notes on military explosives. 4th ed rev and
enl il *$3.25 Wiley 662 17-11354

  “The book shows the leading developments wrought by the present
  war—particularly the employment of atmospheric nitrogen and the
  substitution of wood pulp for cotton. The text opens with some
  elementary notes on chemistry and descriptions of substances entering
  explosives. Then the characteristics and requirements of propelling,
  disrupting and detonating compounds are presented. There are chapters
  on tests, storage, handling and use for special demolitions. An
  appendix contains (1) laboratory experiments to illustrate the section
  on chemistry, (2) a paper by A. S. Cushman on ‘The role of chemistry
  in war,’ and (3) the Interstate commerce commission regulations
  governing the transportation of explosives as freight.” (Engin
  News-Rec) “The author, a major general in the U.S. army, is chief of
  coast artillery.” (St Louis)

       + =Cleveland= p113 S ‘17 50w

  “This book will be interesting to all who desire to serve their
  country as military engineers at the ‘front’ or to make the explosives
  that the needs of the front demand.”

       + =Coal Age= 11:888 My 19 ‘17 1000w

  “General Weaver’s treatise on military explosives has long been one of
  the most important books in the engineer’s military library, but the
  past four years have made the previous edition inadequate in regard to
  use, so that the present edition is welcome.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:360 My 17 ‘17 150w

         =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p16 Ap ‘17 130w

         =St Louis= 15:366 O ‘17 10w


=WEAVER, HENRIETTA.= Flame and the shadow-eater. *$1.40 (2c) Holt
17-14135

  A book of short stories in which the author’s aim has been to present
  certain phases of eastern mysticism in the form of fiction. The
  stories bear such titles as The seller of dreams, The wonder-bubble of
  the world, Mirage in the desert, Dust in the wind, and The
  night-comer, and are written in a manner that is imitative of the
  oriental story teller.

  “Told with all the richness of imagery and measured cadence of the
  oriental tale.”

       + =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 40w

         =Dial= 62:527 Je 14 ‘17 150w

  “The author frequently succeeds only in being obscure when she
  endeavors to be mystical. ... Their abundance of color, their
  intellectual quality, and their departure from the commonplace make
  the stories quite interesting.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:258 Jl 8 ‘17 250w


=WEBB, A. P.=, comp. Bibliography of the works of Thomas Hardy,
1865-1915. *$2.50 Torch press 016.823 17-5721

  “Mr Webb has had in mind chiefly the collector of first editions, and
  has not attempted a complete bibliography, ignoring late editions and
  American editions, except where the latter rank as first editions. He
  includes contributions to books, periodicals, and newspapers, and a
  selection of critical notices, &c. The illustrations comprise a fine
  photogravure portrait of Mr E. O. Hoppé, and facsimiles of ‘The night
  of Trafalgar’ from ‘The dynasts,’ and the war poem ‘Song of the
  soldiers.’” (Ath)

         =Ath= p425 S ‘16 70w

  “Mr Webb, who is now at the front, carried out his work while under
  training in camp, which is not the best place for an undertaking the
  performance of which necessitates close and constant attendance in
  libraries and a liberal expenditure of time. The errors of date and
  description in the collations, the want of uniformity in style, and
  lack of complete reference, of which complaint has been made, can
  easily be remedied in a second edition. Notwithstanding
  inconsistencies in typography, the printing has been well done, and
  the binding of the book is exceptionally tasteful. The index supplies
  much useful information.” A. L. C.

         =Library Association Record= 19:75 F 15 ‘17 400w

       + =Spec= 117:419 D 7 ‘16 140w


=WEBB, MARY.= Golden arrow. *$1.50 (2c) Dutton (Eng ed 17-15288)

  This is one of those books that are distinctly novels of place. The
  Welsh hills that are its setting enter intimately into the story.
  Deborah Arden, the farmer’s daughter who has given her great love to
  Stephen Southernwood, is at home in the hills. But to Stephen,
  town-bred, they are hampering and confining. They become the symbol to
  him of the freedom he has renounced. His love for Deborah is not
  strong enough to hold him and he goes. But once on the other side of
  the world, he finds that it is powerful enough to draw him back. The
  half dozen characters of the story, all types from rustic life, are
  set forth with a sure hand.

  “The author has borrowed largely and more or less superficially from
  Hardy, but she knows her country and her characters: she reflects the
  moods of that physical nature which has produced superstitions and an
  uplifting awe in its people, and she has created a story that is worth
  reading even for its own sake.”

       + =Dial= 62:444 My 17 ‘17 130w

       + =Ind= 90:438 Je 2 ‘17 180w

  “The novel is at its best in the beginning, for it is one of those
  books which seem never quite to get anywhere. ... There are some
  interesting pictures of life in the remote Welsh countryside which is
  the scene of the entire narrative, quite a number of unusually
  well-written passages, and altogether the book is a thoughtful one,
  possessed of many commendable qualities.”

     + — =NY Times= 22:183 My 6 ‘17 250w

       + =Outlook= 115:668 Ap 11 ‘17 14w

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p428 S 7 ‘16 1000w


=WEBB, MARY.= Gone to earth. *$1.50 (1½c) Dutton 17-18165

  Hazel Woodus, only child of a Welsh harper and of a gipsy mother, is a
  passionate lover of nature, and especially of all weak and hunted
  things. “Her own close kinship to the little fox which is her great
  pet is emphasized early in the story.” (N Y Times) She is very
  beautiful, entirely untaught, and wants to be free. But two men,
  utterly unlike, love her: Edward Marston, the young minister, who
  appeals to her spiritual self, and Jack Reddin of Undern, who appeals
  to her physical self. One becomes her husband, the other her lover,
  and her life ends in a tragedy.

  “There is from the very beginning an almost Æschylean sense of
  deepening gloom, and oncoming, unavoidable calamity. Nevertheless,
  there are numerous gleams of light. ... The separate individualities
  of the principal personages stand out strongly and clearly; and the
  author can be complimented upon having produced a notable work of
  fiction.”

       + =Ath= p472 S ‘17 110w

  “Mary Webb writes of her corner of the Welsh mountains with a very
  real understanding of the country folk, and also, alas, with
  unmistakable sentimentality.”

     + — =Dial= 63:220 S 13 ‘17 90w

  “On the whole, the ‘localism’ of this writer is hardly more than a
  garb for her bitter distrust of human nature and society.”

         =Nation= 105:317 S 20 ‘17 270w

  “Puritans will be shocked by the plain-spoken frankness with which the
  author treats questions of sex. ... There is nothing of lewdness even
  suggested—nor is sex glorified and surrounded with a halo of
  mysticism. It is dealt with simply, as a phase of life which cannot be
  ignored. ... Reddin, the brutal squire, is drawn a little too
  strongly, while Edward Marston, whom Hazel marries, is too much of an
  idealist to be true to life.” D. P. Berenberg

     + — =NY Call= p15 S 9 ‘17 380w

  “Like her earlier novel, ‘The golden arrow,’ Mrs Webb’s new romance is
  a story of one of the more remote and lonely districts of Wales. ...
  Hazel’s character is skillfully analyzed, yet she remains always ‘a
  girl in a book,’ a thing of romance and unreality. Edward, whose very
  goodness and generosity proved his undoing, and his placid, altogether
  conventional mother, however, are real people, while the author shows
  throughout a keen sense of life’s ironies. The plot is well worked out
  and the final tragedy a clever bit of symbolism. But what one
  remembers best in closing the book is the beauty of its descriptions
  of the countryside.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:318 Ag 26 ‘17 440w

  “The book is notable for the author’s success in conveying to her
  readers the impression of free open-air life in very wild country.”

       + =Spec= 119:300 S 22 ‘17 50w

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p416 Ag 30 ‘17 400w


=WEBB, SIDNEY.= Restoration of trade union conditions. pa *50c Huebsch
331.87

  “A well known result of the war has been the suspension of trade union
  conditions in the British Isles. ... With the war came a demand for an
  enormously increased production in British manufacturing plants. In
  order to increase the output the government appealed to the labor
  unions to suspend their protective network of usages and customs. The
  unions, with great patriotism, consented, but only after receiving an
  explicit promise from the government that the old rules should be
  restored after the war. The suspension continues. ... Mr Webb’s main
  contention is that the restoration of the old usages and customs is
  impossible.”—Springf’d Republican

         =Ann Am Acad= 74:297 N ‘17 130w

  Reviewed by H. M. Kallen

 *       =Dial= 63:333 O 11 ‘17 2750w

         =Ind= 92:536 D 15 ‘17 140w

  “To disagree with Mr Webb fundamentally, it does not follow at all
  that what he writes is negligible.” J. W.

     + — =NY Call= p14 S 23 ‘17 800w

  “A clear-minded and courageous analysis of the situation.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 S 27 ‘17 700w

  “This little book of approximately one hundred pages should at the
  present time demand the serious attention of every trade-unionist,
  employer, and citizen interested in industrial relations; for in it
  Sidney Webb discusses one of the serious questions facing the English
  nation.” B. M. Selekman

       + =Survey= 38:440 Ag 18 ‘17 850w


=WEBB, SIDNEY.=[2] Works manager to-day. *$1 Longmans 658.7 17-31556

  An address prepared for a series of private gatherings of works
  managers in Great Britain. Sidney Webb believes that, whatever form
  industrial organization may take in the future, whether state control,
  private control or government by the workers themselves prevail, the
  function of works manager must continue. “In my own opinion,” he says,
  “the profession of the manager, under whatever designation, is
  destined, with the ever-increasing complication of man’s enterprises,
  to develop a steadily increasing technique and a more and more
  specialised vocational training of its own; and to secure, like the
  vocation of the engineer, the architect, or the chemist, universal
  recognition as a specialized brain-working occupation.” Some of the
  points touched on are: The function of management; Reducing the cost
  of production; Appointments and dismissals; The recognition of trade
  unionism.

  “The common-sense remarks as to the functions of works managers and
  the best way to exercise them may well appeal to those who still
  adhere to the principle that, business being business, profits are the
  most important thing to be considered.”

       + =Ath= p673 D ‘17 70w

  “Had such statements come from any one less fully recognized as a
  thorough student of conditions, in all probability they would have
  been put down as hysterical. The nature of the gathering, the occasion
  of the address and the position of the orator give them a grim
  significance.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 80:371 F 21 ‘18 400w

  “It would be a good thing if managers of industrial enterprises in
  America were required to read ‘The works manager to-day,’ by Sidney
  Webb. Not that it is complete or very profound treatise of the science
  of management—on the contrary, it is easy fireside reading for a
  single evening—but it contains a good deal of very sensible talk to
  which industrial managers might well give heed.” J: A. Fitch

       + =Survey= 39:443 Ja 19 ‘18 1000w


=WEBNER, FRANK ERASTUS.= Factory accounting. il $3.30 LaSalle extension
univ. 657 17-4009

  “This work is intended by the author to be of use to manufacturers and
  accountants as well as to students. It endeavors to cover a broader
  field than cost accounting; and in working out the factory accounting
  technique it deals quite as much with matters of production control as
  with accounting. ... Four distinct parts comprise the volume. In the
  first a brief descriptive survey of the different types of management
  is given. The second deals with the controlling accounts, the general
  exhibits and the relation of cost accounts to the general exhibit. It
  contains also chapters on specific order and process production, and
  on different methods of concentrating their principal characteristics
  for effective handling. Some of these schemes deal mainly with the
  distribution of manufacturing costs over product, others with planning
  and scheduling. The third part is a short chapter describing the
  different types of industries, classed according to production
  methods. The fourth part describes methods of collecting data
  concerning materials, labor, and expense, and of handling these
  accounts.”—J Pol Econ

  “The present volume is better adapted to its primary use,
  correspondence instruction, although providing a fairly satisfactory
  text for classroom use. Mr Webner’s broad experience in the field of
  practice makes him an authority as to what is needed for preparation
  for that line of work. ... Mr Webner’s discussion of the human element
  is very good and calls attention to a subject which needs more
  attention than it generally receives.” R. B. Kester

       + =Ann Am Acad= 71:226 My ‘17 450w

         =Cleveland= p70 My ‘17 30w

  “The unique position of the book in the range of accounting texts is
  attained by virtue of the fact that, while attempting to set forth a
  greater range of matter than comes within the sphere of technical cost
  accounting, the author deals carefully and in detail with the devices
  and methods of discovering and recording production facts.”

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:637 Je ‘17 400w

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:349 Ap ‘17 30w

  “‘The sixth volume of the La Salle course in higher accountancy. ...
  The clear definitions and statements of the author, supplemented by
  charts, graphs and forms, go far toward simplifying a rather complex
  subject.’”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:469 My ‘17 30w (Reprinted from Scientific
         American p364 Ap 7 ‘17)

         =Pratt= p24 Jl ‘17 10w

  “Succeeds in presenting a complex subject with simplicity.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 25 ‘17 50w


=WEBSTER, HENRY KITCHELL.= Thoroughbred. il *$1.35 (3c) Bobbs 17-3575

  Like many other husbands, he kept his business concerns to himself and
  he told his wife of the impending crisis only when it had ceased to
  impend. He paid his stenographer, ordered the telephone taken from his
  office, and then went home to tell his wife that she might now go back
  to her mother. This was too much for Celia. She was a girl of spirit
  and she promptly flew into a rage. Was that what he thought of her!
  Very well, she would show him! And show him she did—in a twelve dollar
  a month flat (three rooms and bath, unheated, no closets). This is the
  story of Celia’s adventures in house-furnishing and housekeeping. It
  is also that rarity, a love story that is simple, honest and
  unsentimental.

  “Slight, good for reading aloud. Appeared in Everybody’s Magazine.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:268 Mr ‘17

  “It contains no episode such as defaces Mr Webster’s ‘The real
  adventure.’ ... ‘The thoroughbred’ is a wholesome bit of domestic
  romance. ... Mr Webster writes in what may almost be called the
  magazine dialect of American-English. It is the Saturday Evening Post
  style, a talky style which conveys an impression of being like real
  talk, and is very little like it.” H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 45:207 Ap ‘17 450w

  “The ‘Real adventure’ contained rather the promise than the evidence
  of literary mastership. Mr Webster’s third novel, ‘The thoroughbred,’
  contains neither. Considering the work that has preceded it, it is
  extraordinarily disappointing; considering it by itself, the best that
  can be said is that it adequately and entertainingly fills a leisure
  hour or two.”

         =Boston Transcript= p8 F 21 ‘17 200w

  “The whole thing seems too easy; there is too much of the superman
  about it.” E: E. Hale

     – + =Dial= 62:145 P 22 ‘17 550w

  “This trivial prettifaction of the commonplace follows an old
  formula. ... Mr Webster combines this formula with a style of some
  distinction and considerable gayety. In ‘The real adventure’ he wrote
  a novel which was rich in performance. ‘The thoroughbred’ is mere
  timeserving to the gods of publicity and best-sellerdom.”

       — =New Repub= 10:146 Mr 3 ‘17 250w

       + =N Y Times= 22:26 Ja 28 ‘17 550w

  “Henry Kitchell Webster certainly understands the ways of women, which
  is another way of saying that he understands human nature. ... In some
  ways, despite its much smaller scope, ‘The thoroughbred’ is a better
  piece of work than ‘The real adventure.’” E. P. Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 91:204 Ja 20 ‘17 450w

  “A diverting tale, not true or important, but the sentiment is
  pretty.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p15 Mr 4 ‘17 200w


=WEBSTER, HUTTON.= Early European history. il $1.60 Heath 940 17-12510

  “Prof. Hutton Webster’s ‘Early European history,’ which begins with
  prehistoric man, covers the rise of European civilization down to the
  period of the Protestant reformation with which most histories of
  modern Europe begin, and it may, therefore, be used conveniently in
  conjunction with any standard modern history.” (Ind) “The work is
  intended for high schools which do not care to give a whole year to
  ancient history alone, but which prefer, in accordance with the recent
  recommendations of some educational bodies, to cover the general field
  of all history in a two years’ course.” (Nation)

         =Ind= 91:266 Ag 18 ‘17 50w

  “Mr Webster has kept to the same high level of excellence which he set
  for himself four years ago in his ‘Ancient history.’ ... He has
  unusually good chapters on the rise and spread of Islam, on the
  Mongols and the Turks, on the formation of national languages and
  literatures, and on early geographical discovery and colonization. ...
  The only unsatisfactory sections are those on feudalism and Germanic
  law.”

     + — =Nation= 105:267 S 6 ‘17 580w

  “Adds another valuable text to the growing list already in this
  field. ... As to maps, illustrations, and plates, the book is well
  supplied. The appendix contains a long table of events and dates,
  which will be likely to hinder rather than help the inexperienced
  teacher.” R. M. Tryon

     + — =School R= 25:686 N ‘17 200w


=WEED, CLARENCE MOORES.= Butterflies worth knowing. (Little nature lib.;
Worth knowing ser.) il *$1.60 (2c) Doubleday 595.7 17-13203

  The author says, “In this little book an attempt has been made to
  discuss the more abundant and widely distributed butterflies of
  eastern North America from the point of view of their life histories
  and their relations to their surroundings.” Part 1, serving as an
  introduction, is given up to a discussion of the structure, color,
  life and habits, etc., of the butterfly. Part 2, the largest section
  of the book is devoted to descriptions of the true butterflies,
  superfamily Papilionoidea; part 3 to the skipper butterflies,
  superfamily Hesperioidea. There are over thirty color plates with
  additional plates in black and white.

  “Brief, interestingly written book for the general reader. There is no
  key for the identification of species.”

     + — =Cleveland= p94 Jl ‘17 50w

  “A volume that will delight and inform.”

         =Lit D= 55:48 Ag 4 ‘17 200w

       + =N Y Times= 22:254 Jl 8 ‘17 80w


=WEEKLEY, ERNEST.= Surnames. *$2.25 Dutton 929.1 (Eng ed 17-10193)

  This book, like an earlier one, “Romance of names,” is, the author
  says, an “offshoot” of the “Dictionary of English surnames” on which
  he has been engaged for some years. He says, “The present volume
  treats much more completely, and hence more ponderously, of certain
  groups of surnames which I have investigated with some approach to
  thoroughness. ... Its relation to the ‘Romance of names’ is that of a
  more or less erudite treatise to a primer, matter which in the former
  book was dismissed in a paragraph or two being here expanded into a
  chapter. ... The index contains some six thousand existing surnames,
  including a certain proportion of French and German names and a
  sprinkling from other countries.” Among the chapter headings are: The
  study of surnames; The Teutonic name-system; Some local surnames; The
  corruption of local surnames; Some occupative surnames; Physical
  nicknames; Costume nicknames; Vegetable nicknames; Pageant names; The
  Shakespeare type of surname.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:447 Jl ‘17

  “A wonderful book.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 18 ‘17 180w

  “This volume and two previous studies by Professor Weekley, ‘The
  romance of words’ and ‘The romance of names’ should be in every home
  library.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:332 S ‘17 100w

  “A professor and the head of a modern language department in one of
  our new universities, Mr Weekley may be supposed to know his business
  so far as learning goes. The satisfactory thing from the ordinary
  reader’s point of view is that he wears his learning lightly, and
  infuses some welcome humour into his research. ... We want good
  learning popularised, and he has gone the right way to do it.”

       + =Sat R= 122:580 D 16 ‘16 320w

       + =Spec= 118:207 F 17 ‘17 1850w

  “This fascinating book has scholarship and humor to recommend it.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 1850w

  “We simply cannot help reading him.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p546 N 16 ‘16 1250w


=WEEKS, ARLAND DEYETT.= Psychology of citizenship. (National social
science ser.) *50c (2c) McClurg 304 17-10222

  The author says, “This book is a study of the psychology of our
  relations to civic affairs and deals with mental traits affecting the
  quality of citizenship.” The book is made up of brief chapters on:
  Civic demands upon intelligence; Social inertia; The limits of
  attention; Forms of distraction; The effect of machinery upon the
  mind; The spirit of labor; The control of suggestion; Civic publicity
  and the voter; The legal mind; Views of property; A sense of humanity.
  In the last chapter the author makes some observations on the
  psychology of war. He is professor of education in the North Dakota
  agricultural college, and a series of articles contributed to the
  American Journal of Sociology has served as a basis for this book.

         =Am Econ R= 7:429 Je ‘17 50w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:8 O ‘17

  “The student of practical politics will find much to interest him in
  the book, particularly in the chapter which deals with ‘Civic
  publicity and the voter.’”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:160 F ‘18 50w

  “There is one excellent and practical chapter on civic publicity. A
  book which will rouse not only thought but discussion.”

       + =Cleveland= p77 Je ‘17 70w

  “Words of special emphasis would be reserved to commend this small but
  unusually able and attractive book. Professor Weeks has succeeded in
  carrying a message of vital significance, in phrasing it in an
  effective style, and above all in selecting for emphasis the focal
  points of interest to the understanding of the mind of the citizen.
  This is popular psychology directed with skill to problems of daily
  concern.”

       + =Dial= 63:348 O 11 ‘17 220w

         =R of Rs= 56:440 O ‘17 30w

         =St Louis= 15:169 Je ‘17

  “Prof. Weeks’s views, while not all acceptable, should at least
  stimulate social thinking.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 20 ‘17 320w


=WEEKS, RAYMOND.= Ode to France. *50c Oxford 811 17-9132

  “This ode was written during August and September, 1914. The poet
  calls upon the world to rescue France, the ‘land whose deeds of old
  still burn,’ from the hideous shame forced upon her by the Huns.”—R of
  Rs

  “This admirably wrought poem is now being read from the public
  platform and it has moved thousands to greater affection for
  France—affection which has taken practical form in contributions to
  French relief.”

       + =Lit D= 54:1787 Je 9 ‘17 400w

         =R of Rs= 55:660 Je ‘17 30w


=WELD, LOUIS DWIGHT HARVELL.= Marketing of farm products. *$1.50
Macmillan 338 16-1411

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “The reviewer regrets saying so much in seeming dispraise of a book he
  so greatly approves. But the publication of so comprehensive and
  vigorous a study of this important question should be the occasion for
  all students of the problem to make frank and searching examination of
  their ideas upon the subject. Professor Weld has laid some excellent
  foundations. Later writers will be much in his debt and teachers will
  find that he has given them an excellent book for class use. If some
  of us think he is unduly complacent about the existing organization of
  the trade in farm products we may well remember that a large amount of
  public sentiment and local prejudice can be depended upon to exert a
  strong counter-influence.” E. G. Nourse

     + — =J Pol Econ= 25:204 F ‘17 1800w


=WELLMAN, MABEL THACHER.= Food study. il *$1 Little 641 17-2354

  The author, head of the department of home economics in Indiana
  university, has planned this work as a text book for high schools. She
  says, “The work is an attempt to present a manual of definite
  directions which will aid the student in her adventure into the
  subject, but it is by no means intended to supersede the teacher or to
  furnish material which can be taught by one untrained in the subject.”
  In her arrangement of material the author has not followed
  conventional lines. For instance, she has placed her lessons on
  canning and preserving first, because fall, the opening of the school
  year, is the natural time for such work. References for reading and
  Questions follow each chapter.

  “Includes instruction in table manners and on the etiquette of
  entertaining. A distinctive feature is a diagram of a table laid for a
  home dinner.”

       + =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 40w

         =Educ R= 53:430 Ap ‘17 30w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:45 Mr ‘17

  “The housewife desirous of retrenching her expenses will find aid and
  instruction.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:73 Ap 29 ‘17 90w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:319 Ap ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:175 Je ‘17

  “This book seems to have covered the ground pretty thoroughly, and to
  be a source of reliable information gathered from standard works and
  authorities. The class experiments are clear and definite, the summary
  questions and references most comprehensive. But in an attempt to put
  the material together for ‘certain advantages in presentation, as the
  early introduction of such subjects as meals and serving,’ a most
  illogical and confusing plan has been followed.” Catherine Creamer

     + — =School R= 25:300 Ap ‘17 280w

  “A distinct addition to the available secondary-school texts on foods.
  The most valuable contribution is in the excellent quality of the
  subject-matter presented. This material is accurate, well selected,
  and clearly and simply written. It includes explanations of the
  principals of physics, chemistry, and bacteriology that are
  encountered in the preparation of foods as well as general information
  about food materials. This text material is not only well selected,
  but it is presented in such a sequence that there is a gradual
  development of the material adapted to the comprehension and progress
  of the students.” A. R. Hanna

       + =School R= 25:614 O ‘17 240w


=WELLS, CAROLYN.= Baubles. il *$1.25 Dodd 817 17-24883

  This volume contains most of the poems included in “Idle idyls,”
  published by Dodd, Mead & Co. in 1900. Nineteen poems printed in “Idle
  idyls” have been dropped from and twenty-two new poems included in
  “Baubles.” While the new volume, like the old, is pictured by Oliver
  Herford, the thirteen full-page illustrations of “Idle idyls” do not
  appear in the new collection.

  “The sparkle, the whimsicality of her nonsense, has dulled and
  deadened; the satirical lash has become thready, the vigor and snap
  gone when it comes into contact with the object.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 O 10 ‘17 280w


=WELLS, CAROLYN.= Faulkner’s folly. *$1.25 (2½c) Doran

  Eric Stannard, the wealthy successful portrait painter, was found
  murdered in his studio. His dying cry was heard by his guest, Mrs
  Faulkner, as she descended the staircase and at her command the
  footman entered and turned up the lights in the darkened room. The
  artist was seen seated, stabbed by an etching needle and at either
  side of him, fainting with terror and overcome with dread, were his
  wife and his model. Who committed the crime? Roberts, the detective,
  tried in vain to solve the mystery but Alan Ford succeeded.

  “The latest of Carolyn Wells’s detective stories is especially
  baffling.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 D 1 ‘17 320w

  “Cleverly contrived and worked out with ingenuity and ample resource.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:413 O 21 ‘17 500w


=WELLS, CAROLYN.= Mark of Cain. il *$1.35 (1½c) Lippincott 17-7931

  This is another Fleming Stone detective story. A millionaire is
  murdered in Van Cortlandt Park, New York, and circumstances seem to
  point to his nephew Kane Landon, as the murderer. The fortune of the
  murdered man is left to his niece Avice Trowbridge on condition that
  she marry the millionaire’s lawyer and trusted friend, Judge Hoyt. But
  Avice loves Landon and she only consents to marry Judge Hoyt on
  condition that he obtains the freedom of Landon whether the latter is
  innocent or guilty. With the aid of the millionaire’s office boy who
  had done some private detective work and as a consequence had been
  kidnapped and imprisoned in the home of the lawyer who is the real
  murderer, Fleming Stone convicts the lawyer of his guilt, aids thereto
  being the dirk cane and the shoes worn at the time of the murder which
  he had left as evidence in his house.

  “A crude thriller. It is carelessly written, with no skill in
  characterization or plot; its ingenuity is not above that inspiring
  the Sunday ‘feature story’; its humor is of the same quality as the
  ‘comic’ sheet and where the author would be exciting she is only
  lurid. It is shoddy.”

       — =Dial= 62:484 My 31 ‘17 120w

  “Although the solution of the mystery is not very plausible, and the
  reader who chances to be possessed of any degree of astuteness will
  have identified the murderer long before Fleming Stone appears upon
  the scene, the story holds one’s attention fairly well, and is not
  without ingenuity.”

         =N Y Times= 22:74 Mr 4 ‘17 250w

  “While the story is conventional of its kind, it is diverting.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Mr 25 ‘17 130w


=WELLS, CLIFFORD ALMON.= From Montreal to Vimy Ridge and beyond; ed. by
O. C: S. Wallace. il *$1.35 (2c) Doran 940.91 17-29626

  A series of letters written by a young Canadian officer to his mother
  and other members of his family, between November, 1915 and April,
  1917. The mother died shortly after receiving news of her son’s death,
  so this book, edited by the writer’s stepfather, is a memorial to them
  both. The editor says, “To have used a heavy hand upon those letters,
  cutting out personal allusions, and the expression of opinion and
  criticisms which later might have been modified, would have been to
  rob them of much of their piquancy and human quality. That is why they
  are published as they were written.”

  “There is as little personal animosity toward the enemy as in any of
  the accounts from the men who are doing the work. War is accepted, but
  it is recognized for what it is, a not very pleasant or glorious
  affair. The book is interesting for its revelation of the interests
  and the daily life of the soldier in action.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 22 ‘17 260w

  “It has the quality of letters written to some one beloved, a touching
  and beautiful quality.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:546 D 9 ‘17 220w


=WELLS, FREDERIC DE WITT.= Man in court. *$1.50 (4c) Putnam 347 17-11929

  The author is a justice of the municipal court of New York city and in
  this book he presents a series of sketches showing the actual
  procedure in a court of law. He explains the origin of many customs,
  and justifies some of the seeming injustices of court procedure, but,
  on the other hand, he shows how unsuited many practices are to modern
  conditions. A complete revision of the system is outlined in the final
  chapter in the form of a “look backward” from the year 1947.

  “The humor is somewhat labored, but the explanations clear.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:114 Ja ‘18

  “The author unobtrusively reveals intimate experience with human
  beings, depth of psychological insight, broad sympathy, healthful
  humor; a desire for, a belief in, and a capability of bringing nearer,
  better things to come.” W. S. McNeill

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:592 Ag ‘17 200w

  “The present author in knowledge of the subject is well fitted for his
  task. Unfortunately for so sincere and sane a work, the style lacks
  grace, and the argument drags at times. That the facts are interesting
  for all that, is no small tribute to the author.”

     + — =Dial= 63:114 Ag 16 ‘17 230w

       + =Lit D= 55:52 D 1 ‘17 110w

  “If the author’s experience as a lawyer and a judge has induced the
  belief that our judicial system is a farce, it is easy to understand
  why he has published this volume. Such a system deserves the fate
  ascribed to it in the closing chapter. A careful study of this
  chapter, however, will lead most readers to the conclusion that the
  book is intended as a mere burlesque. Were the serious and sensible
  parts of the volume separated from the satirical, their publication
  would serve a useful purpose.”

     – + =Nation= 105:229 Ag 30 ‘17 500w

       + =N Y Br Lib News= 4:87 Je ‘17 60w

       + =N Y Times= 22:201 My 20 ‘17 50w

  “It would be well if more men of experience in responsible positions
  would write as frankly and good-humoredly concerning what they know
  best as Judge Wells has written about the courts. A book so tolerant
  and witty as this should have no little effect in promoting that good
  understanding between all parties that is most favorable to wise
  reform.”

       + =No Am= 205:807 My ‘17 750w

         =Outlook= 115:761 Ap 25 ‘17 30w

  “The business man sees great extravagance and waste of time in our
  courts of justice. Judge Wells admits the force of the criticism. In
  fact, he makes a better statement of the case than the business man
  himself could make, because he is in closer touch with the facts. At
  the same time the practising lawyer’s viewpoint is clearly understood
  by Judge Wells, and throughout the book he takes pains to present the
  lawyer’s side intelligently and sympathetically.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:669 Je ‘17 300w

  “While the book is intended for the uninitiated, it is mighty useful
  reading for the average social worker, even those who are familiar
  with court procedure.” R. N. Baldwin

       + =Survey= 38:361 Jl 21 ‘17 170w


=WELLS, FREDERIC LYMAN.= Mental adjustments. il *$2.50 Appleton 130
17-16338

  “Believing dynamic psychology, describing the conduct of mind from the
  standpoint of its adjustment to the world we live in, to be ‘the most
  truly cultural study,’ Frederic Lyman Wells of McLean hospital,
  Waverley, Mass., presents a large series of observations from normal
  psychology, psychopathology and anthropology. ... The preliminary
  discussion of mental adaptation is followed by chapters on use and
  waste in thought and conduct, symbolic association, the continuity of
  emotion, types of dissociation, mechanisms in dissociated ideas,
  experimental approaches and balancing factors. ... Dr Wells’s book is
  the fourth in the Conduct of mind series edited by Prof. Joseph
  Jastrow of the University of Wisconsin, who provides an introduction
  to the present volume.”—Springf’d Republican

  “Any added insight into individual behavior clarifies social
  phenomena. Economic unrest, the rebellion of women against their
  ‘place,’ divorce, crime, prostitution, and insanity are all more fully
  comprehensible by reason of this book. On this basis it is permissible
  to classify the volume among the significant contributions to social
  psychology.” L. S. Hollingworth

       + =Am J Soc= 23:545 Ja ‘18 450w

  “Dr Wells’s scheme is simple, though the details are far from
  clear. ... To speak of human motives in terms of physical forces has
  doubtless a pragmatic value; it is one of those devices common in
  supposedly scientific psychology. ... As applied to obsessions of the
  neurotic and insane it has a certain plausibility. But ... it is
  surely too much to ask that all of our views of life be based upon the
  external observation of minds confused and darkened.”

       — =Nation= 105:154 Ag 9 ‘17 470w

  “The discussion of ‘Types of dissociation’ is more clearly systematic
  than most of the rest of the book and is a valuable survey for the
  student, although perhaps somewhat heavily loaded with varieties and
  subvarieties for those readers who have but little concrete
  experience. ... Wells does, however, make it clear that the normal and
  the abnormal are made of much the same material, and his book, with
  its softened rendering of Freudian conceptions, will be a stimulus and
  a help along sane and useful lines.” Adolf Meyer

     + — =Science= n s 46:587 D 14 ‘17 1000w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 26 ‘17 430w


=WELLS, HERBERT GEORGE.= God, the invisible king. *$1.25 (3c) Macmillan
201 17-13406

  The conception of God outlined in this book is essentially Wellsian.
  Yet Mr Wells writes in the belief that a new religion has already
  dawned on the world and that its followers are many, and without doubt
  there will be numbers of men and women outside the orthodox faiths who
  will find in his analysis much that corresponds to their own half
  formulated creeds. This new religion has no prophet or founder. It has
  no theory of the creation of the universe. It is purely empirical.
  “Modern religion bases its knowledge of God and its account of God
  entirely upon experience. It has encountered God. ... To find God is
  but the beginning of wisdom, because then for all our days we have to
  learn his purpose with us and to live our lives with him.” Mr Wells’s
  religion bears no relation to Christianity. It seems to be the
  negation of Christianity. “We of the new faith repudiate the teaching
  of non-resistance. We are the militant followers of and participators
  in a militant God. We can appreciate and admire the greatness of
  Christ, this gentle being upon whose nobility the theologians trade.
  But submission is the remotest quality of all from our God, and a
  moribund figure is the completest inversion of his likeness as we know
  him.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:426 Jl ‘17

         =Ath= p303 Je ‘17 100w

  “‘God, the invisible king,’ may be poor theology—it is—but it is real
  religion. Anybody can make fun out of the design of the vase in which
  this chrism of testimony is conveyed. But it seems to us that there
  should be joy among the angels of God for this novelist doing
  reverence to the ultimate reality.”

     + — =Ath= p346 Jl ‘17 230w

  “Mr Wells rambles on and on, offering us always something to
  entertain, but scarcely anything to convince us of the certainties of
  religion. He blunders now and then, as when he speaks of atheism and
  agnosticism as synonymous, and he leaves us at the end exactly where
  we were at the beginning.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 16 ‘17 1550w

  “When one has finished reading this vague philosophy, one wonders if
  this feeble attempt of the perplexed, harassed Wells may prove a
  stepping-stone to true religion.”

       — =Cath World= 105:832 S ‘17 250w

  “Not only does Wells fail to content me with this report of the
  thoughts and things of my generation, but he seems to be ignorant of
  thoughts that were commonplace a generation ago. Oddly enough, he is
  not in the forefront of thought but is behind the times.” J: Macy

       — =Dial= 63:13 Je 28 ‘17 2250w

  “So far as Mr Wells confines himself to relating his own religious
  experience I treat every word he says with the profoundest respect,
  for I am certain that he is sincere. As a personal confession his book
  is a religious document of great value. But when the modern religion
  begins, through its mouthpiece, Mr Wells, to relate things about other
  religions, we have the right to be on our guard. The modern religion
  will have to be more correct, as well as more polite, in relating
  things about other religions, before the world will be willing to give
  due weight to what it relates about itself. Mr Wells has written a
  very provocative book about the least provocative of subjects—God. It
  is a tremendous theme, and the time is ripe for its reception.” L. P.
  Jacks

     + — =Hibbert J= 15:683 Jl ‘17 4400w

  “Surely if the faith of Mr Wells is somewhat too narrow, if it
  includes too few articles of belief, it is exceptionally clear and
  profound in regard to what he does hold true.”

       + =Ind= 90:434 Je 2 ‘17 700w

  “There is not a grain of humility in this new apostle. Standing in the
  midst of ‘Mars’ hill,’ he offers us now a copy of ‘God the invisible
  king,’ saying in effect: ‘Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him
  declare I unto you.’ ... The fine and sound things in this book we
  have not much emphasized: exhortations to repentance, consecration,
  self-sacrifice, labor for the kingdom of God on earth. Mr Wells’s
  impression that they are new is as ‘curious’ as the modernity of
  Christ. They may be heard in any orthodox pulpit in the course of a
  month’s sermons—with due credit given for their origination. It is
  better for Mr Wells to think of them as of his own confection than for
  him not to think of them at all; but as a matter of fact the chief
  contributive element in his testament is his peculiarly sanguine and
  mellifluous, egotism and insolence. Why can he not occasionally
  acknowledge that an idea may be true and useful even though it has
  always been recognized as such?”

     – + =Nation= 104:710 Je 14 ‘17 1400w

  “Mr Wells’ God suffers inevitably from the limitations (manifest and
  obscure) of its creator. The God invented by him is in reality a
  sublimated and delicately disembodied, a finely spiritualized Mr
  Wells.” Sam Schmalhausen

       — =N Y Call= p15 S 2 ‘17 1700w

  “A sane, thoughtful, reasonable expression of a religion of the
  future, so different from the religions of the past that in many
  instances, it is difficult to find the points of contact of the new
  and the old.” Blanche Watson

     + — =N Y Call= p14 S 16 ‘17 1350w

  Reviewed by Sam Schmalhausen

       — =N Y Call= p15 S 23 ‘17 800w

  “Written with the sincerity and simplicity of utter conviction. ... In
  precision of idea and clarity of statement, in keenness of insight and
  closely argued presentation it shows Mr Wells at his best.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:185 My 13 ‘17 2500w

  Reviewed by Lawrence Gilman

         =No Am= 206:123 Jl ‘17 3100w

  “Mr Wells writes too much. He is not always sane in his judgments. He
  sometimes gives an impression of sensationalism. But he is always
  frank and, we believe, always sincere. ... The value of his book lies,
  not in its solution of religious problems, but in its recognition of
  the reality of religious problems and in its provocation to real and
  untrammeled religious thinking.”

         =Outlook= 116:305 Je 20 ‘17 100w

  Reviewed by Lyman Abbott

         =Outlook= 116:398 Jl 11 ‘17 2600w

         =Pratt= p8 O ‘17 40w

  “With much iconoclastic fury he denounces Christianity and all its
  doctrines, revelling especially in those bitter asperities which have
  been the unfortunate accompaniment of religious controversy in all
  ages, but with an added modern vulgarity that is all his own.”

       — =Sat R= 123:sup3 My 19 ‘17 1250w

  “He has felt obliged to devote the greater part of his space to an
  attack upon other explorers in the same region; and here defect of
  knowledge and defect of sympathy have resulted in much unintentional
  false-witness and many deplorable lapses into bad taste. This we
  regret, because what Mr Wells has to say about his own religious
  experience might reach and profit many persons who are prejudiced
  against the writings of professional divines; but such people
  instinctively flee from theological hatred. It is specially to be
  hoped that before the next book comes out, Mr Wells will make himself
  acquainted with the view of the Old Testament held to-day in the
  Christian church.”

     – + =Spec= 118:674 Je 16 ‘17 1450w

  “The book delivers its message through the medium of a violent polemic
  against the Christian creed. The polemic is so inaccurate in
  historical statement that it helps rather than demolishes the things
  it attacks. Although the book is hastily and crudely done, it is not
  without significance. It is the record of experience, whether real or
  imaginary, an unfolding of how one who ardently disliked Christianity
  and all its teachings came, through the mind’s shifting to a deeper
  level to accept most of its tenets under a different name and in
  different terms.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 3 ‘17 450w

  “The great interest of his book consists in the reality and intensity
  of his effort to combine his own religious experience with a
  consistently biological conception of the universe. The effort fails,
  we think, but in its reality and intensity it reveals truth.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p229 My 17 ‘17 4400W


=WELLS, HERBERT GEORGE.= Italy, France and Britain at war. *$1.50 (2½c)
Macmillan 940.91 17-5137

  “One of the minor peculiarities of this unprecedented war is the tour
  of the front,” says Mr. Wells. His own taste of the experience came in
  1916, after repeated refusals. Mr Wells didn’t want to go, but having
  gone he writes of the experience with characteristic frankness. He had
  been seeing the war as “something purposeful and epic.” He came back
  from the front with a revised view. “If I were to be tied down to one
  word for my impression of this war, I should say that this war is
  ‘Queer.’ It is not like anything in a really waking world, but like
  something in a dream. It hasn’t exactly that clearness of light
  against darkness or good against ill. But it has the quality of
  wholesome instinct struggling under a nightmare.” The book consists of
  three parts: The war in Italy (August, 1916): The western war
  (September, 1916); How people think about the war.

  “Sane, philosophic and practical.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:310 Ap ‘17

  Reviewed by F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 45:184 Ap ‘17 500w

         =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 7 ‘17 1000w

  “For the rest, Mr Wells exhibits the old passionateness and the old
  incapacity to understand anybody who holds opinions different from his
  present ones. Particularly blind is his discussion of the yielding
  pacifist and the conscientious objector, and particularly
  unintelligent his discussion of the ‘religious revival.’”

     + — =Dial= 62:445 My 17 ‘17 300w

       + =Ind= 90:35 Ap 2 ‘17 370w

  “We find the first half of his story, dealing with actualities on the
  Italian and French fronts, in its remarkable exhibition of a gift for
  observation and vivid portrayal much more convincing than his comments
  on the psychological reactions of the belligerent nations to the war,
  or his own generalizations from the specific facts of modern combat.”

         =Nation= 104:661 My 31 ‘17 350w

  “No man, I think, has actually gone to the war, looked it so honestly
  in the face and brought back so much insight and wide-ranging
  practical speculation. ... The real genius of this book is that the
  immensity of what Mr Wells saw on his visit to the front set his mind
  working instead of striking it dumb. ... There is a phrase in this
  book which represents a piece of very great perception. Mr Wells
  speaks of the demilitarization of war. Some of us had already grasped
  the fact vaguely that there must be industrial back of military
  preparedness. We visualized it as ‘back of.’ But what the war on the
  west front seems to show is an irresistible industrialization of army
  management itself.” W. L.

       + =New Repub= 10:201 Mr 17 ‘17 850w

  “Toward the end of the volume Mr Wells discusses the relation of this
  country to the war with, in some parts of it, keener insight and
  understanding than one often finds in any utterance from the other
  side of the Atlantic. But even he only dimly comprehends the purpose
  and meaning of the American policy.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:45 F 11 ‘17 700w

  “The author gives us such pictures of the mountain warfare waged by
  the Italians and of the actual conditions of trench fighting in
  France, as we have had from no other source.”

       + =No Am= 205:627 Ap ‘17 800w

  “We need not agree with all this to be interested by it. We wish we
  had room to quote the very remarkable analysis of the evolution of
  methods of attack. ... This analysis comes in the chapter called ‘The
  grades of war,’ and is the most acute thing we have read on the
  subject.”

       + =Spec= 118:302 Mr 10 ‘17 1200w

  “The most valuable part of the book is probably the third section,
  ‘How people think about the war.’”

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ap 17 ‘17 700w

  “Stimulating as his views are, they would have carried more weight had
  there been some more recognizable relation underlying them. ... He
  carries us with him in many of his generalizations; but we part
  company with him when he affirms that the military expert is ‘a man
  trained to think of war as essentially an affair of cavalry, infantry
  in formation, and field guns,’ the implication being that it is only
  the civilian who understands modern strategy and its mechanical
  problems. ... If we understand Mr Wells rightly, the materials we
  should build with are laymen, democracy, and individual initiative;
  for his binding material he seems to be looking to mysticism.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p89 F 22 ‘17 1150w


=WELLS, HERBERT GEORGE.= Soul of a bishop. il *$1.50 (2c) Macmillan
17-24100

  We are introduced to the Bishop of Princhester, who has led a happy
  married life and whose London incumbency has brought nothing to
  disturb his conventional faith, just as he had settled in the
  industrial town of Princhester and, for the first time in his life, is
  “really in doubt about himself, about his way of living, about all his
  persuasions.” He realizes that the world is “extravagantly out of
  hand,” and that the church is “a tolerated thing”—a failure. This
  reacts upon him physically until he develops insomnia. The outbreak of
  the war steadies him temporarily, but he soon grows worse and goes to
  Dr Dale, who gives him a drug not in the pharmacopœia, the effect of
  which is to make him feel braced and uplifted, and to view life
  differently. Then comes his first vision when he talks with an angel
  and sees God. A second draught of the tonic brings a second vision, in
  which the angel shows him “certain signs of the coming of God.”
  Meantime, after a confirmation service where he speaks of his new
  faith, which is essentially that developed in “God, the invisible
  king,” he leaves the church and goes, with his family, into cramped
  quarters in London. Lady Sunderbund, an impossible American, tries to
  build him a temple, but he has come to feel that there can be “no
  specialized ministers of the one true God” and though tempted for a
  while to take, for the sake of his family, the salary offered by Lady
  Sunderbund, a third vision shows him that he must put God before his
  wife and children, and he decides that he cannot be “a professional
  religious man,” but must “write and talk as he can” of his [to him]
  new creed: “I believe in God, I believe in the immediate presence of
  God in every human life, I believe that our lives have to serve the
  kingdom of God.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:99 D ‘17

  “The lucidity of style characteristic of the creator of ‘Mr Britling’
  is displayed to the full in the present story.”

       + =Ath= p529 O ‘17 140w

  “However ineffectual his bishop may be, however vague and egotistical
  the Wellsian programme for a reborn world, we cannot doubt the sincere
  impulse of faith behind it.” H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 46:338 N ‘17 70w

  “Mr Wells’s new consciousness of a spiritual force working in and for
  humanity is touchingly sincere; his belief that it is a new force is
  touchingly ingenuous. What he does not suspect, probably, is that his
  latest story is only a modification of all his other stories of
  protest, that his organised religion is only another convention to be
  done for; that his Bishop Scrope is merely another amiable little Mr
  Polly, born anew, this time, in the throes of a spiritual instead of a
  bodily indigestion; and that his new deity is simply an apotheosis of
  that eager, searching, dogmatic, well-disposed and unpractical
  personality, Mr H. G. Wells.” H. W. Boynton

     – + =Bookm= 46:353 N ‘17 1150w

  “Mr Wells’s descriptions of the bishop’s home and family lure the
  reader onward over his dreary passages of topsy-turvy Christianity,
  but he fails entirely when he offers us page after page of
  conversation in which Lady Sunderbund talks the most arrant nonsense
  and mangles the English language by omitting the letter r from every
  word she utters. ... We doubt if ‘The soul of a bishop’ will convince
  anybody, for it will disappoint both those who seek in it a novel and
  those who are looking for a sensible outlook into modern religion.” E.
  F. E.

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 S 12 ‘17 1350w

  “Mr Wells falls into the special error of his time and his school of
  thought—he identifies the mental with the spiritual. It is the
  workings of Scrope’s mind, not his soul, that we follow.”

       — =Cath World= 106:695 F ‘18 350w

  “Mr Wells has not only delivered a message of high inspiration, but
  has striven painstakingly to make the value of that message clear to
  all minds not sealed in with stupidity or intellectual arrogance.”

     + — =Dial= 63:402 O 25 ‘17 700w

  “So far as its ideas are concerned, one would date it at about 1889,
  the year following the publication of ‘Robert Elsmere’; Mr Wells, one
  would say, is beginning to catch up with his ‘Victorians.’ Taken in
  connection with its two popular predecessors, however, it has still
  some contemporary reference.”

       — =Nation= 105:401 O 11 ‘17 1300w

  “‘The soul of a bishop,’ interesting as an exhibit, is of little
  account as a novel because it has nothing to do with a bishop or a
  soul. It merely presents the lively spectacle of a Mr Polly, or a Mr
  Britling, or a Mr Wells (what’s in a name?) waking to find himself
  attired in apron and gaiters, and making haste to get rid of them.” H.
  W. Boynton

       — =Nation= 105:599 N 29 ‘17 200w

  “The theme is handled by Mr Wells like a virtuoso. ... The bishop is a
  bleak creature, largely because Mr Wells invented him to fulfil a
  fictional purpose. Characterized with amazing cleverness, he is still
  essentially a bobbin on whom the religious thread is wound. The
  cordiality, the rushing sympathy and kindness and fellowship that
  religious men in Russian novels express in every relation, have no
  place in this egoist’s religious escape from neurasthenia.” F. H.

     – + =New Repub= 12:223 S 22 ‘17 3150w

  “Wells’ invariable craftsmanship is evident here, which gives life to
  an otherwise heavy theme. His conclusion can only be regarded by
  followers of the mental catalysis of this novelist as a further
  reaction.” Clement Wood

     – + =N Y Call= p15 D 29 ‘17 260w

  “It is rather a pity that a man who can tell so good a story as Mr
  Wells should allow himself to be ridden so hard by an idea. ... The
  marvel is that Mr Wells, with his ingenuity, skill, and sense of
  reality, should have used a means so theatric and so suggestive of the
  burlesque as a hashish trance to free the soul and stiffen the
  conscience of his hero. ... Equally repugnant to the sense of reality
  is a certain Lady Sunderbund, a gay and glittering, weird and
  wonderful piece of stage property. Never before has Mr Wells created
  anything in the human image quite so theatric, absurd, and impossible.
  Some one refers to her once as an American, and, judging by the
  marvelous dialect Mr Wells puts into her mouth, he meant such to be
  her nativity.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:341 S 16 ‘17 1550w

  “In ‘God, the invisible king’ he made a rhapsodic tract out of the
  essential philosophy of ‘Mr Britling sees it through.’ Now he has
  dramatized the tract, and in ‘The soul of a bishop,’ offers us ‘God,
  the invisible king’ in the shape of a fable addressed to the
  capacities of those who may have found the earlier exposition too
  unremittingly theological for comfortable digestion.” Lawrence Gilman

     – + =No Am= 206:786 N ‘17 3100w

  “The character of the bishop is wrought out with the author’s finest
  skill.”

     + — =Outlook= 117:219 O 10 ‘17 180w

  “A brief, uncomplicated but very trenchant and stimulating bit of
  prose fiction—Wells in his newest vein at his best.” F. R.

       + =Pub W= 92:802 S 15 ‘17 500w

  “We do not propose to discuss Mr Wells’s thesis; a large part of what
  he says has been for years a commonplace with educated people of all
  classes; but we may be allowed to remark on the workmanship of the
  book. Why did Mr Wells take as a subject the religious experiences of
  a devout member of the Church of England, a Bishop, too, when he
  obviously is unable to imagine the way in which the outward
  observances and daily duties and privileges of its communion mould the
  inner life and transform the experience of the Christian?”

       — =Sat R= 124:228 S 22 ‘17 1150w

  “The book has no psychological interest as a study in religious
  development. There is much more in it about the Bishop’s nerves than
  about his soul. Mr Wells gives us a very human picture of the home
  life at the Palace. There is an amusing caricature of the sentimental
  neophyte, a wealthy American widow. The reactions of this emotional
  lady on the Bishop’s family form the most natural element in the
  book.”

     – + =Spec= 119:451 O 27 ‘17 1050w

  “Mr Wells pretends to analyze the bishop’s soul minutely; but in so
  doing he does not scruple to resort to the most blatant
  artificialities. ... His sarcasm is biting; and his indictment of the
  church’s failure to live up to its opportunities, and, indeed to its
  fundamental purposes, is in many ways forceful.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 650w

  “Right or wrong, profound or shallow, the book is interesting, and in
  nothing perhaps more interesting than in its showing of the difference
  that has been made by the war and its implied forecast of the social
  and religious life that is to follow the war.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p438 S 13 ‘17 870w


=WELLS, WARRE B., and MARLOW, N.= History of the Irish rebellion of
1916. *$2.50 Stokes 941.5 17-707

  “‘A history of the Irish rebellion of 1916’ is a practical and prosaic
  book, the work of men who wrote rather because the historical task
  appealed to them than because they found in the insurrection an
  attractive theme. It is stated that their purpose has been, in
  addition to narrating the events of the rebellion and showing their
  connection with the European war, to portray without criticism the
  conflicting ideals in present-day Ireland. ... The events leading up
  to the rising, the formation of the various patriotic societies and
  volunteer armies, the three-cornered debates about home rule, the long
  and complicated negotiations with England, the early experiences of
  the leaders of the rebellion, these things are stated. ... A valuable
  feature of the book is the appendix, containing the report of the
  Royal commission on the rebellion in Ireland, the military dispatches
  sent by Field Marshal French to the secretary of state for war, and
  from General Maxwell to Field Marshal French and to the secretary of
  state for war, and Roger Casement’s speech from the dock.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 14:91 D ‘17

  “Valuable chiefly as a detailed contemporary record of incidents and
  events.”

       + =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 30w

  “It is apparent that the authors are not in sympathy with the ideals
  and methods of the Irish revolutionary leaders, and this fact causes
  them now and then to indulge in editorial comments of a somewhat
  cynical kind, out of harmony with the general nonpartisan historical
  attitude they assume.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:262 Jl 15 ‘17 520w

  “An accurate and comprehensive account.”

       + =Pratt= p43 O ‘17 20w


=WELSH, JAMES C.= Songs of a miner. *2s 6d Herbert Jenkins, London 821

  “The author of these poems worked for twenty-four years as a miner;
  his verses were written at odd times during these years.”—N Y Call

         =Ath= p362 Jl ‘17 160w

  “Those pieces treating of his work are the least effective of the
  book. ... It is not labor speaking in terms of itself; it is labor
  speaking in terms of book-poetry. ... The songs are often melodious,
  but none is of the first rank.” Clement Wood

     – + =N Y Call= p15 Jl 29 ‘17 410w

  “‘The crusade of youth,’ which opens the book, is an ambitious poem in
  heroics, which does indeed show that Mr Welsh has a glow of
  imagination, a rich vocabulary, and a fine sense of cadence. But it is
  a literary exercise such as many have attempted before him; and it is
  sometimes grandiose and tricked out with unnecessary ornament. On the
  other hand, when he comes closer to earth and touches the realities of
  his life, as in ‘Labour’ and ‘The miner,’ he is apt to be prosaic and
  a trifle ‘Hyde-parky.’ ... He is really most successful in such
  touching little poems as ‘To a dead comrade’ and ‘To my wife,’ or in
  some of the Scottish dialect pieces.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p299 Je 21 ‘17 200w


=WEST, ANDREW FLEMING=, ed.[2] Value of the classics. *$1 Princeton
univ. press 375 17-28345

  “Once in a while, protest is uttered against excessive intellectual
  modernism. Such a protest is uttered in a collection of addresses and
  papers entitled ‘Value of the classics.’ It presents the addresses
  delivered at the Conference on classical studies in liberal education
  held at Princeton last year, together with an introduction by Andrew
  F. West, dean of the graduate school of Princeton university, and a
  series of brief statements upon the subject from lawyers, clergymen,
  physicians, editors, educators, and men in other walks of life. Among
  those who delivered the addresses recorded in the volume are President
  John Grier Hibben of Princeton university, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge,
  Dean Roscoe Pound of the Harvard law school, and Professor Lewellys F.
  Barker of Johns Hopkins.”—Boston Transcript

         =Boston Transcript= p8 O 20 ‘17 490w

  “The conference and this volume have done a great service for our
  cause. In these times, when classical teachers are so often called
  upon to give a reason for their existence, it is a fine thing to have
  ready at hand these manifold arguments and opinions. It is a book
  which no one of us can afford to be without.” M. N. W.

       + =Class J= 13:302 Ja ‘18 430w

  “This volume is one not only to read but to ponder. It administers
  with artistic skill and completeness a body-blow to much of the crude
  and noisy theorizing about education that has lately been so much to
  the fore in this country.”

       + =Educ R= 54:527 D ‘17 330w

         =N Y Times= 22:477 N 18 ‘17 460w


=WESTERGAARD, WALDEMAR CHRISTIAN.= Danish West Indies under company rule
(1671-1754) with a supplementary chapter, 1755-1917; with an introd. by
H. Morse Stephens. il *$3 Macmillan 972.9 17-16559

  Dr Westergaard is the son of a Danish family which emigrated to North
  Dakota and he is at present assistant professor of history at Pomona
  college, California. “Dr Westergaard tells the story of the settlement
  and administration of the Danish West Indies from 1671 to 1754, and in
  a supplementary chapter gives briefly their history from the middle of
  the eighteenth century to 1917, the date of their purchase by the
  United States. The historical perspective embraces European colonial
  expansion in the West Indies, covers the great romance of trade in St
  John, St Croix and St Thomas, dealings with pirates, the growth of
  agriculture, and the success of the island plantations in the days
  when ‘sugar was king.’ There is much about the slave trade and its
  attendant abuses and accounts of the insurrections of the negroes.” (R
  of Rs) The book has a ten-page bibliography.

  “Among the most valuable chapters are those dealing with the economic
  life of the colony. The experiments with indigo and cotton, the export
  of valuable woods, the rise of the sugar-cane industry which,
  especially when war conditions made the prices for the staple rise,
  gave the islands their boom periods, all furnish interesting contrasts
  and parallels for students of the history of other West Indian
  colonies.” C. L. Jones

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:132 F ‘18 450w

  “Dr Westergaard brings every element of knowledge, scientific training
  and personal sympathy necessary to the task he has set himself. And
  furthermore, he evidently possesses literary ability sufficient to
  remove his book from the class of dry reference works for library
  shelves, and to put it into a class of books that are not only
  commended, but really read. He has given us a work of serious and
  lasting value. The bibliography is of unusual value from the comments
  attached to each source of reference quoted.” G. I. Colbron

       + =Bookm= 46:211 O ‘17 1250w

  “A valuable addition to Americana.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 O 13 ‘17 380w

  “Prof. Westergaard began his work on some letters found in the
  Bancroft collection of the University of California and then went to
  Denmark and dug up the original records of the Danish West India and
  Guinea company, which no previous historian had touched. This fine
  piece of original investigation is too solidly packed with facts and
  figures to attract the general reader. But the volume is full of
  interesting and novel information.”

       + =Ind= 92:192 O 27 ‘17 430w

         =Lit D= 55:40 N 17 ‘17 260w

  “A feature of Dr Westergaard’s book, which should be of high value to
  the student, is a series of twenty-one appendices, wherein are given
  statistics, lists of governors and shareholders in the various
  companies, transcripts of the charters, financial statements, and
  other rare information derived from the Danish archives and now first
  made accessible to the general public. ... Two additional volumes are
  promised.”

 *       =N Y Times= 22:273 Jl 22 ‘17 1400w

       + =Outlook= 116:592 Ag 15 ‘17 80w

         =Pratt= p44 O ‘17

  “A brilliant piece of historical writing, particularly significant to
  students of American history.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:328 S ‘17 280w

         =St Louis= 15:377 O ‘17 20w

  “An elaborate and profound (the criticism might be made that there is
  a little bit too much of it!) historical work based on the Danish
  royal archives. ... Not the least interesting part of the book is the
  chapter devoted to the unsuccessful attempts by Prussians to colonize
  in the West Indies under the auspices of the grand elector of
  Brandenburg.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 S 13 ‘17 450w

  “It is very fortunate that Professor Westergaard has been able to
  place in the hands of the public an exhaustive and authoritative
  history of these islands from the beginning to the day of their
  transfer. His work is written in a clear and vigorous style, and is a
  valuable contribution to American historical literature. It is based
  on rich source material, and bears throughout the character of exact
  scholarship.” Knut Gjerset

       + =Yale R= n s 7:446 Ja ‘18 1200w


=WESTERVELT, WILLIAM DRAKE=, comp. and tr. Hawaiian legends of volcanoes
(mythology). il *$1 (4c) Ellis 398.2 16-24113

  The author is doing original research work in collecting and
  translating Hawaiian folk legends. This is the third volume resulting
  from his labors in this field. The legends associated with volcanoes
  which he brings together are excellent examples of primitive attempts
  to explain and interpret natural phenomena. T. A. Jaggar, jr., of the
  staff of the Hawaiian volcano observatory, contributes a foreword to
  the book, and at the close the author adds further information about
  the geologic history of the islands.

       + =Nature= 99:144 Ap 19 ‘17 200w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:27 F ‘17

  “William Drake Westervelt of Honolulu has added another to the
  valuable books containing those Hawaiian myths and folk tales that he
  has been so indefatigable in collecting and translating. He has
  rendered an inestimable service to science, for, largely through his
  efforts, we are promised a mythology of this part of the Polynesian
  race equaled in completeness by the known mythology of few primitive
  peoples.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 1 ‘17 400w

  “This very pleasant little volume is illustrated with reproductions
  from photographs of the volcanoes of many lands; and there is one
  beautiful reproduction in colour of the hibiscus flower.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p113 Mr 8 ‘17 500w


=WESTON, GEORGE.= Oh, Mary, be careful! il *$1 (4c) Lippincott 17-26265

  Aunt Myra knew all about men, the creatures! For she had been jilted
  by one of them in her youth. She had learned her lesson well, but to
  make it more impressive to other foolish and trusting women, she had
  collected every bit of evidence she could find in the newspapers. Her
  findings filled many large scrap books. These, together with her
  house, property and her fortune, she passed on to her niece Mary, with
  the condition that the girl should never marry. Mary, however, had
  some doubts as to Aunt Myra’s wisdom in the matter of men. She wanted
  to find out for herself. And as Aunt Myra had provided her with three
  practical tests, she knew how to go about it. The outcome is the theme
  of this story.

  “The story is light but will be popular. Appeared in Ladies’ Home
  Journal.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:317 Ap ‘17

  “Mr Weston has the faculty of adding just enough charm of style to his
  ephemeral plot to make the story amusing.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 Mr 7 ‘17 180w

  “It is what the publishers quite appropriately term ‘a sweet story.’”

         =Dial= 62:147 F 22 ‘17 110w

  “A literary bonbon.”

         =Ind= 90:87 Ap 7 ‘17 30w

       + =Lit D= 54:1855 Je 16 ‘17 180w

  “Another contribution to the already abundant supply of heavily
  sugared, whipped-cream fiction. ... The author has made a determined
  effort to write in a light and amusing manner.”

         =N Y Times= 22:122 Ap 1 ‘17 150w

  Reviewed by Joseph Mosher

       + =Pub W= 91:583 F 17 ‘17 400w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Mr 18 ‘17 250w


=WEYL, WALTER EDWARD.= American world policies. *$2.25 (2½c) Macmillan
327.73 17-6653

  The war has destroyed American isolation. A new policy must be
  adopted. Shall it be nationalistic imperialism or internationalism? As
  the author sees it this is the choice offered. Part 1, Our idealistic
  past, is a discussion of the forces that have shaped our policies and
  ideals in the past. Part 2, The root of imperialism, is a study of
  industrial competition, the fight for world trade and the economic
  background of war generally. Part 3, Towards economic
  internationalism, offers a definition of dynamic pacifism and
  discusses some of the difficulties that must be faced if the second
  course is adopted. Today the nation stands in a position to contribute
  to the political progress of the world, says the author: “Either it
  can cling hopelessly to the last vestiges of its policy of isolation
  or can launch out into imperialistic ventures, or finally it can
  promote, as can no other nation, a policy of internationalism, which
  will bind together the nations in a union of mutual interest, and will
  hasten the peaceful progress of the economic and political integration
  of the world.”

  “Of the many valuable books produced by the world-war there is perhaps
  none so admirably suited to the needs of the American public as this
  very able and readable volume by Dr Weyl. While the writer finds
  reason to believe that eventually the world may be organized for
  peace, his belief is not based on a blind optimism, nor does he seek
  to evade the gigantic problems of world-statesmanship that must be
  solved. His presentation of these questions in such a way as to
  challenge further interest and effort rather than to overcome the
  reader with dismay, is one of the distinct accomplishments of the
  book.” A. B. Hall

       + =Am J Soc= 23:256 S ‘17 750w

  “A thoughtful and thought provoking presentation so concisely and
  clearly written as to be popular with readers having an interest in
  such subjects.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:430 Jl ‘17

  “A critical, dispassionate, patriotic study of the fundamental
  economic, political, and social factors of which American policy must
  take account and from which it must spring. Mr Weyl’s grasp of the
  complex elements of the situation is admirable; unlike too many
  so-called students he studies the United States in the light of
  international relationships, of European history as understood in
  Europe, instead of dealing with international complexities on the
  basis of a history of American diplomacy unconsciously founded upon
  the fiction of isolation.” R. G. Usher

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:573 Ag ‘17 450w

  “The author is primarily an economist. This accounts for both the
  strength and the weakness of the book. Its weakness consists in the
  author’s tendency to interpret all international relations in economic
  terms. ... With this word of caution in mind, Mr Weyl’s book may be
  read with extreme profit and pleasure. ... He compels the reader to
  consider and ponder thoughtfully matters which most writers in this
  field have either ignored or failed to emphasize. ... The strength of
  this book lies in the overwhelmingly convincing manner with which the
  author demonstrates the absolute need of an ‘economic
  internationalism’ as the basis of world-peace.” P. M. Brown

       + =Ann Am Acad= 72:242 Jl ‘17 450w

  “A book that will make for far-sightedness, for clarity of thought and
  sanity of judgment in the deciding of many of our problems, and the
  directing of our course.” F. F. Kelly

       + =Bookm= 45:185 Ap ‘17 400w

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 400w

  “The most impressive thing in his book is the analysis of imperialist
  forces, the sense he conveys of the vast sweep of the great modern
  populations in their push toward subsistence. He searches honestly for
  ‘antidotes to imperialism’ and has no smug ‘liberal’ illusions about
  the beneficence of a ‘liberal’ imperialism. This critical analysis is
  more valuable than anything he does specifically for American
  enlightenment.” Randolph Bourne

       + =Dial= 62:388 My 3 ‘17 700w

  “Here we think is the weakness of his book. By keeping his eye on the
  evils that he finds in great individual wealth, he passes too lightly
  by the ideals of mankind and nations. ... Whatever may be thought the
  practicality of the international imperialism he favors as a
  substitute for national imperialism all will agree that Dr Weyl has
  written one of the most stimulating and enlightening books on our
  foreign policy that has been published during the war.”

     + — =Ind= 90:551 Je 23 ‘17 1150w

  “It is unfortunate that Walter E. Weyl’s ‘American world policies’ was
  sent to the press before American participation in the war became a
  probability. His assumption that the United States would remain a
  neutral throughout the struggle gives to much of the discussion,
  especially in the final chapter, an almost absurd incongruity with all
  aspects of the situation as it has ultimately developed. The book,
  nevertheless, has great compensatory merits.”

       + =Nation= 105:19 Jl 5 ‘17 200w

  “It is this quality of self-restraint, combined with his great ability
  to think and write clearly, interestingly and convincingly, that
  distinguishes Dr Weyl’s volume. ‘American world policies’ is an
  exceedingly valuable aid to the intellectual preparedness of American
  statesmen and laymen alike in this time of international crisis.” R.
  W. Bruère

       + =New Repub= 10:327 Ap 14 ‘17 1750w

  “As a statement of the contradictions and entanglements of present
  world capitalism, and the relation of the United States to these the
  work is an important one and will repay careful reading.” James Oneal

       + =N Y Call= p15 My 20 ‘17 900w

  “It deserves careful consideration. More than any other writer, he
  tries to make an intelligible statement of the real causes of the
  war.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:129 Ap 8 ‘17 1050w

  “Chiefly a discourse upon how war may be prevented and how America may
  help to prevent it. Mr Weyl analyzes keenly and his explanation of
  causes is better worth reading than most of what has been written on
  this subject; but he leans rather to the side of economic fatalism and
  his conclusions are not of the most hopeful sort. ... After finishing
  Mr Weyl’s exceedingly clear and interesting analysis of world
  politics, one may feel that the most important conclusion reached is
  that no ultimately satisfactory adjustment between industrial nations
  can be reached upon purely economic principles.”

       + =No Am= 205:622 Ap ‘17 1400w

         =Pratt= p10 O ‘17 50w

  “Deserves a wide reading. Here, for one thing, we have an analysis of
  the ‘preparedness’ movement from a man who writes with a desire to get
  beneath appearances. ... Mr Weyl’s remedy for imperialism is both
  dynamic pacifism and internal reform. Here one may think that the
  author takes too narrow a view. ... Mr Weyl goes farther than British
  socialists are willing to do in attributing the present war to
  economic causes.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p6 Mr 7 ‘17 1100w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p251 My 24 ‘17 160w

  “Mr Weyl is not always impartial and not always accurate.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p374 Ag 9 ‘17 2150w


=WHARTON, MRS EDITH NEWBOLD (JONES).= Summer. *$1.50 (3c) Appleton
17-17516

  Life was dreary as winter in the New England village of North Dormer.
  Especially was it dreary to Charity Royall, the young girl whom Lawyer
  Royall and his wife had brought down as a child from “the Mountain,”
  the desolate settlement where law and order, mind and morals were as
  nothing and lawlessness and sensuality were everything. Charity
  thought the Mountain spelled freedom, though the villagers spoke of it
  with a shudder. Her life was to sit in the village library to which no
  one ever came, and to share the home of the old lawyer, whom she had
  cause to mistrust, and who was stern and lonely after his wife’s
  death. But one day Lucius Harney, the young architect, came and
  changed the greyness of her life into the brightness of summer. Lucius
  was of the kind that takes all and gives nothing and after he had gone
  Charity knew that she was to pay the price. Then the old lawyer,
  knowing, through the sins of his own past life, how bitter that price
  would be, went through the ceremony of marriage with her, that the
  village gossips should have nothing upon which to feed. And Charity
  and the lawyer both found that goodness is greater than evil.

  “In externals this is a simple variety of a common theme. But it is a
  thoroughly individualized version of the old story, and a small
  masterpiece of refined and economical art.”

       + =Ath= p597 N ‘17 90w

  “Mrs Wharton has often been accused of bitterness; let her critics
  note that the whole effect of this powerful story hangs upon our
  recognition of the power of simple human goodness—not ‘virtuousness,’
  but faithful, unselfish devotion of one sort or another—to make life
  worth living.” H. W. Boynton

       + =Bookm= 46:93 S ‘17 420w

  “Where in New England did Mrs Wharton unearth the scene and the people
  for her latest novel?... But reputation has its value, and ‘Summer’
  will undoubtedly be sought because it is her latest novel. And that
  there is something in it worth while because it is Mrs Wharton’s
  cannot be denied.” E. F. E.

     – + =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 1800w

  “Mrs Wharton has failed in ‘Summer.’ It is a wonderfully well-written
  book so far as the marshaling of words and phrases goes. The art of
  the author is revealed in her remarkable sustaining of the element of
  suspense; she puts off the catastrophe with consummate skill. And yet,
  all this is, somehow, mere art: artifice, not life. Was Charity real
  to Mrs Wharton? She is not to us: there are only one or two vague
  moments when we feel with her at all.”

     – + =Cath World= 106:127 O ‘17 600w

  “A dreary and rather cold-blooded study, handled with Mrs Wharton’s
  usual finesse.”

     – + =Cleveland= p104 S ‘17 70w

  “The combined power of impartial contemplation and sympathy makes the
  genius of Thomas Hardy and it makes the genius of Mrs Wharton as it is
  found in ‘Ethan Frome’ and ‘Summer.’” J: Macy

       + =Dial= 63:161 Ag 30 ‘17 1350w

  “‘Summer’ reënters the field in which, with ‘Ethan Frome,’ Mrs Wharton
  produced her single masterpiece. If she does not here duplicate or
  rival that amazing feat, it is because the new matter falls short of
  the old in tragic force and conclusiveness. We believe in Royall, and
  we believe in Charity. But we do not believe in the young Lothario or
  in the various tricks of coincidence with which the integrity of the
  action is vitiated.”

     + — =Nation= 105:124 Ag 2 ‘17 530w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

         =Nation= 1 5:600 N 29 ‘17 80w

  “It is not a repellent story, but is essentially an empty one, and
  suggests too often the failings of a person who is capable of going
  slumming among souls.” F. H.

     – + =New Repub= 11:311 Jl 14 ‘17 1500w

  “Never has Mrs Wharton done anything more delicate, more exquisite,
  than the pen pictures of the New England countryside with which this
  book abounds. Of the sure and delicate analysis of Charity’s changing
  and developing emotions, as of the chiseled beauty of the style, it is
  unnecessary to speak; these are things which in connection with Mrs
  Wharton’s work may be taken for granted. ‘Summer’ is not in any way a
  big book; it ranks with its author’s lesser tales, not with ‘Ethan
  Frome’ or ‘The house of mirth’ and their fellows.”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:253 Jl 8 ‘17 1250w

  Reviewed by Lawrence Gilman

       + =No Am= 206:304 Ag ‘17 1700w

     – + =Outlook= 116:522 Ag 1 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:650 O ‘17 70w

  “The characters seem drawn in the flat; they are two-dimensional so
  far as their emotions go. All the joy and pleasantness and tenderness
  has been extracted from their lives with a hand so skilled in literary
  portraiture that the sentences bite like the acids of the etcher.”

     – + =R of Rs= 56:333 S ‘17 380w

       + =Sat R= 124:352 N 3 ‘17 100w

  “Where Mrs Wharton fails is in preparing us for such an end to the
  episode. She does not convince us either that the lawyer would have
  married Charity at that moment or that she would have married him,
  even in a temporary fit of bewildered despair.”

     – + =Spec= 119:389 O 13 ‘17 630w

  “The story is brilliantly conceived, with many tense passages and is
  striking in its portrayal of diverse human passions, but its
  conception of New England character is that of a ‘literary,’ even a
  romantic, visitor.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 490w

  “Anyone who cares about the way in which a pen is handled should take
  this book and read, and read again, such pages as those which record
  the excursion to the country town for the Fourth of July celebration,
  or the girl’s visit to the insinuating lady-doctor, or the wild
  night-piece of the funeral on the mountain.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p464 S 27 17 770w


=WHEELER, EVERETT PEPPERRELL.= Sixty years of American life, Taylor to
Roosevelt, 1850 to 1910. il *$2.50 Dutton 329 17-3602

  “This book is not a volume of personal or social memoirs. It is true
  that the author has much to say of the great figures in the country’s
  history during these sixty years. He has, for example, an interesting
  chapter on ‘Presidents I have known,’ and another on ‘Changes in sixty
  years.’ And scattered throughout his record are many delightful
  personal touches, that seem to slip in almost unaware. But the book as
  a whole is a study of political activity. Mr Wheeler has taken an
  especially important part in the work of civil service and in tariff
  reform. He has always been, as well, intimately concerned with the
  municipal problems of New York city government. And these are the
  matters that, readably and in valuable detail, are emphasized in his
  book.”—N Y Times

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:335 My ‘17

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 F 17 ‘17 700w

  “The chapters on the tariff and on municipal reform appeared in the
  New York Evening Post and the Outlook.”

       + =Cleveland= p71 My ‘17 40w

       + =Ind= 91:76 Jl 14 ‘17 50w

  “An inspiring book it is in every way, breathing through its five
  hundred pages an unshaken loyalty to the principles of democratic
  government, yet demonstrating how much one man can do, through
  inconspicuous channels, towards making that scheme of government
  measure up to its ideals.”

       + =Nation= 104:582 My 10 ‘17 280w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:39 Mr ‘17

  “Offers a valuable and unusual addition to our knowledge of our
  country’s internal history.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:49 F 11 ‘17 600w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:685 O ‘17 70w

       + =R of Rs= 55:444 Ap ‘17 120w

         =St Louis= 15:154 My ‘17

  “One wishes that Mr Wheeler had injected more of that fervor of
  impressionistic memory that made the late Justin McCarthy’s
  ‘Reminiscences,’ for instance, such delightful reading. The reprinting
  of bits of speeches in themselves lend little color to the relation of
  the struggle for civil-service reform in which Mr Wheeler was so
  eminently engaged. ‘Presidents I have known’ is disappointingly most
  impersonal.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p17 Je 3 ‘17 300w


=WHEELER, WILLIAM REGINALD=, ed. Book of verse of the great war. *$2
Yale univ. press 821.08 17-30693

  “During the past two years and a half the compiler of this volume has
  resided in Europe, America and Asia and has endeavored to choose the
  most worthy expressions of sentiment concerning the war which have
  come from these three continents.” (Editor’s preface) He has excluded
  those poems which seemed inspired by the extreme animosities of the
  war, holding to this principle in the hope that the book “may
  contribute in some small measure to a renewal of the fellowship of the
  universal community of mankind.” Among the poets represented are:
  Laurence Binyon, Dana Burnet, Emile Cammaerts, Gilbert Frankau, John
  Galsworthy, W. W. Gibson, Thomas Hardy, W. M. Letts, Josephine Preston
  Peabody, and Rabindranath Tagore. There is a foreword by Charlton M.
  Lewis, professor of English literature at Yale.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:159 F ‘18

         =Cleveland= p5 Ja ‘18 130w

  “The principles of selection shown in this collection are judicious,
  but it is to be regretted that the poems for the most part chosen have
  appeared in another book which is less expensive, easier to hold and
  more attractive to the eye.”

     + — =Springf’d Republican= p13 Ja 20 ‘18 130w


=WHERRY, EDITH.= Wanderer on a thousand hills. *$1.40 (2c) Lane 17-11706

  The first part of this story tells the tragedy of little Tung Mei,
  Winter Almond. An only child, she had been educated by her father in
  defiance of Chinese custom. But the only fate for a Chinese girl, even
  one who can read the classics, is marriage, and marriage means slavery
  under the domination of a mother-in-law. In bearing a girl child, Tung
  Mei is disgraced. She is held responsible for her husband’s sudden
  death, her baby is murdered and she is driven out into a storm. The
  second part of the story begins with her finding of little Carl
  Osborne, the child of missionary parents. Like herself he is lost in
  the storm, and Tung Mei in her distraught state looks on him as a gift
  from heaven to assuage her woe. She brings him up as her own, and it
  is not till he reaches young manhood that he learns that he is not of
  Chinese birth. He tries unsuccessfully to adapt himself to foreign
  ways, and later becomes the fanatic known as the wanderer on a
  thousand hills.

  “A grievous and dismal tale with hardly any relief and with extreme
  attention paid to the particulars of Chinese superstition and the
  delusions of Chinese fanaticism.”

       — =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 20 ‘17 100w

       + =Dial= 62:528 Je 14 ‘17 50w

  “The book has dramatic quality and atmosphere.”

       + =Ind= 90:295 My 12 ‘17 160w

  “It shows, as did ‘Kim,’ that a story, void of the master passion, may
  yet command a breathless interest. ... As we read, we are conscious of
  more than intellectual enjoyment; we are tarrying a while at the
  Interpreter’s house.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:183 My 6 ‘17 500w

  “By a Canadian writer—the wife of a Montreal physician.”

       + =Ontario Library Review= 1:121 My ‘17 70w

  “A tragic and often painful story.”

         =Outlook= 116:74 My 9 ‘17 60w

  “Interesting psychological study contrasting the oriental and western
  ideals.”

       + =Pratt= p32 O ‘17 10w

  “The story intimately pictures the human side of the Chinese, and
  should go far in helping the unprejudiced westerner to a truer
  understanding of these people. These pictures contain, perhaps, more
  than a dash of idealism, suggested by the author’s obviously
  sympathetic attitude.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 500w


=WHETHAM, CATHERINE DURNING (HOLT) (MRS WILLIAM CECIL DAMPIER WHETHAM).=
Upbringing of daughters. *$1.75 (2c) Longmans 173 17-28870

  This book by an Englishwoman has chapters on: The creation of the
  home; The life of the family; Household duties; Health; Dress; Outdoor
  life and games; General education; Scholastic instruction; The arts;
  Holidays and entertainments; Books to read; Money matters; Professions
  for daughters; Conduct; Religion; The abdication of the parent. The
  discussions touch on many other subjects than that suggested by the
  title, altho the author writes always from the viewpoint of a
  housewife and mother. On matters pertaining to education, professional
  careers for women, etc., she is conservative.

  “Concerning education she would, no doubt, be classed by many as a
  hopeless reactionary. But Mrs Whetham’s restatements are of the kind
  that make old things new. ... Though the book is close, earnest
  reading, it is neither heavy nor pedagogic; it appeals to all who take
  interest in intelligent defence of the standards by which alone any
  true progress has been or ever can be made.”

       + =Cath World= 105:833 S ‘17 300w


=WHIPPLE, GEORGE CHANDLER.= State sanitation; a review of the work of
the Massachusetts State board of health, 1869-1914. 2v *$2.50 Harvard
univ. press 614.09 (17-13246)

  Two volumes devoted to this subject have been issued. The first volume
  “is in two parts. Part 1 first sketches the early history of public
  health work in Massachusetts to the beginning of the board in 1869. It
  then outlines the history and the work of the board and its divisions,
  including the world-famous Lawrence experiment station for the study
  of water purification and sewage treatment and the engineering work of
  the board. There is also a chapter of biographical sketches; a chapter
  on the state department of health, 1914-16, and one on state
  sanitation in general. Part 2 is an able condensation of the lengthy
  ‘Report of the Massachusetts sanitary commission of Massachusetts’
  which under the leadership of Lemuel Shattuck worked out a detailed
  plan for a ‘sanitary survey’ of the state—really a scheme for state
  and local health work.” (Engin News-Rec) “The second volume contains
  in some cases reprints and in other cases abridgments of the more
  important articles or studies which have appeared in the publications
  of the Massachusetts state board of health during the past forty-seven
  years. Included also are chronological abstracts of the board’s annual
  reports.” (Am Pol Sci R) “Extracted from the 1878 report of the board
  is a paper entitled ‘The filtration of potable water,’ written by
  Prof. Wm. Ripley Nichols. This is one of many classics on water and
  sewage treatment which are reprinted in full or abstract in this
  volume.” (Engin News-Rec)

  “Professor Whipple’s keen eye for the things that are interesting has
  enabled him to make his book readable throughout. That it will be of
  great service to special students of the subject is beyond question.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:791 N ‘17 170w (Review of v 1)

  “Many of these writings represent pioneer achievement in the domain of
  public health administration, and taken as a whole they afford an
  interesting history of the stages through which that science has
  developed during the last half century.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 12:158 F ‘18 90w (Review of v 2)

  “An interesting and stimulating record of American progress in state
  and municipal sanitation and preventive medicine.”

       + =Dial= 63:165 Ag 30 ‘17 230w (Review of v 1)

  “Professor Whipple is rendering a notable service. The pleasurable
  task he is doing so well is one for which he is well qualified through
  long acquaintance with members of the board and of its staff and
  through service on the Massachusetts public health council since
  1914.”

       + =Engin News-Rec= 79:130 Jl 19 ‘17 300w (Review of v 1)

       + =Engin News-Rec= 80:130 Ja 17 ‘18 450w (Review of v 2)

  “A book of general as well as technical interest.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 15 ‘17 400w (Review of v 1).


=WHITE, ALBERT CLEMENT=, ed. Little book of Irish verse. *60c Dutton
821.08

  “The profits from the sale of ‘A little book of Irish verse’ are
  destined to add to the comfort of Irish troops, wounded or in the
  field. Tho this collection cannot bear comparison with that in Yeats’s
  ‘Book of Irish verse,’ it still contains verses by some of the best
  Irish poets of the day. Irish war poems are in evidence, but not less
  so lyrics on themes quite unconnected with the present conflict.”—Ind

       + =Ind= 89:196 Ja 29 ‘17 100w

  “Mr White, who is editor of the Ulster Guardian, has made careful
  selection from the verse of some of the best known of the modern Irish
  poets and in the main, as has been suggested, has chosen poems with a
  war-time theme.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 30 ‘17 250w


=WHITE, VILLETTE HUTCHINS.=[2] Mental control of the body; or, Health
through self-conquest. *$1 (4c) Clode, E: J. 131 17-21698

  Aims to show the way to bodily healing thru an intelligent
  understanding of a few basic facts, a vital faith in the possibility
  of cure and a disciplined will to realize upon that faith. It differs
  from Christian science healing in its conscious effort to treat
  disease as a reality—to be met by bringing all the bodily forces and
  functions under one’s control thru the will. The writer once
  establishing the theory of her health scheme proceeds to give a simple
  practical method of application by which the reader may find health.


=WHITE, WILLIAM ALANSON.=[2] Mechanisms of character formation. *$1.75
(3c) Macmillan 130 16-22292

  For descriptive note see Annual for 1916.

  “On the whole, Dr White’s book shows wide learning and offers much
  interesting material, but lacks logical coherence and exactness of
  terminology and is marred occasionally by slovenly English. In spite
  of its subtitle, ‘An introduction to psychoanalysis,’ it hardly meets
  that need as successfully as Hitschmann’s ‘Freud’s theories of the
  neuroses,’ recently made accessible to English readers, neither does
  it possess the incisiveness and clarity of Professor Holt’s brilliant
  little book, ‘The Freudian wish.’ The chief attraction of the book is
  the note of broad and sympathetic humanism running through it.” J: M.
  Mecklin

     + — =J Philos= 14:715 D 20 ‘17 750w

  “We have apprehended no real ‘message’ in this book, either to the
  medical student or to the general reader; it seems to us to get
  nowhere in particular.”

     – + =Nation= 104:584 My 10 ‘17 200w

  “The criticism which applies to all Freudian psychologists applies to
  the present author as well. They assume much and interpret much on
  slender evidence.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 30 ‘17 200w

  “Its teaching is rather obscured than clarified by the vague
  philosophy of life and of the universe which the author, in common
  with many of the school, delights in spinning about the facts of their
  practice.” R. S. Woodworth

     – + =Survey= 38:361 Jl 21 ‘17 110w


=WHITEHEAD, HENRY=, bp. of Madras. Village gods of South India. il *85c
Oxford 229 17-3158

  “This is the first of a series of small volumes dealing with the
  Religious life of India, under the editorship of Mr J. N. Farquhar,
  literary secretary, Y. M. C. A. in India. The volume under review is
  by the Bishop of Madras. ... He shows how the village gods symbolize
  the facts of village life, and suggests the hypothesis that the form
  of their worship, viz., animal sacrifice, is a survival of totemism
  from a time when the people lived a nomadic life. ... The fact that
  women perform so much of the agricultural work among primitives
  suggests an explanation for the fact that the majority of the South
  Indian deities are female.”—Bib World

  “Gives a mass of new material for the study of comparative religion.”
  W. D. S.

       + =Am J Theol= 21:157 Ja ‘17 200w

  “The book is deserving of a hearty reception by students of the
  history of religion.”

       + =Bib World= 49:48 Ja ‘17 200w

  “It is a needed volume, handy, straightforward, and not antipathetic.”

       + =Lit D= 54:913 Mr 31 ‘17 140w

  “A glossary of Indian terms, a list of gods, male and female, and a
  geographical index to the ethnological divisions, all provided with
  diacritical marks, promise well for the series.”

       + =Nation= 103:615 D 28 ‘16 400w

       + =Spec= 117:136 Jl 29 ‘16 140w

  “Mr J. N. Farquhar is entirely competent. Successive volumes, some in
  preparation and others in projection, are to be written by authorities
  who have every reason and opportunity for full investigation upon the
  spot.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p412 Ag 31 ‘16 90w


=WHITING, LILIAN.= Adventure beautiful. il *$1 (2c) Little 134 17-25596

  The author has taken Charles Frohman’s words: “Death is the most
  beautiful adventure in life,” for the text of her first essay. The
  present appalling sacrifice of life leads her to look for spiritual
  compensations and to contemplate the possibility of immortality and
  its evidences. The remaining essays of the book are: The reality of
  the unseen; Twenty years in retrospect; Some psychical experiences;
  Powers of the ethereal body; The nature of the ethereal world;
  Creative agencies of the spiritual life; Make room for happiness; Also
  the Holy Ghost, the Comforter.

  “Miss Whiting has made a genuine contribution to the discussion of a
  theme which must more and more command the world’s attention.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 D 5 ‘17 300w

       + =Lit D= 56:36 Ja 26 ‘18 130w

  “Miss Whiting has much to say of the sort of spiritualism taught by
  Professor Hyslop. With this spookery she mingles fragments of
  mysticism caught from anywhere in the Orient. The effect of the
  mixture upon one soul at least is not exalting, but there are readers
  who enjoy Miss Whiting’s rhapsodies more than does this reviewer.”

       — =Nation= 105:517 N 8 ‘17 200w

  “One can hardly lay down her book without feeling more hopeful of
  happiness in the world beyond.”


       + =N Y Times= 22:498 N 25 ‘17 400w


=WHITING, LILIAN.= Canada, the spellbinder. il *$2.50 Dutton 917.1
17-22084

  “A brief survey of the ‘creative forces’ of Canada, those explorers,
  missionaries, adventurers, pioneers, traders, scientists and statesmen
  who from the sixteenth to the twentieth centuries have explored and
  developed her picturesque and fruitful domains, is followed by
  detailed studies of various localities.” (Boston Transcript)
  “Beginning with ‘Quebec and the picturesque maritime region,’ Miss
  Whiting travels slowly westward, describing the chief cities, the
  summer resorts, visiting Cobalt and the silver mines, and so going on
  through Winnipeg and Edmonton to the western coast. There is a chapter
  on ‘Prince Rupert and Alaska,’ and another describing the journey from
  Prince Rupert by way of Vancouver, Victoria, and Seattle to San
  Francisco, where another section is devoted to Canada in the
  Panama-Pacific exposition.” (N Y Times) “There is a chapter on the
  poets of Canada, C. G. D. Roberts, Bliss Carman, W. H. Drummond, and
  others.” (Spec) “The book incorporates portions of Miss Whiting’s
  articles which appeared in the Sunday Springfield Republican in 1916.”
  (Springf’d Republican)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:57 N ‘17

  “The interest of this readable volume is increased by numerous fine
  illustrations in colour and monotone.”

       + =Ath= p315 Je ‘17 40w

  “Miss Whiting reviews for us not only the development of those
  Canadian cities and provinces of which we already have a superficial
  knowledge, but also such places as Winnipeg and Prince Rupert.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 1 ‘17 420w

  “She lacks great power of description, but to offset this, falls back
  upon scores of writers and poets who have written of the scenes she
  visits.”

     + — =Cath World= 106:546 Ja ‘18 90w

       + =Cleveland= p12 Ja ‘18 40w

  “Lilian Whiting’s enthusiasm of spirit and glow of language are at
  their usual high level in ‘Canada the spellbinder.’”

     + — =Nation= 105:18 Jl 5 ‘17 180w

       + =N Y Times= 22:236 Je 17 ‘17 250w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:677 O ‘17 70w

       + =Spec= 118:593 My 26 ‘17 70w

  “A very happy specimen of globe-trotting literature taken in serious
  vein. ... Journalists and readers who are interested in journalism
  will note with special attention Miss Whiting’s comment on the founder
  of the Toronto Globe.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 O 4 ‘17 480w


=WHITMAN, SIDNEY.= Things I remember. *$2.50 (3½c) Stokes 17-8078

  The subtitle describes this book as “The recollections of a political
  writer in the capitals of Europe.” The author was for many years
  special correspondent for the New York Herald. His recollections go
  back to the early nineties. Among other things he writes of: Vienna;
  Salonica and Constantinople; The Spanish-American war; Bismarck’s
  death; Warsaw in revolt; Berlin during the Algeciras conference; W. T.
  Stead; James Gordon Bennett.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:352 My ‘17

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:406 My ‘17 50w

  “Mr Whitman, well known for his travels over Europe and his
  intercourse with great and formidable people for the benefit of the
  ‘New York Herald,’ has revived some of his memories in a pleasant and
  easy narrative. ... We have much to learn concerning Germany, and Mr
  Whitman is well qualified to teach us.”

       + =Sat R= 122:461 N 11 ‘16 750w

  “A most interesting book, and one which deserves the attention of all
  those who desire to understand the inner working of German policy.”

       + =Spec= 117:554 N 4 ‘16 750w

  “One of the best books of memoirs which have recently appeared.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p494 O 19 ‘16 650w


=WHITTON, FREDERICK ERNEST.=[2] History of Poland from the earliest
times to the present day. *$3 Scribner 943.8

  “Major Whitton traces the record of ‘the most unfortunate and not the
  least noble of European peoples,’ the rise and fall of their great
  kingdom. Naturally our interest centres in events since the beginning
  of the famous partitions, and in the fate of Poland under Russian,
  Prussian, and Austrian rule. The story of the partitions is told in
  detail, with significant sketches of the characters of the rulers
  involved—Catherine the Great of Russia, first Frederick the Great and
  then Frederick William of Prussia, and first Maria Theresa and then
  Francis of Austria.” (N Y Times) “In his story of the famous
  partitions Colonel Whitton follows Lord Eversley fairly closely, but
  he has been preserved by study of the cold-blooded ‘Cambridge modern
  history’ from being too pronounced a partisan of the Poles. He is
  fully alive to the weak points in their national character and to the
  viciousness of their system of government.” (Spec)

       + =Ath= p531 O ‘17 220w

  “His narrative is interesting, readable, and to the point. But the
  book suffers from two weaknesses—a marked insufficiency of dates and a
  remissness in dealing with the life of the common people.”

     + — =Ath= p585 N ‘17 570w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ja 16 ‘18 490w

  “‘A history of Poland’ is not only a presentation of valuable and
  pertinent facts, but is written with a simplicity and vividness that
  make the book thoroughly interesting.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:2 Ja 6 ‘18 360w

  “He would, we are sure, lay no claim to be an original historian; he
  has not added anything to the sum of knowledge. Nevertheless, we can
  cordially recommend his book.”

       + =Spec= 119:358 O 6 ‘17 820w

  “The author gives a clear but not very well balanced account of the
  Polish kingdom under its successive monarchs. It must be confessed,
  that the earlier part of the book is unsatisfactory, especially
  chapters 1 and 3, and contains actual mistakes. The best part of Major
  Whitton’s book is certainly its later portion.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p511 O 25 ‘17 1500w


=WHITTON, FREDERICK ERNEST.= Marne campaign. (Campaigns and their
lessons) maps *$4 (5c) Houghton 940.91 17-24849

  For years before the outbreak of the European war, Major Whitton
  points out in his preface, military experts of all countries had been
  considering the problem of handling the huge armies which a modern war
  would demand. In the campaigns of the Marne theories were put to a
  practical test, and it is from this point of view, that of military
  strategy, that the battle is here studied. “The battle of the Marne
  furnishes the military student with a signal example of the
  strategical counter-attack on a great scale.” Eight folding maps are
  provided at the end and there is a bibliography.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:91 D ‘17

  “Will be useful to civilian and military readers alike. Eight clear
  maps illustrate the book.”

       + =Ath= p260 My ‘17 140w

  “The book contains an excellent map of the alignments of the armies,
  numbered according to their corps, divisions and brigades upon the
  most reliable up-to-date information.”

       + =Ind= 91:477 S 22 ‘17 170w

  “The present volume tells this story in a particularly masterly
  manner, and is perhaps the best documented and most circumstantial
  account of the great battle. None, in fact, that has been issued is
  comparable to it, except Mr Belloc’s volume of about a year ago.”

       + =Lit D= 55:38 O 13 ‘17 580w

         =N Y Times= 22:323 S 2 ‘17 250w

       + =R of Rs= 56:213 Ag ‘17 130w

  “He is clear and concise, and his book gives a much better general
  impression of the battle of the Marne than any other we know.”

       + =Sat R= 123:284 My 24 ‘17 250w

  “A very useful and well-written narrative. There have been two rival
  theories of the Marne. The common view is that General Maunoury’s
  flank attack on the Ourcq upon General von Kluck, who commanded on the
  German right was the deciding factor. Major Whitton adopts this
  theory, and supports it by a good deal of evidence.”

 *     + =Spec= 119:143 Ag 11 ‘17 1350w

  “Considering that Major Whitton’s narrative is built throughout of
  similar and not more stable material, we are half inclined to mourn
  over the labour which he has expended upon it. For the author has not
  done his work ill. He writes good, clear, and vigorous English; and
  his summary of the military and naval resources of the combatants and
  of the operations preceding the battle of the Marne is, so far as his
  information goes, terse and pointed.”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p195 Ap 26 ‘17 1450w


=WHYTE, ADAM GOWANS.= World’s wonder stories. il *$1.75 (2½c) Putnam 500
18-2983

  A book of rather miscellaneous information about the universe,
  together with a discussion of ethical problems, designed for young
  readers. Contents: How was the world made? Where did the plants and
  animals come from? Nature’s family tree; Who was the first man? Who
  was the greatest grandfather of creation? Where did all the religions
  come from? Where did the Bible come from? Where did right and wrong
  come from? How do things happen? There are many illustrations.

  “It is that rare thing, a book written for children without being in
  some sense written down to them,—and therefore a delight to the reader
  of any age.” J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:497 D ‘17 120w

         =Ind= 92:449 D 1 ‘17 30w

  “The information is correct and modern; and the language is dignified
  and circumspect. Orthodox teachers and parents whose teaching of
  morality follows conventional lines would undoubtedly derive benefit
  from the method of presentation adopted, while no child could read the
  book without understanding something of the scientific method and what
  it has accomplished.”

       + =Nature= 98:208 N 16 ‘16 160w

  “A vast amount of valuable information is included in the volume.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 D 21 ‘17 110w

  “We began the book with misgiving, as the style seemed to foreshadow
  that lisping sing-song which is the form of address so often deemed
  appropriate in modern children’s books. But we proceeded with growing
  pleasure, and finally devoured all the wonders with relish. It is a
  delightful book. ... We may add as a parting criticism that we doubt
  whether it was well advised to include the picture of ‘what our
  great-grandfathers and great-grandmothers looked like in the days when
  the ape-men were slowly changing into men.’”

     + — =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p609 D 14 ‘16 380w


=WIDDEMER, MARGARET.= Factories. *$1.25 Holt 811 17-23582

  This book was first published in 1915 under the title, “Factories,
  with other lyrics”; and has been for some time out of print. The
  publisher states that the book has been reset for this new edition,
  and that the author has made some changes in the original text as well
  as added a number of new poems. The poems, with the exception of the
  title poem, are grouped under the headings: Poems of now; The
  wandering singer; Youth learns; Greek folk songs; Love songs; The
  border country.


=WIDDEMER, MARGARET.= Winona of Camp Karonya. il *$1.25 (1½c) Lippincott
17-28799

  The story opens with the breaking up of camp and the return of the
  Camp Karonya girls to town. During the winter following they assume
  responsibility for a family of neglected children and plan a pageant,
  in addition to carrying on the usual Camp fire activities. The story
  has two mysteries, one concerning a lost boy, who seems to have
  strayed over from the war zone, the other connected with a lost baby.

  “The main thing is less the plot than the atmosphere of unselfishness
  and right feeling with which, without sentimental strain, the writer
  surrounds her story.” J: Walcott

       + =Bookm= 46:499 D ‘17 140w

  “The author of this book understands the Camp fire girl movement
  thoroughly. Her one endeavor throughout is to show the effect that
  Camp fire virtues have on a group of very healthy girls.”

       + =Lit D= 55:60 D 8 ‘17 33w

  “A nice, long worth-while story.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:466 N 11 ‘17 120w


=WIDDEMER, MARGARET.= Wishing-ring man. il *$1.35 (2c) Holt 17-25082

  Joy Hayenith, nineteen and beautiful, is kept a child by her famous
  and egoistical grandfather, the poet. She meets a young doctor who
  finds out that Joy is longing for pleasure and adventure, and tells
  her that if she keeps on believing things will happen that very belief
  may bring her what she wants “like a wishing-ring.” In order to get
  permission to visit Phyllis and Allan Harrington, of “The rose garden
  husband,” Joy lies to her grandfather, telling him that she is engaged
  to the Harrington’s friend and neighbor, Dr John Hewitt. Hewitt
  appears on the scene unexpectedly and accepts the situation. The story
  goes on to picture the consequences of this word spoken in jest. All
  misunderstandings are finally cleared up, and the book ends happily.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:99 D ‘17

  “We enter the land of romance when we read one of these novels of Miss
  Widdemer’s. Reality is there too, but it is a guest rather than the
  ruler of the kingdom. The bits of humor help toward this perfect
  welding of romance and reality.” D. L. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 O 27 ‘17 780w

  “Margaret Widdemer has given us an impossible book—a naïve book—a book
  that reminds us, in its simplicity, of the days when we read and
  enjoyed ‘The five little Peppers,’” D: P. Berenberg

       — =N Y Call= p15 N 11 ‘17 460w

  “A charming, slight little tale, written with vivacity and with
  ever-bubbling humor.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:397 O 14 ‘17 320w

  “It is the purpose to make ‘The wishing-ring man’ a sequel to ‘The
  rose garden husband.’ But structural similarity makes this only a weak
  and frankly artificial echo of the other charming romance.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p17 D 9 ‘17 200w


=WIER, ALBERT E.= Grand opera with a victrola. *75c Appleton 782.1
16-4756

  A book “containing the stories, the most popular music, and the Victor
  record numbers of Aïda, Faust, Carmen, Tannhäuser, Lohengrin,
  Cavalleria rusticana, Rigoletto, Il trovatore, The Bohemian girl,
  Tales of Hoffman, Hansel and Gretel, Lucia di Lammermoor; arranged for
  playing, singing and the selection of Victor records.”—N Y Br Lib News

         =A L A Bkl= 13:388 Je ‘17

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:73 My ‘17

         =St Louis= 15:173 Je ‘17

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:62 F ‘17 70w


=WIERS-JENSSEN, HANS.= Anne Pedersdotter. *$1 Little 839.8 17-24983

  The author is a Danish dramatist. The English version of “Anne
  Pedersdotter” is by John Masefield. The play has been produced both in
  England and America. The action takes place in Bergen in the year
  1574, and concerns a case of witchcraft in which Anne Pedersdotter,
  wife of Absolon Beyer, palace chaplain, is the central figure. The
  first three acts are laid in Absolon’s house, the last in the choir of
  the cathedral.

  Reviewed by Algernon Tassin

       + =Bookm= 46:349 N ‘17 110w

         =Cleveland= p135 D ‘17 50w

  “It is a drama of great possibilities; but the tragic, unexpected
  climax will prevent it from ever becoming popular and makes it a play
  to be read rather than acted.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:sup16 N 17 ‘17 210w

  “The trial scene for dramatic power must stand with the great scenes
  of modern drama.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:109 Ja ‘18 150w

  “Apparently the morbid horror of numerous situations is the only
  raison d’etre of the piece.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p17 N 18 ‘17 220w


=WIGMORE, JOHN HENRY=, ed. Science and learning in France; with a survey
of opportunities for American students in French universities. il $1.50
Soc. for American fellowships in French universities, J. H. Wigmore,
ed., 31 Lake st., Chicago; for sale by McClurg 378 17-26896

  This volume of over 400 pages, the work of nearly 100 leading American
  scholars and members of college and university faculties, takes up
  some 22 subjects—medicine, engineering, philology, chemistry, geology,
  archæology, etc. The general editor is John H. Wigmore of Northwestern
  university, and associated with him as vice chairman of the Author’s
  committee is Charles H. Grandgent of Harvard university. “As stated in
  its preface, its purpose is to put before the American public the
  contributions of France in all fields of scientific knowledge, and to
  show her status in the forefront of the world’s progress, thus
  furnishing to American university students an incentive to pursue
  graduate work in France. Each chapter sets forth briefly for a
  particular field the notable achievements and eminent leaders of
  French scholarship during the past century; and the courses of
  instruction given now or recently at the French universities,
  especially at the University of Paris, with the facilities available
  for study and research. There is also an introduction, by President
  Emeritus Eliot of Harvard, on the intellectual inspiration of Paris
  and France.” (Cath World) “The first of the three appendices contains
  an article by James Geddes, Jr., which narrates the history of the
  intellectual sympathies and university relations between France and
  America. ... The other two appendices contain much practical
  information for students intending to take advanced work in France.”
  (N Y Times)

  “No thinking person, however prejudiced, could read this record of
  scholarly and scientific accomplishment without realizing the sober
  intellectual power, the strong moral fibre of the French people, and
  no one who had grasped that fact before the war could have talked
  glibly, as many did, of France regenerated by the ordeal of battle.”
  C. H. Van Tyne

       + =Am Hist R= 23:391 Ja ‘18 1300w

  “As a handbook for American students who contemplate study abroad the
  book will be indispensable.” C: A. Ellwood

       + =Am J Soc= 23:412 N ‘17 350w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:78 D ‘17

         =Am Pol Sci R= 12:155 F ‘18 100w

  “The volume, besides being a revelation to most of us, is also a
  beautiful testimonial to the modesty of the French scholar who made so
  little effort to claim the applause of the world. The one criticism
  that can be made is that names occur to one’s mind constantly which
  might have been included. The chapter on law is too short.” Albert
  Schinz

     + — =Bookm= 46:445 D ‘17 3050w

  “On the whole, the appreciation of Catholic scholars is just. ...
  There are occasional omissions of names which might be expected, such
  as Branly, of the Catholic institute of Paris, the discoverer of the
  principle of the wireless. ... The paper on religion deals almost
  exclusively with the history of religions, and is written with a
  carefulness apparently designed to avoid points of controversy. In the
  list of libraries, that of the Catholic institute of Paris should
  certainly have been mentioned, and even that of the Seminary of St
  Sulpice, which has a recognized standing.”

       + =Cath World= 105:840 S ‘17 390w

  “There is not a hint of propagandist ardor in ‘Science and learning in
  France.’ Such ardor would be an insult to France, which needs no
  commendation beyond the simple record of achievement. Everywhere in
  this book western culture is recognized as international—a growth to
  which all the peoples have made important contributions. ... It is a
  compendious introduction to the intellectual world of France, intended
  to serve as a guide for students who may be planning to work for a
  doctorate abroad. But it should serve the broader purpose of
  acquainting the general public with the brilliant achievements of
  contemporary France. ... I think there is some need for Americans to
  read ‘Science and learning in France.’” C. H.

       + =Dial= 63:159 Ag 30 ‘17 1350w

  Reviewed by Ferdinand Baldensperger

       + =Nation= 106:37 Ja 10 ‘18 2600w

  “Such books as this will be especially useful in bringing Americans to
  realize the importance of a section of French life and effort of which
  too many have known little and thought less.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:277 Jl 29 ‘17 1800w

  “The publication of this book coincides with the establishment of an
  American university union in Paris, cementing the bond between
  American students and French universities.”

       + =Outlook= 117:103 S 19 ‘17 320w

  “Although the disparagement of German learning and research may be
  carried to absurd extremes in these days of war-time passions, this
  book should prove a valuable aid toward opening the treasure-house of
  French learning to the American students.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 N 23 ‘18 280w


=WILBUR, MARY ARONETTA.= Child’s religion. *$1 (4c) Houghton 377 17-9361

  A series of papers on the religious training of children, some of them
  reprinted from the Churchman. The author’s attitude is expressed in a
  quotation from another religious teacher: “You cannot give your
  children religion; that is not your province. Your work is to keep the
  child in position before God.” Contents: A child’s religion; The child
  and the church; Children and missions; The song and the child; The
  child and his book; On telling Bible stories; A Sunday-school
  teacher’s biography; The childlike teacher; The old Bible and the new
  child.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:379 Je ‘17

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:95 Je ‘17

       + =R of Rs= 55:553 My ‘17 40w


=WILCOX, EARLEY VERNON.= Tropical agriculture. *$2.50 Appleton 630
16-22335

  “The author has had in mind the general reader in writing this work,
  not the farmer of the tropics. ... Climate, soil, agricultural
  methods, live stock and economic conditions are briefly discussed. The
  larger part of the volume deals with a description of the nature,
  source and commercial importance of about 350 tropical products,
  including sugar cane, nuts, fruits, starchy foods, tobacco, fiber
  plants, rubber, gum, drugs, tans, dyes, spices, flavorings, perfumes,
  oils, timber and woods.”—Ann Am Acad

  “Good illustrations and a bibliography of books and periodicals. For
  reference rather than for general reading.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:339 My ‘17

  “He is especially clear in discussing economic conditions not to
  overestimate the opportunities for the small farmer but shows that it
  is the large owner who reaps his profit from low-priced labor or the
  middle man who has made great profits. ... The appendix, with reviews
  of the literature related to the subject, and a full bibliography of
  the periodicals from all parts of the world, are especially good.” C.
  W. Larson

       + =Ann Am Acad= 70:319 Mr ‘17 480w

  “Dr Wilcox, who is now an administrative assistant in the States
  relation service of the United States Department of agriculture, was
  for six years in charge of the Hawaii experiment station. His book is
  the first real American contribution to cover the whole subject of
  crops, cultural methods and live stock in the tropics.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Je 20 ‘17 200w

  “The opening chapters on tropical climate, soils, agricultural
  methods, etc., might with great advantage be carefully revised and
  reconsidered. ... The reader is disappointed to note a lack of
  proportion, an utter disregard of uniformity in treatment, and an
  entire absence of method—qualities essential in a book of reference.
  The plates serve a pictorial rather than a practical purpose. ... The
  book, as it stands, cannot become a textbook for either the merchant
  or the student. It needs drastic revision.”

       — =Nature= 99:183 My 3 ‘17 650w

       + =N Y Times= 22:220 Je 3 ‘17 50w


=WILD, LAURA HULDA.= Evolution of the Hebrew people and their influence
on civilization. *$1.50 (1½c) Scribner 220.9 17-24078

  The author is professor of biblical history and literature in Mt.
  Holyoke college, and this book is the result of several years of
  teaching pupils “who come to college with no adequate conception of
  what the Bible stands for.” It is a work for beginners and attempts
  “to relate Bible study to the great fields of knowledge that command a
  modern student’s attention, to show something of the fascination of
  Bible study pursued in this way, and to leave a positive conviction of
  the surpassing value of the great prophetic thoughts handed down to
  us.” (Preface) The book is divided into five parts: The cultural
  background of Hebrew life; A sketch of the development of religious
  ideas; The influence of physical environment upon the development of
  the Hebrew race; Israel’s economic and social development; The place
  in world thought of the great Hebrew prophetic teachers. There are two
  maps, a bibliography and an index.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:111 Ja ‘18

  “The book ought to serve its purpose well. It does not make too great
  demands of the beginner. It meets him at least half-way. It ranges
  about freely through the whole biblical world seeking out the
  interesting and attractive spots and finding them.”

       + =Bib World= 51:47 Ja ‘18 210w

  “There is much interesting and valuable material in the book.”

       + =Lit D= 55:52 D 1 ‘17 380w


=WILDE, PERCIVAL.= Unseen host, and other war plays. *$1.25 Little 812
17-25290

  These five one-act plays survey the present war from many angles. The
  “Unseen host” is based upon the legend of the “Angels of Mons”;
  “Mothers of men” is an interview between two women whose sons are at
  the front; “Pawns” is the story of some Russian and Austrian peasants
  living as neighbors on the frontier and summoned to mobilize, quite
  ignorant of what mobilization means; “In the ravine” is a conversation
  between an Italian professor of biology and an Austrian forger, who
  have been fighting on the heights; and “Valkyrie” is a conversation on
  the battlefield between two wounded officers, one German and the other
  British and a common soldier.

  “‘Mother of men’ and ‘Pawns’ are both powerful, thoroughly realised
  achievements. He displays no weakness anywhere, is rich in dramatic
  device, nervous yet natural in dialogue, frugal in means, strong in
  concentration.” Algernon Tassin

       + =Bookm= 46:349 N ‘17 40w

  “His new volume shows growth in Mr Wilde, especially in his
  understanding of the springs of human emotion. Of the new series the
  title play, a fine and effective use of the legend of the angels at
  the battle of the Marne, is the best, but he almost duplicates the
  success of this difficult piece of work in his German version of a
  similar theme, ‘Valkyrie.’ Taken together these are the finest dramas
  the war has inspired in America.” Williams Haynes

       + =Dial= 63:586 D 6 ‘17 560w

  “The point of view is cosmopolitan rather than simply patriotic, and
  the dialogs between enemies who have found out that, after all, they
  share a common humanity light up the tragedy and absurdity of war with
  far greater skill than any deliberately purposed pacifistic play could
  hope to attain.”

       + =Ind= 92:63 O 6 ‘17 60w

       + =R of Rs= 57:101 Ja ‘18 100w


=WILKINS, ERNEST HATCH; COLEMAN, ALGERNON, and HUSE, HOWARD RUSSELL.=
First lessons in spoken French for men in military service. *50c Univ.
of Chicago press 448 17-19499

  “The purpose of this book is to help men in American military service
  (1) to understand what may be said to them in French; (2) to make
  themselves understood in French; (3) to understand printed French. The
  facts and words of French are presented consistently in terms of
  sound. ... For the representation of the French sounds we have used a
  set of phonetic symbols for which we claim at least the merit of
  simplicity. It coincides to a considerable degree with the set used in
  Grandgent’s ‘Short French grammar.’ We have deliberately ignored
  certain differentiations in sound which are commonly taught, and which
  should be taught under normal circumstances. ... The words chosen for
  the word-lists have been selected with reference to the particular
  needs of men in the service.” (Preface)

  “An excellent textbook for oral work. Word lists and order of the
  lessons are well chosen. Index and table of word lists, no
  vocabulary.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:10 O ‘37

         =Pittsburgh= 22:694 O ‘17


=WILKINSON, ANDREWS.= Boy holidays in the Louisiana wilds. il *$1.50
(2c) Little 17-24284

  This book will introduce new types of adventure to northern boy
  readers. Capturing alligators, hunting the marsh lynx, and fishing in
  the bayous of lower Louisiana are the pastimes of its three young
  heroes. Woven in with the recital of their real exploits are the tales
  told by Uncle Jason, tales of the Uncle Remus variety, with such
  titles as, The wise coon that got away, How the squirrel-jay war
  began, How Mr Turkey Buzzard became bald. There are also attractive
  pictures of home life on a big plantation and descriptions of the
  country bordering the lower Mississippi.

  “Children who love Uncle Remus’s stories will be glad of Andrews
  Wilkinson’s ‘Boy holidays in the Louisiana wilds’ with its effective
  pictures.”

       + =Ind= 92:447 D 1 ‘17 30w

  “Their adventures are entertaining, and there are good descriptions of
  southern scenery and life. But this is a book of stories rather than
  adventure, and the interest centers in Uncle Jason, a second Uncle
  Remus.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 110w


=WILKINSON, MRS MARGUERITE OGDEN (BIGELOW)=,[2] comp. Golden songs of
the Golden state. *$1.50 McClurg 811.08 17-31452

  A California anthology. There are included in it poems by California
  writers and by others who have fallen under California’s charm. The
  compiler says, “I have felt that in a sense California belongs to us
  all—not only to the native sons and daughters, but to the many who
  have been refreshed and strengthened and healed by sojourning
  there. ... But whenever it has been possible I have given the
  preference to poems by western poets who have made their reputations
  in the West or who are now living there and definitely associated with
  the West.” The book is made up of three parts: Pioneer voices; Voices
  of the great singers; Living voices.


=WILLCOX, CORNÉLIS DE WITT.= War French. *75c Macmillan 448 17-24091

  The author, a colonel in the United States army, is professor of
  modern languages at the West Point military academy. Contents: Part 1,
  The French language; part 2, The French army; part 3, Passages for
  translation into English. About fifty pages of part 1 are devoted to
  the verb. A few pages of vocabularies and conversations follow. The
  army information in part 2 is also followed by vocabularies and
  conversations. Following part 3 are French-English and English-French
  vocabularies.

       + =Ind= 92:343 N 17 ‘17 50w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:835 D ‘17 50w


=WILLIAMS, ALBERT RHYS.= In the claws of the German eagle. il *$1.50
(3c) Dutton 940.91 17-12508

  The entertaining quality which this book of war-time adventures
  undoubtedly has, is due largely to its revelation of the author’s
  personality. He writes with humor and sympathy, and without prejudice.
  “To myself,” he writes, “out of these insights into the great
  calamity, there has come reinforcement to my belief in the essential
  greatness of the human stuff in all nations. Along with this goes a
  faith that in the new internationalism mankind will lay low the
  military Frankenstein that he has created, and realize the triumphant
  brotherhood of all human souls.” The book consists of four parts: The
  spy-hunters of Belgium; On foot with the German army; With the war
  photographers in Belgium; Love among the ruins. The author is the
  socialist pastor of a church in East Boston who was traveling in
  Europe when the war broke out. His articles on the war were first
  contributed to the Outlook.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:446 Jl ‘17

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 12 ‘17 130w

  “The volume before us, however, has some noteworthy differences from
  the general run. In the first place, the author was not a professional
  war correspondent when the war began. Hence his narrative possesses a
  certain freshness of outlook and naiveté of presentation. Secondly, as
  he tells us, ‘there is no culling out of just those episodes which
  support a particular theory, such as the total and complete depravity
  of the German race. ... So I am not to blame whether those episodes
  damn the Germans or bless them. Some do, and some don’t. What one ran
  into was largely a matter of luck.’ There is a very human note running
  through the book.”

   + + — =Cath World= 105:699 Ag ‘17 260w

  “A vividly interesting account.”

       + =Cleveland= p102 S ‘17 50w

  “Accounts of frightfulness might have added to the attractiveness of
  his story for those who enjoy shuddering, but Mr Williams finds
  himself unable, as an eye-witness, to record any such atrocities, and
  so very wisely leaves them for others to write down. Yet it is no
  flattering picture he paints of German conduct in Belgium.”

       + =Dial= 64:82 Ja 17 ‘18 80w

  “His book is worth more than a dozen snap-shot records.”

       + =Ind= 91:72 Jl 14 ‘17 230w

  “The book is gossipy, interesting and good humoured, though by no
  means flippant in tone, and the writer seems unprejudiced and fair to
  all around.” Joshua Wanhope

       + =N Y Call= p15 My 13 ‘17 500w

  “We need more social passion of the sort that flames through every
  word that Williams has written. This alone can lead us out of the
  wilderness in which we wander.” Irwin Granich

       + =N Y Call= p15 My 20 ‘17 2000w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:684 O ‘17 30w

  “Unlike many historians of the early days of the war, Mr Williams has
  kept his emotions well under control.”

         =R of Rs= 55:668 Je ‘17 50w

  “An eminently readable, rather humorous and certainly very human
  book.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 My 11 ‘17 330w

         =Wis Lib Bul= 13:220 Jl ‘17 50w


=WILLIAMS, BLANCHE COLTON.= Handbook on story writing. *$1.50 Dodd 808.3
17-31454

  Among the many handbooks on short story writing, the author has found
  none which gives the amateur the guidance he needs in matters of
  construction. In her experience as teacher of English in Hunter
  college and in conducting extension classes in story writing at
  Columbia, she has worked out a series of fundamental principles which
  have proved to be of definite practical aid to her students. These
  principles she has incorporated in this book. As the main purpose of
  the work is to emphasize construction, four of its chapters are
  devoted to Plot. Others consider The point of view, Characterisation,
  Dialogue, The emotional element, Local colour and atmosphere, etc. The
  works of master short story writers, including many present-day
  writers, are freely drawn on for illustrative material. Each chapter
  is followed by exercises, suggestions for reading, etc. Bibliographies
  and index come at the end.

  “One of the two best text-books available for the student of
  short-story writing.” E: J. O’Brien

       + =Bookm= 46:612 Ja ‘18 1250w

       + =Ind= 93:377 Mr 2 ‘18 40w


=WILLIAMS, CHARLES DAVID.= Christian ministry and social problems. *$1
(3c) Macmillan 261 17-18971

  The author is the Episcopal bishop of Michigan. He discusses in this
  book “the demands upon religion and the opportunities of ministers
  brought about by the new social conscience, the present unjust
  distribution of wealth, and the attempts on every hand to devise
  schemes of justice rather than charity.” (Ind) “This book is the
  fourth in the series, Church principles for lay people, being issued
  by certain members of the American Episcopal church to present
  constructive thought on current theological and social questions.”
  (Springf’d Republican)

       + =Cleveland= p9 Ja ‘18 30w

         =Ind= 91:354 S 1 ‘17 90w

  “Many a sectarian minister will want to come under the authority of
  this Episcopal bishop long enough to read this little book, and many
  more need to.” L: A. Walker

         =N Y Call= p14 S 2 ‘17 420w

  “Presents clearly and forcibly the principles underlying the Christian
  minister’s relation to the social problem.”

         =Outlook= 116:627 Ag 22 ‘17 120w

  “An able summing up of the relations of the church to economic and
  labor problems. ... The bishop is a disciple of Rauschenbusch and a
  distinct radical in his social thinking.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Ag 5 ‘17 180w

  Reviewed by Graham Taylor

         =Survey= 38:531 S 15 ‘17 600w


=WILLIAMS, CLEMENT CLARENCE.= Design of railway location. il *$3.50
Wiley 625 17-5561

  “A study of the physical and economic conditions that control the
  location of railways in order that their operation may be at maximum
  safety and efficiency. Attempts to set forth principles rather than to
  describe practice. Considers economic features, with some attention to
  estimates and costs. Deals pretty fully with surveys and with
  operating conditions as influencing railway location.”—Pittsburgh

  “May be read with profit by anybody interested in the problems of
  railway economics.” T. W. V. M.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 73:235 S ‘17 190w

         =Cleveland= p111 S ‘17 30w

  “There is in the text a praiseworthy lack of inconsequential and
  irrelevant detail, an efficient segregation and sequence of the
  subject matter and a careful consideration of its expressed purpose.
  The book as a whole is an excellent compilation of the essentials
  governing most modern theories and practices on the subject, as
  generally adopted by a profession. The personality of the author
  appears strongly and in a practical manner. The book should serve more
  than its immediate purpose and may well be in the library of every
  student of the subject, whether in or out of college.” M. P. Paret

 *     + =Engin News-Rec= 78:362 My 17 ‘17 720w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:59 Ap ‘17

  “Based upon notes used in the author’s classes in the University of
  Kansas. Although ‘the basic idea ... has been to explain and develop
  underlying principles rather than to describe current practice,’ the
  work should prove valuable to practicing engineers as well as to
  students. The appendix covers specifications for the formation of the
  roadway. Many useful diagrams.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p7 Ap ‘17 140w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:523 Je ‘17 30w


=WILLIAMS, CORA LENORE.= Creative involution; with an introd. by Edwin
Markham. *$1.50 Knopf 513.8 16-22289

  “In this little volume of 200 pages Miss Williams endeavors to show
  the need and to set forth the outlines of a new system of
  philosophy—which is to say a new explanation of the processes of life
  and of their causes. She finds the theory of evolution sufficient up
  to the present time, when man has made almost complete his conquest of
  the physical world by the process of development along the lines of
  differentiation. Now, if he wishes to carry still further that
  development it is necessary for him to work out and accept a new
  process, that of integration, which Miss Williams calls involution.
  And in the inter-relation of these two, evolution and involution, she
  thinks is to be found ‘a nexus of sufficient strength to bridge not
  only the chasm between the inorganic and the organic realms, but the
  far greater chasm between the organic and psychical.’”—N Y Times

  “Miss Williams seems to have discovered this entirely by herself and
  she thinks that her discovery is new. She has been so overwhelmed by
  it that she has acquired a mystic regard for it. She calls it
  ‘creative involution’ and opposes it to ‘creative evolution,’ in a
  language which is involved, obscure, dithyrambic, sacerdotal.”

       — =Dial= 62:150 P 22 ‘17 150w

  “Such books as this can only do harm, and harm of the worst sort, for
  they urge us to throw off restraint and they diminish our ability to
  distinguish between what we can and what we cannot know. For example:
  Mr Edwin Markham is pleased to write an introduction, and just see
  what nonsense he turns up when he hoes in these fields of four
  dimensions. ... Brave words and high praise but nonsense! Mr Markham
  has not the faintest conception of what is meant in mathematics by
  hyperspace, and his ‘cosmic currents’ remind one irresistibly of Mr
  Don Marquis’s ‘Hermione!’”

       — =Nation= 104:192 F 15 ‘17 550w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:190 D ‘16

  “Miss Williams has been a member of the mathematical faculty of the
  University of California, and is an authority upon that science.”

         =N Y Times= 22:77 Mr 4 ‘17 350w

  “One wishes that the author had given her book more definitely the
  form of a critique rather than that of a series of aphorisms and
  inspirations; that she had more plainly delimited her thesis and had
  taken more pains to ‘distinguish away’ false or misleading
  interpretations of her leading ideas. But the book is stimulating.”

     + — =No Am= 205:144 Ja ‘17 1200w


=WILLIAMS, MRS HATTIE PLUM.= Social study of the Russian German. il pa
75c Univ. of Neb. 325.7 17-27036

  This work “embodies the results of a study undertaken under the
  auspices of the Department of political science and sociology in the
  University of Nebraska. The 6500 ‘Russians’ of Lincoln, Nebraska, are
  really Germans, ignorant of the Russian language, whose ancestors, a
  century and a half ago, settled in two Volga provinces. Thence, after
  various guaranteed liberties were withdrawn, they proceeded, in the
  years following 1870, to migrate to America, settling in Kansas,
  Nebraska and the Dakotas. The main period of their immigration began
  in 1898. On the basis of a canvass and of local records, Mrs Williams
  describes the character of their settlement in Lincoln, their families
  and their vital statistics in two chapters which she expects to extend
  into a book.”—Am Pol Sci R

  Reviewed by R. F. Foerster

       + =Am Econ R= 7:421 Je ‘17 160w

  “This is an excellent and exact study of what might be called the
  double-hyphen immigrant. ... A large amount of well-balanced material
  has been collected displaying customs, vital and social statistics,
  and tendencies. ... One cannot help being somewhat disappointed
  because the study is essentially objective. Familiar as the author is
  with the people themselves, the reader does not get inside them so as
  to see their psychological life.” H. A. Miller

       + =Am J Soc= 22:848 My ‘17 210w

         =Am Pol Sci R= 11:365 My ‘17 130w

  “Both sympathetic and scholarly. ... Mrs Williams has done an
  extremely useful piece of work; one of the best things of the kind we
  have seen.” I. C. Hannah

       + =Survey= 37:699 Mr 17 ‘17 170w


=WILLIAMS, J. E. HODDER=, ed. One young man. *75c (3c) Doran 940.91
17-14140

  “The simple and true story of a clerk who enlisted in 1914, who fought
  on the western front for nearly two years, was severely wounded at the
  battle of the Somme, and is now on his way back to his desk.”
  (Sub-title) The book is made up of short chapters telling of the
  experiences of the one young man in camp, on active service, etc.
  There are many quotations from his letters.

  “The documentary value of this little book lies wholly in the vision
  of utter devotion to country and cause that made of a mere human cog
  in a British mercantile house a fearless agent in England’s great war
  machine.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 15 ‘17 320w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ag 25 ‘17 240w

         =Cleveland= p130 D ‘17 40w

  “His story is of special interest because it is that of a man not a
  fighter by nature.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:382 O 7 ‘17 220w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:684 O ‘17

         =Pratt= p43 O ‘17 20w

       + =R of Rs= 56:325 S ‘17 40w

  “It was the Y. M. C. A. that introduced him to the sporting side of
  life. The book is a genuine tribute to a fine organization.”

       + =Sat R= 123:88 Ja 27 ‘17 270w

       + =Spec= 118:274 Mr 3 ‘17 1550w

  “Almost a typical transcription of what has been the lot of thousands
  of other ‘young men.’”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 My 20 ‘17 140w


=WILLIAMS, LAURENCE FREDERICK RUSHBROOK.= Four lectures on the handling
of historical material. (Allahabad univ. Dept. of modern Indian history
publications) *$1 Longmans 907 17-31913

  “The object of this volume is to make the reader realize the nature of
  the special training of the modern historical student, and the reasons
  which make this training necessary. The first two lectures discuss in
  detail the classification of historical material. The third indicates
  the pitfalls in the path of the historian. ... The fourth lecture
  treats the problem of personality in history. ... The author holds the
  chair of modern Indian history in Allahabad university.”—Cath World

  “These lectures were written for audiences consisting partly of Indian
  students, and partly of the general public. ... It is patent that the
  author is concerned rather with the impression his special audience
  was to receive than with the adequacy of his lectures as an
  examination of the problems of historical method. ... The omission,
  from his list of non-official sources, of newspapers and of
  literature, which is essential for the inner, ‘spiritual’ history of a
  people, is to be regretted. The difficulties of the historian in
  controlling his bias and in marshalling his evidence ought not to have
  been expounded without a setting forth of the scientific method of
  determining particular facts, so well known to students of Langlois
  and Seignobos. ... The foot-notes lack date and place of publication
  and usually the full name of the author. Lecture 3 warns against
  incomplete references and improperly charges German scholars with
  making them (p. 67).” G. C. Sellery

       — =Am Hist R= 23:203 O ‘17 420w

         =Cath World= 105:825 S ‘17 190w

  “It is impossible in three lectures to range, however superficially,
  over all history, and the confusion which the method excites is worse
  confounded by a singularly irrelevant fourth lecture on personality in
  history.” G.

       — =Eng Hist R= 32:627 O ‘17 260w

  “Able lectures on modern historical methods.”

         =Spec= 118:733 Je 30 ‘17 140w


=WILLIAMS, STANLEY THOMAS.= Richard Cumberland; his life and dramatic
works. il *$3 (3c) Yale univ. press 17-25291

  Richard Cumberland, poet, novelist, essayist, playwright, whose
  sensitiveness led Sheridan to caricature him as “Sir Fretful
  Plagiary,” possessed, according to Dr Williams, “a personality real,
  vital and unique in the history of English letters.” “Sources for this
  life have been found in the collections of plays, memoirs, diaries,
  and letters in the Yale and Harvard university libraries, and in
  original manuscripts of Cumberland in the British museum. Material has
  been drawn directly from the ‘Memoirs of Richard Cumberland, written
  by himself,’ published in 1806, and from Mudford’s ‘Life of Richard
  Cumberland,’ which appeared in 1812, one year after the death of the
  dramatist. ... The bibliography of eighteen pages contains a complete
  record of authorities used but does not attempt a compilation of the
  innumerable editions of Cumberland’s fifty-eight plays.” (Preface)
  There are several illustrations, the frontispiece is a portrait of
  Cumberland from the original painting by Romney in the National
  portrait gallery.

  “A valuable contribution both to the history of the drama and to the
  personal records of English literature.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 O 3 ‘17 700w

  “This is rather a long book to be all about ‘poor old Cumberland’ will
  be the first thought of those who take it up; but when it has been
  read it does not seem so long as was expected. Dr Williams believes
  ‘that the real interest of his book lies less in the plays than in the
  personality of their author,’ and he is right.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p19 Ja 10 ‘18 1950w


=WILLOUGHBY, WILLIAM FRANKLIN=, and others. System of financial
administration of Great Britain. *$2.75 Appleton 336.42 17-8477

  “This report is the result of an investigation made in Great Britain
  in the summer of 1914 by the authors acting as an unofficial
  commission, and is now published by the recently established Institute
  for government research [incorporated March 10, 1916]. It presents a
  detailed and somewhat technical account of the administrative
  procedure in the United Kingdom in connection with the preparation of
  estimates, the action thereon in Parliament, the disbursement of
  public funds, the treasury control over expenditures, the audit of
  public accounts and the system of financial reports. This is based on
  a close study of official documents and reports, especially the report
  of the Select committee on national expenditure (1902), and the report
  of the Select committee on estimates (1912).” (Ann Am Acad) The
  compilers are William F. Willoughby, constitutional adviser to the
  Chinese republic and professor of jurisprudence and politics at
  Princeton; Westel W. Willoughby, professor of political science at
  Johns Hopkins, and Samuel McCune Lindsay, professor of social
  legislation at Columbia. President Lowell of Harvard writes an
  introduction. Four appendices give acts, forms, etc.

  “It must not, however, be inferred that merely because the book is dry
  as dust it is not, also, to use a phrase common with reviewers, ‘an
  indispensable work of reference,’ It brings together, in handy
  compendium form, a large amount of data not readily accessible
  elsewhere. The materials are well arranged and easy to find, and the
  standing of the authors is a guarantee of accuracy.” C. C. Plehn

     + — =Am Econ R= 7:888 D ‘17 2100w

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:8 O ‘17

  “The movement for the establishment of a budgetary system at
  Washington has now given Great Britain the fullest and most
  serviceable treatise on its financial system it as yet possesses. In
  thus characterizing the Willoughby-Willoughby-Lindsay report it may be
  said at once that the writer of this note is not overlooking Hilton
  Young’s admirable monograph on ‘The system of national finance.’ But
  Young covers much more ground than Willoughby, Willoughby and
  Lindsay. ... Their book is concerned only with the appropriation of
  money by parliament, and with the system that the House of commons has
  devised and perfected since the beginning of the nineteenth
  century—chiefly in the years from 1834 to 1866—for controlling the
  expenditure of money that has been voted for the various services of
  the state.” E: Porritt

 *     + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:578 Ag ‘17 950w

  “This study should be of great value in working out improved budget
  and finance methods in this country. In the conclusions, the report
  calls attention to some fundamental factors which have been hitherto
  almost ignored in most of the writings on these subjects. ...
  Serviceable as is this report, it is in some respects open to
  criticism.” J: A. Fairlie

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 73:243 S ‘17 450w

         =Boston Transcript= p6 S 5 ‘17 290w

       + =Cleveland= p77 Je ‘17 20w

       + =Ind= 90:556 Je 23 ‘17 30w

  “The details relating to estimates, voting of moneys, auditing, etc.,
  are set forth accurately, and conclusions are drawn with more or less
  reference to our own situation. The volume is an important and timely
  contribution.”

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:855 O ‘17 280w

  “An admirably lucid volume which sets a high standard for the series
  it inaugurates. ... One can only say that no better account of the
  subject exists. It is not, of course, an exciting volume; though it is
  fully as clear as the subject allows. It is perhaps defective, though
  the authors admit the presence of this characteristic, in its analysis
  of the financial system in relation to the House of commons. It does
  not, as I think, allow sufficiently for the important fact that much
  of the success of the system is dependent thereon.” H. J. L.

 *     + =New Repub= 11:251 Je 30 ‘17 1150w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:91 Je ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:389 O 7 ‘17 800w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:690 O ‘17 70w

       + =R of Rs= 56:442 O ‘17 140w

         =St Louis= 15:340 S ‘17

  “Though in some respects slightly less detailed than Colonel Durell’s
  ‘Principles and practice of the system of control over parliamentary
  grants’ the American work is perhaps even more valuable to the general
  reader because it brings to bear an outside light upon our internal
  problems. ... Its three authors ... have produced a volume which ought
  to be of real public service on both sides of the Atlantic.”

 *     + =Spec= 119:220 S 1 ‘17 1100w

  “Proclaimed as the first authoritative detailed account of the system
  of financial administration of Great Britain. ... The plan of the work
  is admirably simple.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 24 ‘17 320w

  “For American students, however, ‘The financial administration of
  Great Britain’ will be superior to Young’s volume because of its many
  references to American practice and its conclusions in the way of
  lessons the United States may learn from Great Britain.” H. A. Millis

       + =Survey= 38:442 Ag 18 ‘17 600w


=WILLSIE, HONORÉ MCCUE (MRS HENRY ELMER WILLSIE).= Benefits forgot. il
*75c (7½c) Stokes 17-24971

  The publishers state that this “story of Lincoln and mother love” is
  “true in fact.” The greater part of the book deals with the boyhood of
  Jason Wilkins, son of a poor Methodist circuit-rider and a mother who
  loved to read and was willing to sacrifice all she had that her boy
  might get his medical education. He repaid her devotion by neglect.
  Finally he entered the Civil war as army surgeon. His mother, hearing
  nothing from him for months, supposed him dead and wrote to President
  Lincoln for information. Lincoln had young Wilkins arrested and
  brought to Washington. The last chapter gives the conversation between
  the two.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:134 Ja ‘18

  “With the obvious intention of pointing a moral as well as writing an
  entertaining short story, Mrs Willsie has succeeded admirably in both
  endeavors.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 5 ‘18 180w

  “Fine, true picture of mother love and sacrifice.”

       + =Cleveland= p133 D ‘17 20w


=WILLSIE, HONORÉ MCCUE (MRS HENRY ELMER WILLSIE).= Lydia of the pines.
il *$1.50 (1½c) Stokes 17-7817

  Lydia is an appealing little figure when we first meet her.
  Motherless, she plays the mother to her baby sister. The death of this
  baby leaves her still more lonely. She has her father, old Lizzie, her
  boy and girl friends, but there is a sad lack in her life. One of her
  tragedies, even then, was the matter of clothes! She had no mother to
  plan pretty things for her. Not till she was a senior in the
  university and could wear a cap and gown, did Lydia feel that she
  looked like other girls. All thru her childhood and girlhood, she has
  one true friend, John Levin, a politician, and it is a heartbreaking
  experience to learn later that he is a grafter of the worst type, one
  who has systematically robbed the Indian. This theme of the defrauding
  of the Indian is worked out thru the whole story. For the scene the
  author has given the capital city of Wisconsin a northern Minnesota
  setting.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:357 My ‘17

  “An excellent story of a human and lovable girl learning to be a
  woman. Its style, especially in the dialogue, is uncommonly sincere,
  the real vernacular, without exaggeration or codification.”

       + =Bookm= 45:208 Ap ‘17 400w

       + =Boston Transcript= p8 My 19 ‘17 380w

  “A clean, well-told story.”

       + =Cath World= 105:268 My ‘17 80w

  “A strong, unsparing portrayal of three or four welcomely human
  characters, several incidents entirely germane and not too thrilling,
  and a plot that is not marred, strangely, by a bit of pro-Indian
  propaganda about which Mrs Willsie seems to have been admirably in
  earnest.”

       + =Dial= 62:246 Mr 22 ‘17 150w

       + =Ind= 90:471 Je 9 ‘17 100w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 104:404 Ap 5 ‘17 90w

  “Somehow Mrs Willsie contrives to make an honestly American quality
  radiate from Lydia. All our embarrassed idealism and puzzled,
  inarticulate striving seem to find expression in her.”

       + =New Repub= 10:sup22 Ap 21 ‘17 250w

  “The novel might be called, indeed, the story of a personality, so
  strongly does Lydia dominate it and all the people by whom she is
  surrounded. Mrs Willsie has done a particularly fine piece of work in
  the way in which she has realized that personality, made it vital and
  convincing and, above all, thoroughly interesting for the reader. It
  marks a long step in advance of her previous books.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:62 F 25 ‘17 750w

  “The book is far more real than ‘Still Jim,’ and the style less
  disjointed. Moreover, there is much greater emotional power and a
  surer grasp of the whole story. The enormous wonder is how Mrs Willsie
  has ever managed to write it and edit the Delineator at the same time.
  It is a powerful story, and more than promising as an indication of
  the author’s future.” E. P. Wyckoff

       + =Pub W= 91:586 F 17 ‘17 300w

  “It is a fresh and cheerful tale, and always holds the reader’s
  interest.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 15 ‘17 320w

  “Somewhat overdrawn and unnatural, but interesting. The well drawn
  setting is Madison, the author’s girlhood home, and the University of
  Wisconsin.”

     + — =Wis Lib Bul= 13:159 My ‘17 80w


=WILLSON, ROBERT NEWTON.= Education of the young in sex hygiene. il *$2
(1c) Stewart & Kidd 612.6

  This book was published by the author in 1913. The present edition is
  a reprint. It is intended as a book of instruction for parents and
  teachers, those who are responsible for the sex instruction of the
  young. Two of the chapters, A talk with boys, and A talk with girls,
  are addresses directly to young people, but are included here as a
  suggestion of a method of approach. Among the chapters are: Economic
  relations of the social diseases; The boy—his need; The girl—her need;
  A brief talk on the heredity of health and disease, and the
  selfishness of unhygiene; When are the boy and girl to be taught, by
  whom, and how? The training of the teacher; The eradication of the
  social diseases in large cities.

  “It is thought by the author that boys and girls are taught to better
  advantage by word of mouth and largely by object demonstration than by
  the printed page. The book will undoubtedly prove a means of
  safeguarding hundreds, if not thousands, of boys and girls if parents,
  teachers and social workers give heed to its warnings.”

       + =Social Service Review= 5:24 Mr ‘17 180w


=WILSON, SIR CHARLES RIVERS.= Chapters from my official life; ed. by
Everilda MacAlister. *$3.50 Longmans (Eng ed 17-3144)

  “Sir C. Rivers Wilson did good work in many positions of trust,
  notably as one of the three English commissioners to the Monetary
  conference held at Brussels in 1892, as the representative of the
  English bondholders of the Central Pacific railway in 1894, and as
  president of the Grand trunk railway of Canada from 1895 to 1909; but
  his name will be best remembered in connection with Egyptian
  finance. ... His reminiscences do not belong to the same order of
  writings on Egypt as Lord Cromer’s and Lord Milner’s. ... Writing in a
  chatty style, he furnishes information on historic incidents by
  dwelling less on their logical sequence than on the undercurrents in
  the diplomatic life of the period to which they pertained.”—Nation

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:293 Ap ‘17

       + =Lit D= 54:1075 Ap 14 ‘17 650w

  “This frankness, together with the flavor they derive from the
  anecdotes freely interspersed, constitutes the chief attraction of his
  memoirs.”

       + =Nation= 104:270 Mr 8 ‘17 750w

       + =Sat R= 122:sup5 N 4 ‘16 950w

  “The main portion of his book is naturally devoted to his Egyptian
  experiences, and though by no means new, supplements in certain
  particulars the standard works of Lord Cromer, Lord Milner, and Sir
  Auckland Colvin.”

       + =Spec= 117:808 D 23 ‘16 400w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p484 O 12 ‘16 550w


=WILSON, ERNEST HENRY.= Aristocrats of the garden. il *$5 (7½c)
Doubleday 715 17-9126

  This book is brought out in an edition limited to 1,200 copies. Among
  its chapters are: The story of the modern rose, Midseason flowering
  trees and shrubs, The best of the hardy climbing shrubs, Ornamental
  fruited trees and shrubs, The best hardy conifers, Broad-leaved
  evergreens for northern gardens, Japanese cherries and Asiatic
  crabapples. New herbaceous plants from China. There are eighteen
  illustrations. The author is a member of the staff of the Arnold
  arboretum and author of “A naturalist in western China.”

  “For many years, Mr Wilson explored the secluded portions of eastern
  Asia—especially in China and Japan—searching for new plants and trees
  and shrubs suited to the climate of western gardens. The story of his
  journey through China in search of the fabled ‘Davidia’ makes one of
  the most delightful portions of a book of delight. It will send more
  than one reader to the Arnold Arboretum on a new errand.” F. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p12 Ap 7 ‘17 700w

  “A very beautiful book.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:191 My 13 ‘17 140w


=WILSON, WOODROW.= Why we are at war. *50c (3½c) Harper 353 17-13747

  A small volume containing President Wilson’s messages to Congress and
  to the American people, delivered between January and April, 1917.
  Contents: A world league for peace; The severance of diplomatic
  relations with Germany; Request for a grant of power; We must accept
  war; A state of war; “Speak, act, and serve together.”

         =A L A Bkl= 14:21 O ‘17

  “The title is unfortunate in so far as it does not properly describe
  the contents of the book. The second inaugural speech, delivered on
  March 5 last, should, in our opinion, have found a place in the
  collection.”

     + — =Ath= p466 S ‘17 80w

  “The addresses in the great little volume are all instinct with the
  purpose of leadership.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:193 My 20 ‘17 2600w


=WINDLE, SIR BERTRAM COGHILL ALAN.= Church and science. *$3 Herder 215

  The author is a well-known anatomist and archaeologist and is
  president of University college, Cork. “The book’s message is that the
  advance of science brings with it constantly increasing testimony to
  the impossibility of antagonism between the church and any form of
  truth; that the fancied enmity originated in premature acceptance and
  proclamation as facts of what were in reality only theories, and that
  wisdom decrees for the scientist an attitude of humility and patience,
  and for the Catholic a happy security in the knowledge that any theory
  that may seem to conflict with Catholic dogma will assuredly, in the
  course of time, be either proved false and cast aside, or found, when
  more closely viewed, to be in accordance with the faith.” (Cath World)

  “It is a layman’s manual, of intense interest and written with the
  author’s accustomed force and charm. ... The reader is made acquainted
  with an imposing array of achievements of the highest order that must
  be credited to Catholic scientists from the ranks of both the clergy
  and the laity. ... The book should be upon the shelves of every
  Catholic library, public and private. ... Above all it should, by
  every means possible, be circulated among young men, at this time when
  thousands of every faith and of none are going forth to share the life
  of camp and trench.”

       + =Cath World= 106:114 O ‘17 900w

         =St Louis= 15:318 S ‘17 10w

  “His object is not so much to undertake the reconciliation of science
  and religious belief as to set out the attitude of science on all
  these problems and to determine how far it actually conflicts with
  dogmatic religion.”

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p156 Mr 29 ‘17 270w


=WINSLOW, CARROLL DANA.= With the French flying corps. il *$1.25
Scribner 940.91 17-1909

  “The author, a young American who enlisted in the French flying corps
  soon after the beginning of the war, went through the various exacting
  grades of flying-school preparation for the French army, and after
  seven months of training was passed on into regular army aviation
  work. ... It is specialized without being too technical. Its
  exposition and narrative of French army aviation training give us
  fully, simply, and interestingly information on a little-understood
  phase of the war.”—N Y Times

         =A L A Bkl= 13:310 Ap ‘17

       + =Cleveland= p46 Mr ‘17 30w

  “In terms easily understood by a layman he conveys much interesting
  information on the art and science of aviation in war. His pictures,
  especially those from photographs taken at various heights, form a
  welcome accompaniment to the reading matter.” P. F. Bicknell

       + =Dial= 62:307 Ap 5 ‘17 160w

         =Ind= 90:298 My 12 ‘17 50w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:46 Mr ‘17

       + =N Y Times= 22:141 Ap 15 ‘17 160w

         =Pratt= p43 O ‘17 30w

  “A book which anyone interested in war aviation should read. ...
  Especially valuable is the account of his seven months’ training in
  the various branches of military aviation, which should do much to
  impress upon Americans the important fact that competent military
  aviators cannot be made in a few weeks, but that it requires a
  thorough course lasting from six to nine months.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:549 My ‘17 90w

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 D 1 ‘17 180w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p530 N 1 ‘17 170w

  “Makes thrilling reading for boys.”

       + =Wis Lib Bul= 13:124 Ap ‘17 30w


=WINSLOW, KENELM.= Prevention of disease. il *$1.75 (2c) Saunders 613
16-23537

  This is a popular treatise for the layman. It opens with three
  chapters on personal hygiene, devoted to habits of right living. These
  are followed by discussions of special diseases and disorders, germ
  diseases, cancer, sexual diseases, rheumatism, diseases of children,
  nervous and mental diseases, etc. Dr Winslow was formerly assistant
  professor of comparative anatomy in Harvard medical school and is now
  practicing physician in Seattle, connected with the Seattle city
  hospital and King county hospital. Dr Charles H. Mayo of St Mary’s
  hospital, Rochester, Minn., contributes an introduction to the volume.

  “Contains chapters on food poisoning, the prevention of some
  deformities, and a full chapter on sexual diseases and hygiene, which
  will debar it from the open shelves.”

         =A L A Bkl= 13:299 Ap ‘17

  “A popular book that might well find a place on the teacher’s desk and
  in the school library.”

       + =Educ R= 54:208 S ‘17 60w

  “The author is fortunate in the method he adopts. He does not attempt
  to lay a preliminary foundation of anatomical knowledge, an effort
  that is almost always futile because it seeks to furnish by diagram
  and description the kind of knowledge that can only be obtained by
  first-hand acquaintance with the things themselves. He uses the more
  effective mode of stating fundamental results simply and clearly and
  in terms comprehensible to any intelligent reader.”

       + =Nation= 105:276 S 6 ‘17 170w

  “The volume is clear and interesting in its presentation of many facts
  of hygiene, germ diseases, mental and nervous diseases, troubles of
  digestion, etc., facts that should be part of the general knowledge.
  Its danger is that of the type it belongs to—lest in some particular
  case the printed page be relied upon in place of personal examination
  and the verdict of a physician.” G. S.

       + =Survey= 37:586 F 17 ‘17 190w


=WISCONSIN UNIVERSITY. LIBRARY SCHOOL.= Apprentice course for small
libraries. il 75c A.L.A. 020.2

  These “outlines of lessons, with suggestions for practice work, study
  and required reading” by the faculty of the Library school of the
  University of Wisconsin—(Mary Emogene Hazeltine, Helen Turvill, Mary
  F. Carpenter and Marion Humble)—first appeared in the Wisconsin
  Library Bulletin, October, 1914 to July, 1915, v. 10-11. “The matter
  contained in the original series has been revised and is offered
  herewith in the hope that it may continue to prove useful in this more
  convenient form. The subject matter is presented for the most part in
  outline, but it has seemed desirable to vary the style in the
  different chapters according to the nature of each subject. Methods
  given are naturally those advocated by the Wisconsin library school,
  and references to the Wisconsin Library Bulletin are frequent.
  Amendment and change to suit local practice will be needed. In this
  revision heed has been taken of the helpful criticisms which have been
  made upon the series by librarians who have used it.” (Introd.)

         =Pittsburgh= 22:772 N ‘17


=WISE, JENNINGS CROPPER.= Call of the Republic. *$1 (4c) Dutton 355.7
17-12273

  A plea for universal military service. “It has been attempted to show
  that such a system is not only highly democratic in conception and in
  its practical working, but that the cherished volunteer mercenary
  system is undemocratic both in origin and effect.” (Introd.) Contents:
  The ancient medieval military systems; Origin and development of the
  modern national army; Military service in its most democratic form;
  The English ideal of voluntary service; The inherited American ideal;
  The American military system; The ideal military institution; The fear
  of militarism unreasonable. There is a short bibliography at the
  close.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:8 O ‘17

  “A clear, well-argued case against the military system that has
  prevailed for so many years in this country.”

       + =Cath World= 105:836 S ‘17 100w

  “There is practically nothing on the Swiss and Australian systems, in
  which our people are mainly interested.”

         =Ind= 91:110 Jl 21 ‘17 50w

  “Most Socialists are familiar with the assertion that universal
  military service means the highest type of democracy. Col. Wise simply
  enlarges on that and brings his work to a conclusion with a highly
  poetical, metaphysical, mystical and prophetic peroration. The work,
  however, is well written, and the author has undoubtedly made a good
  presentation of his case. The real value of the work, in our opinion,
  consists, however, in the historical matter given. And its cleverness
  consists in not pushing property considerations of ancient times into
  the present.”

         =N Y Call= p15 My 13 ‘17 630w

         =Pratt= p15 O ‘17 10w

         =R of Rs= 55:668 Je ‘17 40w

  “A well-thought-out, carefully stated argument for universal
  compulsory military service and training in the United States. ... But
  when the author exalts the social and moral advantage of ‘a powerful
  army’ the reader becomes more and more dubious. To hear that we must
  cast aside the fatuous doctrines of misguided, over-zealous
  humanitarians sounds like an echo of Von Bissing. And finally, he
  strikes the full Prussian note when he asks: ‘Shall we deny the wisdom
  of God who imposes upon His people the ordeal of battle?’” W. E. K.

     – + =Survey= 38:532 S 15 ‘17 530w


=WITHERS, HARTLEY.= Meaning of money. new ed *$1.25 Dutton 332 (Eng ed
17-13479)

  “The first edition came from the press in 1909, and now the fourth
  edition makes its appearance. ... This last edition has been made
  necessary by the war. The author says in his preface to this edition:
  ‘It may be added that the chief thesis worked out in the book needs a
  slight extension in the light of the war’s experience. ... Owing to
  the great extent of the investments made by the banks, in their
  patriotic readiness to finance the war by buying government
  securities, we now have to recognize that investments made by banks
  have the same effect on their deposits as loans advanced by
  them.’”—Boston Transcript

  “The book has established itself as a standard of its class, and in
  this latest edition will prove more valuable than ever.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 My 19 ‘17 270w

  “Some sections of the book—such as the account of England’s ‘invisible
  exports’—are so ably written as to be of value to the student as well
  as to the general reader. The work can be recommended from any
  relevant point of view.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 S 25 ‘16 420w


=WITHERS, HARTLEY.= Our money and the state. *$1.25 Button 336 17-31785

  This book is based on lectures delivered by the author at the London
  School of economics in February and March, 1917. “After discussing the
  limitations of state action, and consequently of state expenditure and
  taxation, and contrasting the laisser faire with the alternative
  socialistic school of general interference with our individual
  activities, the author arrives at a compromise between the two extreme
  views. The argument is accepted that logically the state is entitled
  to take all our goods and services in promoting the public good; but
  Mr Withers observes that the exercise of this right is circumscribed
  by the ability of the taxpayer to ‘strike.’ ... Mr Withers then
  proceeds to discuss the two methods by which the government can
  acquire such goods and services as are needed by it—taxation or loan.
  The author’s predilection is in favour of the first alternative,
  taxation pure and simple. ... The keynote of the argument is that
  ‘posterity never pays.’” (Sat R) “Mr Withers further pleads for direct
  taxation, and criticizes the schemes of the Fabians and of the Empire
  resources committee for paying off the war debt by means of state
  enterprise.” (Ath)

         =A L A Bkl= 14:152 F ‘18

  “This work is one to make the voter and taxpayer think.”

         =Ath= p466 S ‘17 220w

         =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 23 ‘18 140w

  “Written with that lucidity which is characteristic of Mr Withers’
  many contributions to economic literature. ... On the subject of
  taxation generally, Mr Withers confounds ethics with financial
  policy.”

         =Sat R= 124:150 Ag 25 ‘17 950w

  “Compactness and lucidity of treatment combined with a vitally
  important subjectmatter.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p382 Ag 9 ‘17 90w

  “It will be useful to the average man. ... The first chapter on ‘The
  objects of governmental spending,’ is, in view of the overwhelming
  importance at the moment of the financial needs of the war, of more
  general interest than the others; for it gives a lucid and terse
  description of the general principles on which the collection of money
  from the people by the government is justified. ... Mr Withers is
  prepared to go some way in company with the enthusiasts who wish to
  establish a collectivist state; but he does so with great caution and
  some misgiving.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p386 Ag 16 ‘17 1900w


=WODEHOUSE, PELHAM GRENVILLE.= Piccadilly Jim. il *$1.40 (2c) Dodd
17-6534

  Jimmy Crocker was a young American who had worked on a New York
  newspaper up to the time when his father married a wealthy widow. Then
  he went to London with his family, and with too much money and too
  much leisure at his command got into mischief. His escapades, written
  up at length in the New York press, brought his step-mother’s sister
  to London with the worthy intention of taking him back to New York and
  putting him to work. It is Ann Chester, however, who succeeds in
  saving him from himself. Ann is the niece of the man who is married to
  his step-mother’s sister. The relationships in the story really are
  complicated! So is the plot. The step-mother’s sister’s young son
  plays a part in it. So does a nephew who is inventing a new explosive.
  So does Jimmy’s baseball-loving father, exiled in London, far from his
  native diamond.

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:317 Ap ‘17

  “The complications and characters give occasion for many laughs in
  particular, Ogden, the spoiled rich boy.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Ja 26 ‘18 160w

  “Lightly handled and full of farcical surprises, but not quite up to
  the mark of ‘Something new.’”

         =Cleveland= p64 My ‘17 100w

  “The tale is swift-moving, highly ingenious, and very funny—not quite
  so funny, nor quite so ingenious as ‘Something new,’ perhaps, but very
  entertaining all the same.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:63 F 25 ‘17 520w

  “A breezy farcical tale.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 Mr 4 ‘17 230w


=WOLFE, ALBERT BENEDICT=, ed. Readings in social problems. (Selections
and documents in economics) $2.80 Ginn 304 16-22272

  “The social problems discussed in this book of readings are five-fold:
  immigration, marriage and divorce, the woman problem, the negro
  problem, and an interrelated group of population problems. The latter
  includes such subjects as the Malthusian theory of population, the
  declining birth rate, socialism and population, eugenics, infant
  mortality, and the ethics of population policies. The editor’s
  comments introduce the discussion of each problem.”—Ann Am Acad

  “Professor Wolfe gives evidence of wide knowledge of the literature
  and of careful discrimination in his choice of the selections which he
  has brought together. ... He displays an admirable impartiality in his
  selections, concealing very successfully any predilections he may have
  in one direction or another. ... The book will be found to be a
  valuable reference work for those already somewhat familiar with the
  topics treated, and undoubtedly an excellent educational medium for
  the student who approaches the subject for the first time.” H: P.
  Fairchild

       + =Am Econ R= 7:164 Mr ‘17 450w

  “This admirable volume of readings provides abundant materials for the
  study of certain bio-sociological problems of the greatest importance.
  It brings together for the first time in convenient form data and
  balanced discussion by competent and often classic authors bearing
  upon the great problems of population, sex and race.” E. B. Woods

       + =Am J Soc= 22:840 My ‘17 570w

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:335 My ‘17

         =Am Pol Sci R= 11:361 My ‘17 150w

  “References are given at the close of the discussion of each specific
  topic. These bibliographical references are well chosen and usable.”
  J. G. S.

       + =Ann Am Acad= 70:332 Mr ‘17 210w

         =Ath= p38 Ja ‘17 100w

  “The book is well made, like the rest of the series, and should have a
  considerable utility for classes in social science.”

       + =Nation= 104:559 My 3 ‘17 200w

  “What Manly, Newcomer and Gayley have done for students in English
  literature, Professor Wolfe has done for his classes in economics and
  sociology in the University of Texas. ... The book has an evident
  value in its professed field, but its value extends beyond this
  specific limit. Many a teacher of English composition, who has
  grappled with the task of finding a subject which shall stimulate
  clear thinking and vigorous expression, may turn with relief to some
  of the important matters suggested in this book.” G. S.

       + =Survey= 38:46 Ap 14 ‘17 230w


=WOLFE, OLIVER HOWARD.= Practical banking. il $2 LaSalle extension univ.
332 17-22550

  “The purpose of this book is to explain the fundamental principles
  which underlie practical banking work in such a manner that they may
  be helpful to both students and bankers. ... It is possible for a
  person fortified with such basic knowledge to acquire worth-while
  experience in the higher branches of banking much faster and to
  perform his own work better than without such well-organized
  knowledge. ... No attempt has been made to describe those phases of
  practical banking which, as a rule, can be mastered only by actual
  experience.” (Preface) The book has chapters on: Organization and
  administration; Bank accounting; The receiving teller; The note
  teller; The transit department; Loans and discounts; Individual
  ledgers; The general ledger; Audits and examinations, etc. The author
  is assistant cashier of the Philadelphia national bank.

  “The author speaks from actual experience and with authority, on
  matters of vital importance to those about to enter the banking
  business or already engaged in it.”

       + =Ind= 92:345 N 17 ‘17 100w

  “The value of the treatise lies in Mr Wolfe’s clear explanation of the
  ordinary functions of banks and the routine of their work.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 12 ‘18 120w


=WOLFF, HENRY WILLIAM.= Co-operative credit for the United States.
*$1.50 (1½c) Sturgis & Walton 332.7 17-18066

  This volume is by the late president of the International cooperative
  alliance and the author of “People’s banks”; “Cooperative credit
  banks”; “Cooperation in agriculture,” etc. The same ground has, up to
  the dates of publication of the several works, been covered by Mr
  Wolff in earlier books written specifically for British readers. In
  this book he tries to “present the same picture in a manner suited to
  the ideas and habits of an American public.” The opening chapter tells
  us Why cooperative credit is wanted. The author then discusses the
  principles of cooperative credit, how they are worked out in various
  countries, and how they may be adapted to American conditions.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:43 N ‘17

  “Will be of great value to those who want to learn the practical
  workings of the system abroad and the adaptability of these plans to
  American conditions.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:597 Ag ‘17 140w

  “A welcome volume by the well-known author of ‘People’s banks.’ ...
  The conclusion is distinctly optimistic as to the future of
  co-operative credit in the United States.”

       + =J Pol Econ= 25:760 Jl ‘17 80w

  “Clear and concise.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 O 12 ‘17 140w

  “Along the lines pointed out by Mr Wolff is the hope for the new
  agriculture, and for securing for small tradesmen and workers that
  economic emancipation which credit alone can give.” H. F. Grady

         =Survey= 38:574 S 29 ‘17 200w


Woman suffrage year book, 1917; ed. by Martha Gause Stapler; articles
upon special subjects contributed by Mary Sumner Boyd. pa $1.05 National
woman suffrage pub. 324.3 17-7468

  “In compiling the ‘Woman suffrage year book’ the aim has been to
  collect, from different sources, facts chiefly of current and
  statistical nature, and to arrange them for easy reference under one
  cover. The first part of the book deals with the progress, extent and
  results of woman suffrage; the second part deals with the action which
  various states have taken upon certain questions affecting women and
  children; the third part deals with miscellaneous information for the
  general use of suffrage workers and others.” (Preface) It is planned
  to issue the year book in January of each year with a calendar of
  events and with statistical information brought up to date.

         =A L A Bkl= 13:379 Je ‘17

  “Contains excellent tables and bibliographies.”

       + =Cleveland= p78 Je ‘17 50w


=WOOD, CLARENCE ASHTON.= School and college credit for outside Bible
study; a survey of a nonsectarian movement to encourage Bible study.
$1.50 (2c) World bk. 377 17-13268

  Vernon P. Squires, of the University of North Dakota, says in his
  introduction to the book, “Test after test given to the brightest
  young people of our country in schools and colleges has shown a most
  lamentable ignorance of the greatest of English classics, the English
  Bible, and of the fundamental and historical facts lying back of
  religious faith.” With a view to remedying this condition, movements
  for cooperation between church and state in the matter of Bible study,
  seem to have sprung up simultaneously in many parts of the country.
  The purpose of the author of this work has been to trace the
  development of these various movements, and to bring all the facts
  about their methods and aims together. There is a bibliography at the
  close and an appendix gives the syllabus adopted for high schools in
  North Dakota.

         =A L A Bkl= 14:152 F ‘18

         =Cleveland= p9 Ja ‘18 70w

         =Ind= 91:297 Ag 25 ‘17 80w

  “Should be in the hands of all teachers.”

       + =Outlook= 115:669 Ap 11 ‘17 250w

  “A body of material of great practical value. Since the author
  discusses the plan of giving credit for outside Bible study as it is
  now applied in higher, secondary, and elementary education, his book
  should be of interest to a rather large audience.”

       + =School R= 25:527 S ‘17 280w


=WOOD, CLEMENT.= Glad of earth. $1 Gomme 811 17-13412

  “This first book by Clement Wood contains ‘polyrhythmic poems,’
  unrhymed verse of the variety commonly known as vers libre. ... There
  are three groups: ‘Glad of earth,’ portraits of individuals and types;
  ‘Comrades,’ ardent love poems, and ‘New roads,’ socialistic poems that
  protest against conditions that hamper individual development. ... Mr
  Wood won the prize offered in the 250th anniversary of the city of
  Newark poetry competition with ‘The smithy of God.’”—R of Rs

  “Both Mr Untermeyer and Mr Wood make the mistake of dragging their
  ethics about with them. Both have their moments of vividness and
  beauty, but uncertainly, and in conjunction with much that is muddily
  perceived, scarcely felt, and vaguely phrased.” Conrad Aiken

       — =Dial= 62:476 My 31 ‘17 250w

  “A distinctly valuable contribution, not only to the literature of
  revolt, but to literature in itself.” D: P. Berenberg

       + =N Y Call= p13 Ap 22 ‘17 1100w

  “As a whole, they are intensely human and inspiring.”

       + =R of Rs= 55:440 Ap ‘17 170w

  “Mr Wood has a vigor of expression that holds the attention whatever
  one may think of the polyrhythmic lines in which it is cast. His fault
  is the universal shortcoming of the vers librist—a deftness with words
  that frame an admirable bit of description, but are none the less void
  of the emotion and fire which is the prerequisite of poetry.”

         =Springf’d Republican= p13 Je 17 ‘17 150w


=WOOD, ERIC.= Thrilling deeds of British airmen. il *$1.65 (3c) Crowell
940.91 A17-1632

  “This little book is not a serious study of aircraft in war, but, as
  its title indicates, a compilation of thrilling deeds of British
  airmen chosen from a very large number to illustrate various types and
  phases of aerial operations. Sometimes the telling has been in the
  nature of making bricks without straw, because of the absence of
  details in so many official reports. I trust, however, that in
  expanding such terse accounts of what obviously were heroic incidents
  I have not done violence to truth. My aim has been to present what
  were probably the facts, and I have carefully followed the suggestions
  contained in the brief originals with that object in view.” (Preface)
  The book has eight full-page illustrations.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:138 Ja ‘18

       + =Boston Transcript= p11 D 5 ‘17 180w

  “Valor and skill can go no further than in some of the deeds recorded
  here.”

     + — =New Repub= 13:27 N 3 ‘17 390w

  “The stories are straight-forwardly told, with no parade of
  technicalities, and should appeal to boys.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p382 Ag 9 ‘17 60w

  “The writer is handicapped by the parcimony with which our war office,
  for reasons which we do not presume to criticize, publishes the names
  of the authors of sensational achievements; but he does his best with
  such material as is at his disposition, and his best is good.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p622 D 13 ‘17 100w


=WOOD, ERIC FISHER.=[2] Note-book of an intelligence officer. il *$1.75
Century 940.91 17-30602

  “By the author of ‘The notebook of an attaché’ and ‘The handwriting on
  the wall.’ The book is based on letters written to the author’s mother
  and contains chapters on: New York to Liverpool; American publicity;
  The British postal censorship; Lloyd George; Raemaekers; Northcliffe;
  To France; British insignia, equipment and decorations;
  Second-lieutenant John Masefield; The will to use the bayonet; The
  German retreat from the Somme, etc.”

  “Holds the same keen interest as ‘The notebook of an attaché.’”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:125 Ja ‘18

         =Cleveland= p1 Ja ‘18 70w

       + =Lit D= 55:45 D 29 ‘17 400w

  “There is no mistaking the inspirer of the book. To Lord Northcliffe,
  the author is indebted for these favors, and he offers praise ad
  nauseam.”

     – + =Nation= 105:672 D 13 ‘17 290w

  “He does not write with any special distinction. But the actual
  information that he has to give us from the war is interesting and
  valuable.”

     + — =N Y Times= 23:3 Ja 6 ‘18 400w

  “These notes are fragmentary and give no real picture of the war.”

     – + =Pittsburgh= 22:827 D ‘17 40w

       + =R of Rs= 57:101 Ja ‘18 80w


=WOOD, HAROLD BACON.= Sanitation practically applied. il *$3 (2c) Wiley
614 17-13582

  This work, by the assistant commissioner of the West Virginia state
  department of health, has chapters devoted to: The need for public
  health work; Statistics; The control of communicable disease; Child
  welfare; School hygiene; Pure foods; Clean milk; Water supplies;
  Sewage disposal; Hygiene of the home and factory; The destruction of
  insects which transmit disease; The educational movement. “The book is
  offered as a corollary to the numerous excellent treatises on the
  theory of hygiene and the laboratory manuals, since the man in the
  field desires to know how sanitation of the home, of the school, of
  the factory and of the community can actually be obtained.” (Preface)

  “The discussion of even the most technical subjects is made simple and
  the practical side of every problem receives primary emphasis. In
  point of clearness and interest the style is much superior to that
  which readers encounter in most books of its kind.”

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:792 N ‘17 100w

  “The chapter on water-supplies includes a confusing discussion on
  whether a city should build water-works or sewers first. Under sewage
  disposal there are a number of statements which are likely to mislead
  the uninformed. A little revision here and there would clarify and
  correct these questionable passages in the new edition which a book so
  good in the main deserves at an early date.”

     + — =Engin News-Rec= 79:326 Ag 16 ‘17 240w

  “Although intended primarily for health officers and students of
  public health topics, it forms a very readable general treatise.”

       + =Pittsburgh= 22:820 D ‘17 20w

       + =Quar List New Tech Bks= Jl ‘17 50w

  “His audience is primarily the man in the field. But the employer,
  too, and the employe, business manager and public official will find
  practical direction in the well printed pages. Here, too, is
  enlightenment for the student of affairs.” G. S.

       + =Survey= 39:170 N 17 ‘17 250w


=WOOD, MICHAEL.= Mystery of Gabriel. il *$1.40 (4c) Longmans 17-29539

  At twenty-nine, Honor Forranner is set free from the responsibilities
  to which she has devoted her years since girlhood. But her freedom is
  not of long duration, for she willingly accepts the new responsibility
  that is offered her in the person of an orphan child found by the
  roadside. It is this boy, Gabriel, who becomes the central point of
  interest in this serious and deeply analytical novel. With the years
  of adolescence, the boy grows away from his adoptive mother. He is
  subject to strange moods which are the result either of hereditary
  traits, or of fear of heredity. For, unknown to those interested in
  his welfare, he has as a child overheard conversations in which the
  possibility of evil tendencies developing in children of unknown
  parentage has been discussed. Father Anthony Standish, an Anglican
  priest, has a strong hold on the boy, and there is a touch of the
  mystical, even the supernatural, in the scenes in which Gabriel is set
  free from his obsession.

  “Though the greater part of it may seem too mystical for the majority
  of readers, there is much that should appeal as common sense to all.”

     + — =Ath= p681 D ‘17 40w

  “Very interesting and unusual book.”

       + =Cath World= 106:841 Mr ‘18 160w

  “This is a story of unusual quality. ... As a psychological study it
  is both subtle and powerful, though it leaves the reader somewhat
  disappointed when the heart of the mystery is plucked out. ... Readers
  of Mr Wood’s former volumes know how thoroughly they are penetrated
  with the beauty and mysticism of the Catholic element in the Church of
  England. The same atmosphere pervades the closing chapters of ‘The
  mystery of Gabriel.’”

     + — =N Y Times= 22:491 N 25 ‘17 470w

  “There is for some tastes a little too much of the confessional in
  this development of the story, and others may feel that such a plot
  lies too far off the track of ordinary human experience to move them
  much; but there is a delicacy in the handling that goes some way to
  compensate these defects, if they are such.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p494 O 11 ‘17 190w


=WOODBERRY, GEORGE EDWARD.= Ideal passion. $1.50 Woodberry soc., c.o. W.
B. Symmes, jr., 55 Liberty st., N.Y. 811 17-11925

  A sequence of forty-two sonnets “that reconcile the love of sensuous
  beauty with the high consecration of spirit to the pure love of the
  ideal.” (R of Rs) “By a curious paradox, these poems are revealing—and
  uncommunicative. Never did a reality so distinct find embodiment in a
  frame so impalpable. The reader has a double sense of intimacy and
  estrangement.” (Nation)

  “A few double rhymes and some elisions would relieve the impeccable
  uniformity of rhythm. Though the love he sings is ideal, there is true
  passion in his verse, if a passion bloodless and ethereal.”

     + — =Ath= p310 Je ‘17 200w

  “It is even at its best, however, a cold and remote sort of beauty;
  one soon gets tired of so chill a sanctity, and Mr Woodberry is not so
  perfect an artist but that often, even in the most quiet precincts,
  the reader suddenly and with a start remembers how long a journey he
  has come from reality.” Conrad Aiken

     – + =Dial= 63:56 Jl 19 ‘17 420w

  “These are sonnets of love so sublimated that it retains little of its
  warm humanity; so detached from the usual personal and racial meanings
  as to be mystical and austere. Mr Woodberry’s readers will of
  necessity, be kindred spirits to whom this type of idealism makes an
  appeal.”

     + — =Ind= 90:553 Je 23 ‘17 100w

  “They give—what American verse so rarely gives—a sense of depth and
  riches in the antecedent experience. Of that report on the universe
  which we call literature, they are a part. ... Mr Woodberry has his
  inadvertencies. ... He should not rhyme ‘trance’ with ‘haunts,’ ...
  nor should he abase himself to the dissolute syntax of the sextet in
  sonnet thirteen. These are plain blemishes, and my rigor—the rigor of
  homage—is not to be placated. Pardon is for the mob; to the elect
  nothing is forgivable.” O. W. Firkins

   + + — =Nation= 105:400 O 11 ‘17 400w

       + =R of Rs= 55:660 Je ‘17 40w


=WOODBRIDGE, ELISABETH (MRS CHARLES GOULD MORRIS).= Days out, and other
papers. *$1.25 (3c) Houghton 814 17-30261

  Readers of the Contributor’s club of the Atlantic Monthly will be
  pleased, altho perhaps not surprised, to learn that one of the authors
  who publish delightful papers anonymously is Elisabeth Woodbridge.
  Some of these contributions are included among the essays collected in
  this book. One of these is fittingly entitled The wine of anonymity.
  Among the other papers are: Days out; A brief for the hat; Cult of the
  second-best; The embarrassment of finality; Humor and the heroine;
  Manners and the Puritan.

  “Slight, friendly, entertaining essays. Will not be as popular as ‘The
  Jonathan papers.’”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:158 F ‘18

         =Nation= 106:149 F 7 ‘18 400w

  “We always feel that we are listening to talk which is cultured but
  not pretentious, kindly but not forcedly humorous, and, in the fullest
  sense, human.”

       + =Outlook= 117:575 D 5 ‘17 100w

       + =R of Rs= 57:217 F ‘18 50w

  “The essays are all delightful, crisp, original. Each one stops before
  the reader is ready to let go, and the reading of the next as a solace
  produces the same desire to keep on.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 220w


=WOODBURY, ROBERT MORSE.= Social insurance; an economic analysis.
(Cornell studies in history and political science) *$1.25 Holt 331.25
17-11011

  “This book is a critical study submitted in 1915 to the faculty of the
  graduate school of Cornell university. The author is now a professor
  of economics in the University of Kansas.” (St Louis) “The book
  presents an attempt ‘to study the question of the burden of insurance
  critically.’ ... Not only does the author endeavor to solve this
  complex problem as to the ‘incidence of social insurance charges,’ but
  also ‘to reach a reasoned conclusion with respect to the wisdom of a
  policy of social insurance.’ ... He finds that instead of destroying
  thrift, social insurance will rather encourage and stimulate it; that
  compulsory insurance against sickness and accident and superannuation
  is a definite step towards elimination of poverty.” (Survey)

  “The volume will be especially helpful to those whom it is intended to
  serve; namely, persons who desire in brief form specific information
  and critical discussion on the problem of social-insurance costs. It
  presents facts in place of fears, hopes, and assumptions.” J: A. Ryan

       + =Am J Soc= 23:416 N ‘17 420w

         =Cleveland= p9 Ja ‘18 30w

         =St Louis= 15:169 Je ‘17 30w

  “Professor Woodbury’s study may safely be recommended as the first
  serious effort to analyze the problem of cost.” I. M. Rubinow

     + — =Survey= 38:533 S 15 ‘17 450w


=WOODHOUSE, HENRY.= Textbook of naval aeronautics; introd. by Rear
Admiral Bradley A. Fiske. il *$6 Century 623.7 17-18983

  The book “is chiefly descriptive and historical. Some of the many
  photographs are like graphic illustrations of chapters in an early
  Wells scientific romance. There is all the information necessary for
  the prospective aeronaut—chapters on aerial photography, radio
  telegraphy, night flying, instruments for aerial navigation, courses
  of instruction and required qualifications of personnel for the air
  service of the United States navy, training, navigation over water,
  submarine hunting by aircraft, locating submerged mines, etc., etc. No
  factual aspect of naval aeronautics is omitted.”—New Repub

         =A L A Bkl= 14:47 N ‘17

  “As a textbook it is cumbered with a vast mass of extremely
  interesting but rather irrelevant matter. An instructor making use of
  it would have to skip about from one end to the other of its 274
  pages; but it is provided with an elaborate index compiled by Howard
  L. Goodhart.” N. H. D.

     + — =Boston Transcript= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 550w

       + =Cleveland= p103 S ‘17 80w

  “It is clear, truthful as to difficulties, expository in the best
  sense.” H. S.

       + =New Repub= 11:312 Jl 14 ‘17 1050w


=WOODLEY, OSCAR ISRAEL, and WOODLEY, M. VIRGINIA.= Profession of
teaching. *$1.35 (1½c) Houghton 371 17-25134

  This book has been written in answer to a challenge, to the effect
  that teaching is not a profession. In the carrying out of their
  purpose the authors were first called upon to discover the nature of a
  profession. This is done in the first chapter. The remainder of the
  book is a study of the particular requirements demanded of those who
  wish to be teachers in a truly professional sense. Contents:
  Profession defined; School ethics; The ultimate aim of education;
  Happiness as related to education; The social function of the school;
  The relation of the school to the state; The learning process; Correct
  concepts necessary for right thinking; The teaching process; The
  recitation; Subject-matter; Vocational education; Vocational guidance;
  The child’s ability known and utilized; The fundamental concept. Each
  chapter is followed by a brief reading list and the book is further
  made useful as a text by the inclusion of questions and exercises. The
  joint authors have written other books for school use, among them
  “Foundation lessons in English.”

       + =El School J= 18:238 N ‘17 110w


=WOODROW, NANCY MANN (WADDEL) (MRS WILSON WOODROW).= Hornet’s nest. il
*$1.35 (1½c) Little 17-9252

  William Whitefield, politician, financier, and traction magnate finds
  himself confronted with a skeleton he had thought long buried. For
  fifteen years before he had destroyed the career of Ashe Colvin, a
  brilliant young New Yorker, who would have exposed his traction deal,
  and he had quarreled and parted with his ward, the high-spirited,
  rich, but, to the millionaire, undesirable Fletcher Hempstead. When
  his safe is robbed of the Colvin papers and clues lead to a
  professional cracksman, the “Hornet” who strangely resembles his
  nephew Fletcher, and when his beautiful niece apparently knows much
  about the affair that she provokingly conceals, the millionaire fears
  that the old sins have come to light. It is a thrilling battle of
  wits, and the love interest is not left out.

  “Also a romance quickly springs into being, somewhat invigorating the
  sordid atmosphere of intrigue environing the story.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 9 ‘17 450w

  “A mystery story that seizes and holds the attention.”

       + =Dial= 62:444 My 17 ‘17 110w

       + =N Y Times= 22:110 Mr 25 ‘17 200w

  “An unusually interesting tale of its type.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p17 Ap 8 ‘17 150w


=WOODS, CLINTON EDGAR.= Unified accounting methods for industrials. $5
Ronald 657 17-5973

  “During the last few years a new profession has been slowly developing
  in the industrial world, sometimes called industrial engineering,
  sometimes efficiency engineering, or again production engineering. ...
  To trace the development of industrial engineering in detail would
  mean the writing of several books. Therefore, in the present instance,
  the primary purpose will be an effort to explain its scope, some of
  the results obtained by its application to industrials, the necessity
  that exists for such special service as the industrial engineer has to
  offer, and in so far as possible to establish certain standards for
  this new profession.” (Chap. 1) About one third of the book is given
  up to forms of various kinds.

  “Presents a well-thought-out, elaborately developed system of records
  and methods of record keeping adapted to manufacturing enterprises.
  Because of his practical purpose, the author does not stop to discuss
  variations from the standard which may be necessary to fit particular
  conditions, nor does he indicate that there may be in some cases other
  equally good ways of doing things. Mr Woods writes from the standpoint
  of the industrial engineer rather than of the accountant, which is
  responsible for the short dismissal of some points which could
  profitably be treated with greater fullness. Some of the topics ably
  presented are: analyzing an industrial manager’s monthly balance
  sheet; purchasing and receiving; general stores; preparation for the
  handling of production; schedules; converting labor, material, and
  expense into finished product; controlling accounts; taking the
  inventory, etc.” R. B. Kester

     + — =Ann Am Acad= 73:230 S ‘17 360w

  “The book shows care and thoroughness in preparation. It is a book to
  be studied and worked with, not to be skimmed through. The fact that
  one does not always agree with the author does not impair the
  usefulness of the volume. It merely means that the reader must justify
  to himself that certain of his own methods, differing from those set
  down, are better for him than those given by the author.” E. C. Church

       + =Engin News-Rec= 78:363 My 17 ‘17 370w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:422 My ‘17 40w

         =St Louis= 15:332 S ‘17 30w


=WOOFTER, THOMAS JACKSON.= Teaching in rural schools. (Riverside
textbooks in education) *$1.40 Houghton 379.17 17-29771

  As stated by the author, the aims of this book for rural teachers are:
  “(1) To bring to attention the needs of rural life, the broadening
  vision of rural life, and the possible contributions of the rural
  school to this life; (2) To unfold in a clear and helpful way some
  introductory guiding principles of education; (3) To start any rural
  teacher on the road of the best in modern methods in teaching and in
  managing; (4) To direct such a teacher to the most helpful aids in
  educational literature in connection with the various phases of theory
  and practice.” The author is dean of the school of education in the
  University of Georgia and his book is “an outgrowth of the experience
  of years spent in teaching in rural schools and of other years given
  to the preparation of teachers.” Part 1 discusses general problems
  connected with the rural school. Part 2 is devoted to specific school
  subjects. Suggestions for reading follow each chapter and at the end
  there is a list of “Twenty good books for rural-school teachers.”

  “A careful reading of the first part raises grave questions as to the
  wisdom of trying to present in the brief space of one-half of a small
  textbook the wide scope in which the author is interested. He has been
  forced to drop into the practice of laying down rule-of-thumb
  principles and methods of procedure rather than of developing
  carefully each of the principles. In part 2 the writer again can do no
  more than rather dogmatically lay out various methods of teaching the
  individual subjects. The book literature of rural-school
  administration and teaching is extremely limited. In its present
  condition Professor Woofter’s book will probably be of distinct help
  to most rural-school teachers.” H. O. Rugg

     + — =El School J= 18:310 D ‘17 720w


=WOOLF, LEONARD SIDNEY.= Future of Constantinople. *$1 Macmillan 327.4
(Eng ed 17-21780)

  “This is a plea for the establishment of an International commission,
  composed, say, of Americans, Danes, and Swiss, to control
  Constantinople and the Straits after the war, just as the Danube
  navigation was controlled by a European commission, of whose work
  interesting particulars are given. It is a possible solution of a
  question which cannot be left unsolved.”—Spec

         =Ath= p358 Jl ‘17 100w

  “The grand defect of his schemes, whether they deal with the
  government of Constantinople or with the settlement of non-justiciable
  disputes, is that they will work all right in normal times, but that
  they provide no security against the emergence of the old Adam at a
  crisis.”

     – + =Ath= p582 N ‘17 950w

  “Brief but remarkably cogent argument. ... We believe he offers a
  valid solution to a four-and-a-half century problem.” S. A.

       + =Boston Transcript= p10 O 20 ‘17 600w

  “One cannot repress the feeling that the author undervalues the
  difficulty of carrying out his plan.”

     + — =Dial= 63:591 D 6 ‘17 380w

       + =Spec= 119:16 Jl 7 ‘17 70w

         =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p275 Je 7 ‘17 20w


=WORK, EDGAR WHITAKER.= Bible in English literature. *$1.25 (1½c) Revell
220 17-27636

  The purpose of this book is to trace the influence of the Bible on the
  mode of thought and expression of English literature. The author says,
  “We shall not be content with showing how the Bible has been quoted by
  English writers. This is important, and will receive frequent
  attention. The purpose is broader than this—to show how biblical
  thought and style have entered into the very mold of English
  literature.” For his starting point he goes back to the arrival in
  England of Augustine and his monks, who brought with them the Bible
  and its teachings. Other early chapters are devoted to Cynewulf, Bede,
  Alcuin, and King Alfred; another to Religious drama; another to Men of
  the threshold—Chaucer, Langland and Wyclif. Later chapters are given
  to Shakespeare and the Bible; The Bible in English prose; The Bible in
  English poetry, etc.

  “Deeply learned, yet admirably simple in construction and expression,
  Doctor Work’s revelation of the splendor of ‘that light which has
  never paled from English literature throughout more than a thousand
  years’ will appeal to all lovers of history, profane as well as
  biblical.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 22 ‘17 370w

  “Dr Ward possesses an adequate knowledge of the ramifications of the
  chosen matter, enabling him to present clear and convincing
  conclusions.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 29 ‘18 320w


World peril;[2] America’s interest in the war, by members of the faculty
of Princeton university. *$1 Princeton univ. press 940.91 17-28843

  “What the Princeton professors have undertaken to do is to offer, in
  the words of President Hibben’s introduction, ‘an especial
  contribution to the more accurate understanding of the reasons for the
  entry of the United States into the European war, and to the more
  vivid appreciation of all that is involved in the outcome of this
  conflict.’” (Nation) “Contents: American rights imperilled, Henry Van
  Dyke; Democracy imperilled, Thomas Jefferson Wertenbaker;
  International law imperilled, Edward S. Corwin; The world balance of
  power imperilled, Mason W. Tyler; The world peril and the two
  Americas, Clifton R. Hall; The world peril and American interests in
  the Far East, Mason W. Tyler; The world peril and world peace, Philip
  Marshall Brown.” N Y Br Lib News

  “Unless there shall be what Bertrand Russell calls a neutral authority
  empowered to adjust interests and to institute readjustments
  peacefully, readjustments by force are inevitable. We should expect
  that a book written primarily to educate public opinion regarding war
  issues would squarely face this problem. The authors of ‘The world
  peril’ have not done so. Their emphasis is upon the past, not the
  future.” V. T. Thayer

     – + =Dial= 64:19 Ja 3 ‘18 1900w

  “What they have done, besides phrasing an uninspired arraignment of
  Germany, is to make a volume whose treatment of certain important
  aspects of American foreign policy affords a veritable arsenal of
  weapons for those who still like to sneer at American altruism or the
  good faith of American democracy, and from which the German government
  might, if it chose, reprint considerable extracts with satirical
  satisfaction. If American universities can offer no better support for
  the cause of democracy than this volume affords, then truly is the
  outlook dark.”

       — =Nation= 106:40 Ja 10 ‘18 2800w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:188 D ‘17 60w


=WORTH, PATIENCE.= Sorry tale; a story of the time of Christ;
communicated through Mrs John H. Curran; ed. with a brief introd., by
Casper S. Yost. *$1.90 (½c) Holt 17-19505

  “‘The sorry tale,’ in the language as used by Patience Worth, is the
  same as ‘The tale of sorrow.’ ... It is a tale of Bethlehem and
  Jerusalem and Rome in the days of Jesus Christ, and its theme is the
  interaction of the love and hate incarnated in the bodies of the
  Christ and of the thief who died on the cross with Him. ... A great
  crowd of characters, there must be more than a hundred, carry on the
  action of the drama, and every one is individualized, full of its own
  tang of humanity, human and alive. ... ‘Patience’ works her own will
  with the gospels. She invents new miracles, she retells the old ones,
  she fills out with incidents the lives of Christ and His disciples;
  but the touching beauty and simple dignity of the figure of Christ are
  treated always with reverence and there is nothing in the tale to
  which the most orthodox could object.”—N Y Times

  “But—and this is the main thing—the style as a whole has much of
  nobility and force—a biblical style with abounding colour added. ...
  I, for one, own myself converted by this story from a mood of languid
  curiosity about an odd ‘psychic’ phenomenon, to a state of lively
  interest in the future published work of the powerful writer who goes
  by the name of ‘Patience Worth.’” H. W. Boynton

     + — =Bookm= 46:350 N ‘17 1000w

  Reviewed by Wilfrid Lay

 *       =Bookm= 46:351 N ‘17 1050w

  “If, however, on account of its psychic claims, one approaches the
  story with unbelief or scoffing, one is instantly rebuffed by its
  quality. Especially is one impressed with that strongly marked
  individuality, that touch of a unique personality pervading the book,
  which we call style.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p9 S 1 ‘17 400w

  “This tale of the Christ is not in the least impressive. Its sole
  interest lies in its much advertised and to our mind spurious origin.”

       — =Cath World= 106:550 Ja ‘18 140w

  “The plot, stripped of verbiage, is consistent and straightforward;
  many of the incidents are amazingly dramatic or poetic; and the
  presentation of the life then extant in Palestine is accurate and
  full.”

     + — =Dial= 63:403 O 25 ‘17 300w

  “Certainly this book deserves to be weighed not merely as a ‘psychic
  phenomenon,’ but as a piece of creative fiction.”

     + — =Nation= 105:224 Ag 30 ‘17 870w

  Reviewed by H. W. Boynton

       + =Nation= 105:601 N 29 ‘17 40w

         =New Repub= 12:335 O 20 ‘17 800w

  “But it is a wonderful book, a more astonishing and sustained work
  than the earlier Patience Worth volume, and unquestionably the most
  remarkable product of the so-called spirit world, whether it be a
  sub-conscious achievement, or due to some unnamed psychic
  manifestation.” Clement Wood

     + — =N Y Call= p14 Ag 26 ‘17 560w

  “The long and intricate tale is constructed with the precision and the
  accuracy of a master hand. It is a wonderful, a beautiful, and a noble
  book, but it not easy to read. Its archaic language and its frequently
  indirect modes of expression make necessary constantly the closest
  attention. The meaning is often so obscure that only considerable
  study will make it clear. Whoever would read it through will need to
  be well supplied with time and patience. But if he appreciate the
  noble and the beautiful in literature he will be well repaid. And he
  will marvel more deeply than ever over the mystery of ‘Patience
  Worth.’”

       + =N Y Times= 22:253 Jl 8 ‘17 1250w

  “We are sorry that we cannot join in the praise which has been given
  to these two books by some critics that take them seriously and find
  that the literary ghost, so to speak, who communicates under the
  pseudonym of ‘Patience Worth’ is ‘sensitive, witty, keenly
  metaphysical.’ We will admit that ‘Patience’ has better qualifications
  as a writer of fiction than most ‘controls,’ but we find her writing
  feverish, high-flown, and terribly prolix.”

       — =Outlook= 116:522 Ag 1 ‘17 200w

  “Laying aside all questions of the actual authorship, the novel has
  beauty and extraordinary power.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:557 N ‘17 130w


=WRAY, W. FITZWATER (KUKLOS, pseud.).= Across France in war time. il
*50c Dutton 940.91 17-29470

  “In common with many other British journalists at the beginning of the
  war, W. Fitzwater Wray suddenly found himself with his means of
  livelihood suspended and indefinite leisure time on his hands. ... He
  decided to make a tour of France and chose a bicycle as his vehicle.
  Taking the channel boat at Southampton, and landing at St Malo, ... he
  journeyed eastward, through Alençon and Chartres, passing to the south
  of Paris, and with Vitry-le-François as his turning point, skirted the
  line of battle as far north as Clermont. The rest of his journey was
  by rail through Paris to Havre, whence he sailed back to England. Once
  more in London, he went immediately to the offices of the Daily News
  and began to write the story of his travels for publication in its
  columns. It is this story, amplified by omitted portions which were
  excised from his manuscript to save newspaper space, which is made
  into this recent volume of the Wayfarer’s library.” Boston Transcript

  “Full of picturesque little incidents and human touches is Mr Wray’s
  volume. It gives an unusual picture of the people in the midst of war,
  and it portrays the difficulties and the occasional danger of travel
  in the midst of friends who are on the alert to suspect every man’s
  hand is against them. ... Added interest is given to Mr Wray’s volume
  by a series of reproductions of pen-and-ink drawings.” E. F. E.

       + =Boston Transcript= p7 Jl 18 ‘17 1050w

       + =Dial= 63:462 N 8 ‘17 180w

  “If much of what he relates has been told elsewhere, yet he adds fresh
  wayside touches to complete the picture of what we already know of
  France at that period.”

       + =Ind= 91:477 S 22 ‘17 90w

  “His story is vivid and interesting.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p10 O 5 ‘17 270w


=WRIGHT, MRS AGNES (FOSTER).= Interior decoration for modern needs. il
*$2.25 (4½ c) Stokes 747 17-25296

  A practical book for women who cannot employ decorators or who,
  employing them, wish to work understandingly with them. It is the room
  between the “period room and the packing-case room” that Mrs Wright
  helps home makers remove from the commonplace. Simplicity,
  suitability, durability, economy, comfort and good taste are the watch
  words. The apartment dweller ought to be especially grateful for the
  chapter on “The city apartment,” in which are discussed colors that
  increase the sense of space, furniture arrangement and space economy,
  and the treatment of the small city apartment. Good illustrations
  accompany the text.

  “She does not cater to the slim purse, but, on the other hand, her
  suggestions are less elaborate than those in De Wolfe’s ‘House in good
  taste,’ and Parson’s ‘Interior decoration.’ The book contains many
  practical suggestions for color schemes and arrangement, and is fully
  and attractively illustrated.”

       + =Cleveland= p136 D ‘17 60w

  “The author strikes a cheerful medium between the ideal and the
  possible, especially in her treatment of kitchens and service
  quarters.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:436 O 28 ‘17 180w

       + =R of Rs= 57:216 F ‘18 50w


=WRIGHT, HELEN SAUNDERS (SMITH) (MRS CHARLES HEWITT WRIGHT).= Our United
States army; with an introd. by Major-General Leonard Wood. il *$1.50
(2c) Shores 355.09 17-13202

  “It is my purpose to present in the following pages a few examples of
  the manifold activities of the army of the United States, the
  importance and economic significance of which have been overshadowed
  by historians in the tragic drama and far-reaching results of our
  nation’s wars.” (Preface) Contents: Lewis and Clark expedition;
  Explorations of Pike, Long and Bonneville; Fremont and his adventures;
  Domestic disturbances; Indian treaties and warfare; Lieutenant
  Whipple’s surveys and adventures; Gold and the early days of
  California; Trouble in Kansas and the Mormon problem; Exploration of
  the Colorado river; Building of the transcontinental railroads; The
  reconstruction of the South; Alaska; Cuba and the Philippines;
  Eradication of disease by army medical staff; The Panama canal.

  “To recognize properly the service of the army other than military is
  the errand of this modest volume, and it should be placed in every
  library beside the history that deals with wars and the military
  service of the army, to preserve the proper balance. Written in an
  easy and readable style, the book impresses because so little is
  claimed; nothing is presented for recognition but the results.” J. S.
  B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 My 26 ‘17 500w

  “The book should be of much interest to the public, for it is
  practicably the first history, in popular form, of the United States
  army. It is perhaps to be regretted that the author has not included
  more extended historical accounts of the organization of the army.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Je 11 ‘17 310w


=WRIGHT, HENRY WILKES.= Faith justified by progress. *$1.25 Scribner 204
16-22424

  “The Bross lectures for 1916 at Lake Forest college have been
  published under the title, ‘Faith justified by progress.’ The author
  takes certain types of social life which have been outstanding stages
  of social and moral evolution and seeks to discover what part
  religious faith had in their working and development. The book opens
  with a discussion of the eclipse of faith due to the rise of
  naturalism. ... In four chapters Dr Wright reviews ‘Primitive life,’
  ‘Natural life,’ ‘Supernatural life,’ ‘The universal life,’ and ends
  with a postscript on the ‘Future of religion.’”—Springf’d Republican

  “It is to be hoped that Professor Wright’s book will be widely read;
  for it is well calculated to arouse interest and sympathy for a
  religious movement of great promise.” G. B. Smith

       + =Am J Theol= 21:303 Ap ‘17 1270w

         =A L A Bkl= 14:4 O ‘17

  “The postscript on the future of religion is a fitting close to a work
  which is optimistic in an acceptable form. Although the author’s
  conception of will is very comprehensive, in the reviewer’s opinion
  there is hardly sufficient recognition of the great fact that will to
  be efficient must be directed. Reason must at least sit on the right
  hand of the throne. We heartily commend the book to a wide
  constituency.”

       + =Bib World= 49:186 Mr ‘17 350w

         =Ind= 89:510 Mr 19 ‘17 50w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:13 Ja ‘17

  “The author is professor of philosophy in Lake Forest college.”

         =St Louis= 15:6 Ja ‘17 10w

  “The book is clearly written and is systematic in its presentation of
  its thesis. It represents real scholarship and incisive reasoning.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p8 F 28 ‘17 350w


=WRIGHT, IRENE ALOHA.= Early history of Cuba, 1492-1586; written from
original sources. map *$2 (2c) Macmillan 972.91 16-23517

  A work based on a study of records in the Archive of the Indies at
  Seville, Spain. As the introduction states, it is a “history of Cuba
  from its discovery by Columbus in 1492, through the year 1586, when
  Sir Francis Drake, in sailing along the north shore of the island
  after his successful raid on other Spanish settlements of the West
  Indies, closed the first era of the colony’s history.” Contents: Book
  1, 1492-1524, Spain takes possession of Cuba; Book 2, 1524-1550, An
  era of stagnation; Book 3, 1550-1567, French influence; Book 4,
  1567-1586, The menace of the English.

  “Gives some new and interesting material and at the same time suffers
  some omissions from the limitation of its sources.”

     + — =A L A Bkl= 14:22 O ‘17

  “When Miss Irene Wright chose such an attractive subject, and took the
  trouble to study it from the original sources in Spain, it seems a
  pity that she has produced such a dull book. Miss Wright’s book may
  contain a good deal of fresh matter, but unfortunately it is
  unreadable.” H. P. B.

     – + =Eng Hist R= 32:620 O ‘17 360w

       + =Ind= 90:36 Ap 2 ‘17 140w

  “The best chapters in the book are those dealing with Menendez de
  Avilés, the first truly great figure to appear in Cuban history. ...
  In such a book as this a map is not only desirable, but essential; and
  the same may be said of a list of the writers who have already worked
  in the field of early Cuban history.”

         =Nation= 104:599 My 17 ‘17 1100w

       + =N Y Times= 22:276 Jl 22 ‘17 380w

  “Interesting, readable account.”

       + =Pratt= p44 O ‘17 10w

       + =R of Rs= 55:217 F ‘17 130w

  “Miss Wright has had the courage to explore the archive of the Indies
  at Seville, and has written this attractive and interesting book from
  the documents, which no one before her had studied with care.”

       + =Spec= 119:145 Ag 11 ‘17 150w

  “Miss Wright’s book is interesting and readable throughout. ... While
  it is to be regretted that she did not bring her research down to a
  later date, the ‘Early history of Cuba’ will have lasting value for
  the light it throws on the development of the Spanish colonial
  empire.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 2 ‘17 250w

  “Miss Wright is a journalist who has practised her profession in
  Havana and has by long residence in the island well qualified herself
  to write such a descriptive work on present-day Cuba as she published
  a few years ago. But the qualities which served her well in the
  composition of that work are not all that are needed in a more serious
  history based on original research among documentary materials. ...
  Her narrative is lacking in insight and perspective, and in that
  creative, or at least reconstructive, imagination which is the note of
  the true historian. Moreover, she handles her materials in no very
  scholarly fashion.”

     – + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p98 Mr 1 ‘17 1300w


=WRIGHT, PHILIP QUINCY.= Enforcement of international law through
municipal law in the United States. (Studies in the social sciences) pa
$1.25 Univ. of Ill 341 16-10801

  “Dr Wright ... has confined himself to a study of the measures which
  this country has adopted to compel its citizens and others found
  within the confines of its jurisdiction to observe what Dr Wright
  calls ‘supra-national’ law. ... Throughout the book the sharp dividing
  line between that which is municipal and that which is international
  is clearly drawn. Dr Wright aims to present a study of the enforcement
  by the national legal machinery within the United States of those
  provisions which may be considered as international law. He points out
  that the importance of this study results from the necessity in the
  application of the system of ‘supra-national’ law to take action
  through national officials. The title of his book makes a sharp
  division between the rules of international law which are observed by
  the executive and representative branches of the government and those
  which are enforced by the legal machinery.”—Nation

  “As to the method followed by Doctor Wright, nothing can be said in
  criticism of the excellent scholarship evinced throughout the
  monograph. The author is sure of his ground. He has a firm grasp on
  his law, and is careful to make only such statements as can be amply
  substantiated. ... It is possible to criticize the mechanical
  arrangement of his thesis. The scaffolding is too much in evidence.
  The structure is too gaunt and creaking. Such chapter headings as
  ‘Obligations of vindication’ and ‘Obligations of reparation’ are
  awkward and pedantic. But such criticism is of course of minor
  importance.” P. M. Brown

       + =Am Pol Sci R= 11:143 P ‘17 1250w

  “The style, command of material, method of treatment, and unusual
  power of accurate classification will give Dr Wright’s work a high
  place among the numerous studies in his subject which are now
  appearing. His work is both original and sanely conservative.”

       + =Nation= 104:525 My 3 ‘17 950w


=WRIGHT, RICHARDSON LITTLE.= Russians; an interpretation. *$1.50 (2c)
Stokes 914.7 17-13335

  Writing shortly before the revolution in Russia the author said, “I
  have attempted to interpret the why and how of Russian life so that
  Americans can understand what their present activities presage for the
  future. ... There is no reason why the people of the greatest republic
  should not be on friendly terms with the people of the greatest
  autocracy. Between no two nations are there so many points of
  contact—what the states possess fitting so snugly into what Russia
  requires.” Contents: The strength of the adolescent; What is a
  Russian? A democracy in the making; The things he revolts against;
  “This is the faith of the fathers”; The moujik’s religion; The Russian
  as a business man; The Russian as a working man; Defining Dostoevsky
  and some others; The colors of the Russian palette; When Russia sings;
  The Russian land of promise; Russia’s manifest destinies; Russia and
  America.

  “It is hardly necessary to add that while expatiating with an air of
  authority on the remote destinies of Russia, Mr. Wright overlooks the
  stupendous powers of revolt and reconstruction which were ripening
  before his very eyes in the vast Slavic cauldron.” Abraham Yarmolinsky

     – + =Bookm= 46:482 D ‘17 200w

  “Many inaccuracies also arouse the reader’s suspicion. ... Mr Wright
  makes a valuable comparison between the Russian and the American
  business man and any person cherishing the plan of engaging in trade
  with Russia would find it to his advantage to take his sensible and
  constructive suggestions to heart. ... He gives an excellent idea of
  the greatness and promise of Siberia and here his own personal
  experiences are of real value.” N. H. D.

         =Boston Transcript= p6 My 23 ‘17 550w

       + =Cath World= 105:537 Jl ‘17 330w

  “His style is vivid rather than literary, and his viewpoint distinctly
  American.”

     + — =Cleveland= p138 D ‘17 90w

  “The work of a man who has a deep affection for the Russian people and
  a knowledge of the grave problems that Russia will have to face in the
  near future. Unfortunately, much in Mr Wright’s interesting volume has
  become ‘antiquated’ in view of the great strides that the country has
  made in the last four months.” L: S. Friedland

     + — =Dial= 63:199 S 13 ‘17 900w

  “The correspondent of the New York World and the London Daily Press
  covers a broad field, and answers more of the questions Americans are
  asking than do most books on Russia.”

         =Ind= 90:269 My 12 ‘17 40w

  “It is a vital fault in Mr Wright’s volume that not only does it fail
  to make us see a reason for the revolution, but that its spirit and
  context bear all against the possibility of what has actually come to
  pass. ... His ideas on the radical revolutionary forces in the country
  are positively tragic. ... He has given us something that comes very
  close to being a misinterpretation of the Russian people.”

       — =Nation= 104:661 My 31 ‘17 300w

  “A clear, sane, and interesting as well as instructive account of a
  country and its people.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:209 My 27 ‘17 600w

         =Pratt= p46 O ‘17 10w

       + =R of Rs= 56:101 Jl ‘17 100w

  “The aim of the book is to dispel false impressions and it
  accomplishes its object.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p19 Je 10 ‘17 400w

  Reviewed by Walter Pettit

       + =Survey= 38:359 Jl 21 ‘17 300w


=WRIGHT, WILLARD HUNTINGTON.= Creative will. *$1.50 (3c) Lane 701
16-24940

  The author calls the four essays of this book “studies in the
  philosophy and the syntax of æsthetics.” The four essays are entitled
  Art and life, Problems of æsthetics, Art and the artist, Art and the
  individual. Mr Wright is author of a book on “Modern painting: its
  tendency and meaning.” It is the philosophy of the new art that he
  voices in this book: “The artist is an interpreter of causes, not a
  depicter of effects”; “The dictum that ‘art should express life’ has
  retarded the development of æsthetic expression more than any other”;
  “Art is the mouthpiece of the will of nature, namely, the complete
  unified intelligence of life. ... An artist’s mind in the act of
  creating, is only an outlet of that intelligence.”

  “A little more science and a little more philosophy would have given
  us a work of more catholic sympathy without abandoning the general
  position which Mr Wright so ably constructs.”

     + — =Bellman= 22:161 F 10 ‘17 170w

  “The æsthetic of mass, which has been variously developed by Guyau,
  Hildebrandt, Lipps, and Berenson, receives its most effective literary
  presentation in this new book. ... Mr Wright’s style has pulse and
  drive enough to carry along a good deal that is crabbed in vocabulary.
  He is always honest and clear, and but seldom careless. His robust
  intellectualism deserves admiration, however much his particular
  theories may provoke dissent. To read him is to sharpen one’s own
  thinking. ... I suppose the unsteadiness of the impression Mr Wright’s
  argument makes, is due to the fact that he has built up upon a flimsy
  foundation a well-ordered and over elaborate structure. He is at all
  points very far from life, of which art is after all an expression,
  and his miraculously poised card house does not look habitable. In
  building it, however, he has displayed rare ingenuity.” F. J. Mather,
  jr.

       + =Dial= 62:15 Ja 11 ‘17 1350w

  “The book is not without its sound teachings; as, for instance, in
  parts of Aphorisms 27, 138, 150, and 179; but it also contains a
  number of misleading statements which point to a lack of historical
  research on the part of the author. ... No one can fail to discover
  that Mr Wright is in dead earnest; but, after reading his book
  carefully, we cannot advise the public to take him too seriously at
  the present stage of his development.”

     – + =Nation= 104:370 Mr 29 ‘17 1100w

  “Once Mr Wright wrote a book called ‘What Nietzsche taught,’ but he
  neglected to learn one of that philosopher’s most pungent lessons,
  which was, not to attempt a volume of metaphysical epigrams unless you
  are a genius. ... One demands always the just, always the keen and
  vivid insight. And in ‘The creative will’ the supply is pitifully
  inadequate to the demand. It is mostly will, and very little
  creation.” H. S.

       — =New Repub= 10:382 Ap 28 ‘17 1050w


=WRIGHT, WILLARD HUNTINGTON.= Misinforming a nation. *$1.25 (2½c)
Huebsch 032 17-13756

  A critical examination of the Encyclopædia Britannica. In his first
  chapter, Colonizing America, the author contends that American thought
  is shaped by British influence. Cut off from contact with other
  European nations by unfamiliarity with any language other than
  English, and unsure of ourselves, we have slavishly imitated England.
  “We have de-Americanized ourselves to such an extent that there has
  grown up in us a typical British contempt for our own native
  achievements.” In particular is the Encyclopædia Britannica held
  responsible. “Taken as a whole, the Britannica’s divisions on culture
  are little more than a brief for British art and science,” says the
  author. Chapters on The novel, The drama, Poetry, British painting,
  etc., are given up to an examination of the Britannica’s treatment of
  these subjects. At the close there is a list of Two hundred omissions.

         =Cleveland= p116 S ‘17 60w

  “Mr Wright’s book, as a pamphlet against a long-established literary
  institution, gets to be rather wearying and irritating. ... So good a
  book ought not to produce such an effect. I suggest that it be read in
  a different spirit from that in which it is written, and that it be
  made to serve a different purpose. Let it be thoroughly indexed and
  annotated, and used as a little ‘Encyclopædia moderna’ (if such Latin
  will pass), concerned altogether with current movements and latter-day
  personalities.” H: B. Fuller

       — =Dial= 62:477 My 31 ‘17 1150w

       — =Nation= 104:734 Je 21 ‘17 780w

         =New Repub= 11:223 Je 23 ‘17 1550w

  “Certainly, a work of the proportions of the encyclopedia in spite of
  the most earnest efforts of those in charge, would have its defects in
  omission and commission. But to the ordinary reader it seems a little
  bit unnecessary to fly into a rage over these errors, and thus mar
  what would otherwise be a very important critical study.”

     – + =N Y Call= p15 Je 24 ‘17 580w

  “The confusion of thought, the mixed metaphor, the affectation of
  needless and banal French words, the spiteful and shallow temper shown
  in the brief citation we have made pervade the book.”

       — =NY Times= 22:169 Ap 29 ‘17 650w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:702 O ‘17 20w

  “Written in the spirit of an attack rather than a judicial
  examination. The overwhelming merits of the work are largely
  ignored. ... Mr Wright misrepresents the book which he is examining.
  For instance, he gives a list of 200 Americans whose biographies do
  not appear in the Britannica. But he does not state that practically
  all these Americans are considered under the subjects in which, if at
  all, they have attained distinction.”

       — =Springf’d Republican= p6 My 7 ‘17 950w


=WYATT, EDITH FRANKLIN.= Great companions. *$1.50 (2c) Appleton 814
17-7484

  Essays reprinted from the North American Review, the Chicago Tribune,
  the Little Review, Poetry, and other periodicals. Most of them are
  literary studies. The author of Robinson Crusoe, Stephen Crane, Henry
  James, Some unpopular parodies, With Walt Whitman in Camden, James
  Whitcomb Riley, Brontë poems, Shelley in his letters, are some of the
  titles. Among the remaining essays are a few possessing a wider
  interest, altho these too have a literary point of departure.
  “Nonsense about women” is a comment on the Fiona MacLeod-William Sharp
  problem. “An autobiography of American farm women” is a study of the
  series of letters from farm women published by the Department of
  agriculture.

  “Shows delightful intimacy and sound critical judgment. The sense of
  the writer’s personality, while not at all intrusive, adds a flavor to
  the essays.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 13:344 My ‘17

  “As a ‘tonic,’ ‘Great companions’ can certainly be recommended, for it
  contains something sufficiently rare: independent and, at the same
  time, cheerful thought about what we have done in literature and what
  we are likely to do.”

       + =Dial= 62:315 Ap 5 ‘17 300w

       + =Ind= 90:34 Ap 2 ‘17 140w

  “To make a book of such a miscellany of topics requires the sustained
  application of general ideas or the pervasive cement of personality.
  In this case there is not enough of either element to produce much
  impression of coherence. Where temperament appears, however, it is
  bright, cheery, and gently adventurous. And here and there Miss Wyatt
  turns up an idea fit for the central thesis of a book.”

       + =Nation= 105:71 Jl 19 ‘17 230w

  “Miss Wyatt has read Americans with particular responsiveness, deeply
  feeling the privilege of America, the chance our democracy has given
  us so far, and the beauty of the vastness of our plains and forests.”
  E. B.

       + =New Repub= 12:140 S 1 ‘17 950w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:61 Ap ‘17

  “It is interesting throughout, and it is marked by a freshness and
  briskness which—added to the carefulness of its study—give it a great
  deal of charm.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:325 S 2 ‘17 310w

  “It is with this constant bias toward sensitive and beautiful
  indication that Miss Wyatt discriminates the human and spiritual
  values of her subject-matter. ... That is her special and precious
  contribution. We are aware of no one else in America today who can
  interpret imaginative creation out of a fuller understanding of those
  things which are efficacious ‘in making men wiser, better, and
  happier’: who can speak of them with equal insight, rectitude, and
  beauty.” Lawrence Gilman

     + + =No Am= 205:462 Mr ‘17 1400w

  “She has the faculty of making all her literary friends appear worth a
  further acquaintance.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 2 ‘17 340w


=WYATT, EDITH FRANKLIN.= Wind in the corn, and other poems. *$1 Appleton
811 17-29996

  A volume of lyrics, collected from the author’s writings of the past
  ten or more years. She offers them now as an attempt to express
  something of the American dream of democracy. They are an expression
  of “some of the overland ways of the living presence of our country,”
  the author believing that one of the most important elements in our
  common background is a “consciousness of movement over a variety of
  country.” Among the poems in which this “overland” element is
  prominent are: Wind in the corn; To a river god; Niagara; Winter
  wheat; On the great plateau; November in the city; An Arizona wind; A
  city equinoctial.

  “There is more romance in these poems than at first appears on the
  surface, but it is the romance of the spirit rather than place or
  incident. Simple and direct as is the language of these poems, they
  are richly suggestive of life with fulness of dream and aspiration.
  With a peculiar gift of visualization Miss Wyatt makes one see what
  she does not figuratively put into her verse.” W. S. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 D 22 ‘17 330w

  “Miss Wyatt derives a genuine inspiration from her country both as a
  nation and a geographical expression. She really has captured
  something of its thoughts and moods, its variety and manifold
  poetry. ... In ‘November in the city’ rings a deeper and more vibrant
  music, with a universality and insight that mark it from her other
  poems.” M. T.

       + =New Repub= 13:353 Ja 19 ‘18 190w

  “A free and buoyant spirit breathes through the swinging lines, a keen
  joy in what is seen and felt, a realization of what is worth while and
  permanent.”

       + =N Y Times= 23:33 Ja 27 ‘18 290w


=WYMOND, MARK.= Government partnership in railroads. $1.50 (3c) Wymond &
Clark 385 17-6654

  The author’s purpose is to propose a constructive railroad policy to
  replace present attempts at regulation and to forestall government
  ownership. The main points of his plan are: to expand the present
  Interstate commerce commission by the creation of eight district
  commissions; to grant the railroads representation on these
  commissions, and to have the government guarantee interest and
  dividends. Contents: Our transportation problem; The sins of
  regulation; Sins of the railroads; A constructive railroad policy;
  Government ownership of railroads.

  “Mr Wymond’s proposal is an interesting one, but does not come with
  the force that might possibly have marked it if his discussion had
  been of a broader character. The discriminating reader is left in
  doubt as to the extent to which he can rely upon the author’s
  guidance.” E. R. Dewsnup

     – + =Am Econ R= 7:856 D ‘17 580w

         =Ann Am Acad= 73:235 S ‘17 40w

         =Cleveland= p112 S ‘17 30w

         =Electric Railway Journal= p674 Ap 7 ‘17

  “Mr Wymond is a good spokesman for the railroads, assuming, what seems
  to be true, that he represents them with his solution of the
  troublesome plan of railway regulation—much in the same unofficial way
  that he represented them with his earlier book, ‘Railroad valuation
  and rates.’ Mr Wymond’s candid and quiet statements will gain a wider
  hearing, in spite of his obvious leanings, than the once familiar
  broadside loaded with bombast and exaggeration.”

       + =Engin N= 77:437 Mr 15 ‘17 200w

         =Ind= 91:31 Jl 7 ‘17 80w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:470 My ‘17 90w

  Railway Review p539 Ap 14 ‘17

         =R of Rs= 56:326 S ‘17 160w

  “It is not likely that his plan will be accepted by the managers. But
  it cannot be called visionary, for it merely provides a possible
  synthesis of forces existing in society and applies principles that
  are already accepted in theory. One may make this acknowledgment
  without yielding full assent to this particular plan of Mr Wymond’s,
  which, however, is worthy of consideration. The question of railway
  credit and the desirability of doing away with the anomalies of the
  present system of regulation demand constructive thinking.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 F 23 ‘17 350w




                                   X


=“X.,” pseud.= War poems. *75c Doubleday 821 17-12509

  A publisher’s note says that all that is known of “X” is that he is an
  Englishman who has given two sons to the war. Among the poems are: A
  song of pride for England; Kitchener; Dying for your country; A chant
  of affection; To the Kaiser; Joffre; Towards the reckoning; Verdun;
  Ireland; and If, the last “with apologies to Mr Kipling.”

  “Vivid, martial verse, satirical, humorous, tragic. Voices in
  particular the feelings of the stay-at-home.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:16 O ‘17

  “‘War poems’ by ‘X’ have stirred England more than any poems since
  Rupert Brooke’s last sonnets. ... ‘X’ is said to be T. W. H. Crosland,
  a London journalist of noted gifts, a man who has edited a number of
  famous literary journals. ... Whoever ‘X’ may be does not matter so
  much; certainly these poems might honorably have come from any of the
  greatest hands writing English today. He is equipped with tools of
  extraordinary edge and temper. The savage and relentless power of the
  satiric and invective verses is no more remarkable than the noble and
  mellow beauty of the elegiac sonnets.” C. D. M.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 2 ‘17 1200w

       + =Lit D= 54:1178 Ap 21 ‘17 330w

         =N Y Br Lib News= 4:78 My ‘17 20w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:507 Je ‘17 20w

       + =Spec= 118:76 Ja 20 ‘17 70w




                                   Y


=YARD, ROBERT STERLING.= Top of the continent. il *75c (2c) Scribner 711
17-25279

  In his introduction to this “story of a cheerful journey through our
  national parks,” Franklin K. Lane speaks of the national parks as “one
  part of our national system of education.” Only a very few boys and
  girls can avail themselves of this educational opportunity at first
  hand, and the next best thing will be to read about these wonderlands
  in books that will fire the imagination and inspire the ambition to
  visit them “some day.” Happily Mr Yard has provided just such a book.
  Margaret and Jack, who travel thru the parks in company with a nice
  mother, two jolly young uncles and a charming young aunt, are two
  lively and human youngsters. The story is entertaining and the
  informative parts of the book are made interesting. The pictures are
  from photographs and from drawings by Maginel Wright Enright.

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:138 Ja ‘18

  “Makes one realize our country’s resources. The illustrations are
  profuse and excellent.”

       + =Ind= 92:448 D 1 ‘17 30w

  “The volume ought to prove both informative and interesting to all who
  have a particle of curiosity about or pride in their own country. For
  those who contemplate a trip to any one or all of the places described
  it will serve as an excellent guide book. For young people there could
  be no better gift volume.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:482 N 18 ‘17 430w

  “A capital book for young people.”

       + =Outlook= 117:100 S 19 ‘17 50w

  “Delightful little book.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p13 D 16 ‘17 150w


=YEATS, JOHN BUTLER.= Passages from the letters of John Butler Yeats;
selected by Ezra Pound. Cuala press, Churchtown, Dundrum, Ireland
17-23318

  “Mr Pound tells us that these passages were chosen from letters
  written to Mr W. B. Yeats by his father between 1911 and 1916. Mr J.
  B. Yeats is a painter, but he writes mainly about life and literature,
  or art in general.” (The Times [London] Lit Sup) “Mr William Butler
  Yeats is a silent factor in the book except for his suggestion that
  his father, living in New York, should write to him in Europe letters
  of subject continuity with the idea of later publication.” (Boston
  Transcript) The volume is printed by Elizabeth Corbet Yeats, daughter
  of the writer of the letters.

  “The typography of this beautiful little book is almost worthy of the
  Doves press. ... This collection of letters almost amounts to a body
  of criticism and social theory. So many things are touched on, and so
  well, that the book was worth an index.”

       + =Ath= p413 Ag ‘17 270w

  “Typographically it is all that one might desire for a text entirely
  concerned with beauty, and Miss Yeats has added one more volume to her
  list of books in which color, paper, type and spacing unite in fine
  harmony.” K. B.

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 Je 13 ‘17 1350w

  “The youthfully venerable Mr Yeats ... bends a kindly but rebuking
  gaze upon what seems to him the emptiness of our American civilization
  or the deficiencies of those who are neither Irish nor French; his
  admonishing finger points straight at the delirious vacuity of our
  national life. ... How shrewd, how charming, how eloquent, how wise in
  the intuition of a subtle poet and dreamer is the talk of this Irish
  patriarch at its best.” Lawrence Gilman

     + — =No Am= 206:472 S ‘17 1700w

  “Yet in spite of his personal comment, the letters are kindly-mannered
  and truly critical. Contrasts between types of character of different
  nationalities and comparisons between Englishmen of letters and
  American writers make excellent reading.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:217 F ‘18 330w

  “He writes like one whose business is contemplation and who is utterly
  content with it. He lives intensely still, but has passed beyond the
  struggle for life; he is personal, but without personal aims or
  irritations or vanities; his philosophy is his own, but it is
  completely a philosophy, not a cry of individual pain or pleasure.
  Sometimes there is a little malice, but it is the delicate malice of
  the spirit, directed not against people but against tendencies.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p271 Je 7 ‘17 1350w


=YODER, JACOB HERBERT, and WHAREN, GEORGE BURR.= Locomotive valves and
valve gears; with a special treatise on valve setting. il *$3 Van
Nostrand 621.184 17-21992

  “This book has been prepared to meet a general desire among railroad
  shop men to acquaint themselves thoroughly with the valves and valve
  gears applied to the modern locomotive and to master the principles of
  valve motion as a preparation to valve setting. ... The material has
  been compiled largely from notes used in the instruction of
  apprentices of the Pennsylvania railroad company, and from knowledge
  gained by the authors in practical shop experience.” (Preface)
  Contents: Locomotive valves and valve gears; The Stephenson valve
  gear; The Walschaert valve gear; Baker locomotive valve gear [and
  others]; Effects of altering the valve and its events; Locomotive
  valve setting; Summary. There are 274 illustrations, including
  figures, diagrams, etc.

  “Practical, simply written, and provided with excellent diagrams, this
  admirable work should find a wide use not only among shopmen, but
  among enginemen, firemen, draughtsmen, and designing engineers as
  well.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p9 O ‘17 80w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:757 N ‘17 40w


=YOHANNAN, ABRAHAM.= Death of a nation; or, The ever persecuted
Nestorians or Assyrian Christians. il *$2 (9c) Putnam 281 16-23129

  “To meet the wishes of my friends, I have consented to give the
  history of the persecutions of the Nestorian church in general, and to
  make public some further information on the sufferings and massacres
  to which, as the result of this terrible war, they are subjected
  to-day,” says the author. Part 1 of his book is devoted to a
  historical survey of the Christian church in Assyria from its founding
  in the first century to the present day. Part 2 describes the
  sufferings of his people as a result of the present war.

         =Bib World= 49:187 Mr ‘17 90w

         =Ind= 88:552 D 25 ‘16 60w

         =R of Rs= 55:108 Ja ‘17 20w


=YOUNG, GEORGE.= Portugal old and young. il *$2.25 Oxford 946.9 (Eng ed
17-24318)

  “Mr Young, sometime first secretary at Lisbon, has in seven essays
  presented an account of Portugal, beginning with Portugal and the war,
  following with four historical chapters, and concluding with Young
  Portugal and Portugal and the peace. ... Several translations are
  reproduced here from his ‘Portugal, an anthology,’ published last
  year. ... In the frontispiece is reproduced Nuno Gonsalvez’s
  altar-piece of San Vicente.”—Ath

       + =Ath= p475 S ‘17 130w

  “Now and then as we read we are tempted to wish that our author had
  written as a traveller and not as an historian. At times we find his
  political history rather dull, and indeed it would be nearly
  impossible in a short space to render the kaleidoscopic changes of
  political fortune in modern Portugal other than confusing; but his
  descriptions of the country, his criticism of its literature, and his
  translations of its songs are charming.”

     + — =Spec= 119:330 S 29 ‘17 1100w

  “A well-proportioned survey of ‘Portugal, old and young,’ compressed
  into a short space, but without any obvious sense of compression. ...
  In what will be to many readers the most interesting part of the book,
  he discusses, under ‘Empire and eclipse,’ how it was that the strength
  of Portugal was sapped instead of being built up by empire. ... Mr
  George Young has already done much by his ‘Portugal: an anthology,’
  published last year, to interest English readers in that country.”

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p371 Ag 2 ‘17 220w

  “It is not a ‘history’ in the conventional sense, but an essay on the
  whole development of the life of the Portuguese people, illustrated by
  copious quotations from their literature and by vivid sketches of the
  country, of its art and architecture, and of the people themselves.
  Very interesting, especially, is the comparison of Portugal with
  Ireland, the basis of the population of the two countries being
  compounded of the same racial elements, Iberian and Celtic.”

 *       =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p399 Ag 23 ‘17 2250w


=YOUNG, JEREMIAH SIMEON.= State and government. *50c (1c) McClurg 350
17-8359

  “An attempt to clarify the popular understanding of the principles of
  government, as developed in our own national history. ... This book is
  presented as one of the volumes of the National social science series,
  edited by President McVey, of the University of North Dakota.” (R of
  Rs) “It is to be supplemented at an early date with another on social
  and economic legislation, which will emphasize the fundamental
  principles of the state’s police power.” (Author’s preface) There is a
  one page bibliography.

  “On the whole Dr Young has performed his task as capably as an
  enterprise of this nature could be performed, but the demands of
  brevity have been so rigorous that in many passages the virtue of
  clearness has had to be jettisoned.”

     + — =Am Pol Sci R= 11:789 N ‘17 190w

         =R of Rs= 56:326 S ‘17 50w

         =St Louis= 15:357 O ‘17 30w

  “Commonplace and not new, but likely to afford some food for thought
  to the uninformed seeker after the principles underlying political
  institutions.”

     – + =Springf’d Republican= p8 Ap 20 ‘17 100w


=YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS. INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE.= Balancing
country life; ed. by County work dept. $1 (5½c) Assn. press 630 17-17186

  A report of a conference held in Chicago in October, 1916, under the
  auspices of the County work committee of the Y. M. C. A. The general
  subjects for discussion were: The countryside—its home; The
  countryside—its school; The countryside—its church; The
  countryside—its community. In addition the volume contains reports of
  committees, etc.


=YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS. INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE.= Home of
the countryside; ed. by the County work dept. $1 (5c) Assn. press 630
17-16852

  A report of the Country life conference held by the Country work
  department of the Y. M. C. A. in New York city in November, 1916. An
  address by John R. Mott on An international country life outlook is
  followed by papers and discussions of: The family in our country life;
  The spirit and needs of the farm home; The home and community culture;
  The home and community religion; The home as a factor in the
  community. There is also a brief report from the Country life
  conference held in Chicago.


=YOUNGHUSBAND, SIR GEORGE JOHN.= Soldier’s memories in peace and war. il
*$5 Dutton 17-23041

  “This book begins with recollections of Sandhurst, chiefly of the
  lighter sort. ... Accounts of campaigning in Egypt, South Africa,
  India, and elsewhere are to be found in the ‘Memories,’ which embody
  reminiscences of Lord Roberts, Cecil Rhodes, and others.”—Ath

         =A L A Bkl= 14:24 O ‘17

       + =Ath= p313 Je ‘17 180w

  “There is great variety to General Younghusband’s reminiscences. They
  cover a considerable period and a wide range of territory.”

       + =Boston Transcript= p6 S 15 ‘17 400w

  “‘Memories,’ from the point of view of interest and of workmanship, is
  one of the best collections of reminiscences that have recently been
  brought out. One is envious of the life that has made them possible.”

       + =Dial= 64:72 Ja 17 ‘18 400w

  “An interesting book, racy with the individuality of its soldier
  author, and as full of stirring and unusual adventure as a romance.”

       + =N Y Times= 22:293 Ag 12 ‘17 660w

  “Abounds in anecdotes and fun.”

       + =Outlook= 116:660 Ag 29 ‘17 30w

  “This book is very good company. It is simply the entertaining talk of
  a soldier who has seen much active service, who has gained a wide
  knowledge of men and manners, and who knows how to tell his
  experiences with humor, precision, and occasional emotion.”

       + =Spec= 118:566 My 19 ‘17 1750w

  “As an absorbing record of personal adventure and humor the book will
  find a place beside Sir Robert Baden-Powell’s ‘Indian memories,’ which
  it somewhat resembles. Both are written in an easy, sketchy and
  informal style, and both authors are born raconteurs.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p15 S 30 ‘17 630w

       + =The Times [London] Lit Sup= p182 Ap 19 ‘17 1100w


=YOXALL, SIR JAMES HENRY.= Collecting old glass: English and Irish.
(Collectors’ pocket ser.) il *75c (3½c) Doran 738.2 (Eng ed 17-18348)

  This small book seems to cover an extensive field. Among the chapters
  are: Old English glassware, Seven general guides and tests, Blown
  ware, Cut, moulded, and engraved ware, Old coloured glass, Old
  drinking glasses, The various types of stem, The various shapes of
  bowl, etc. The author says, “Diffuseness has been avoided, but this, I
  hope, has enabled me to make the book the more lucid, as well as the
  more succinct. At any rate it affords hints, general rules, and
  warnings more numerous and more practical than any published until
  now.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:220 Ag ‘17 100w

  “The evident gusto with which he treats each of his subjects proclaims
  him a born collector. His stream of information (not always very
  clear) runs wide rather than deep, and generally the matter surpasses
  the manner. The handbooks are short cuts to successful collecting
  rather than subtle appreciations of design and craftsmanship.”

     + — =Spec= 116:634 My 20 ‘16 220w


=YOXALL, SIR JAMES HENRY.= Collecting old miniatures. (Collectors’
pocket ser.) il *75c (3½c) Doran 757 (Eng ed 18-18349)

  The author says, “I wrote this book with delight, for the sheer
  pleasure of writing about miniatures.” He has illustrated the book
  with reproductions from his own collection and has supplied details as
  to price, etc. Contents: Can it still be done? Where and how
  collecting miniatures can be done; Counterfeits and their detection;
  Classes of miniatures; The transition to ivory; Miniatures done on
  paper; Miniatures done on ivory; French miniatures on ivory;
  Miniatures done in enamel; Miniatures done on porcelain; Miscellanea
  and signatures.

         =N Y Br Lib News= 3:143 S ‘16

  “Much information in little space, yet not unduly condensed. The
  illustrations add positively to the value.”

       + =Outlook= 115:758 Ap 25 ‘17 20w

  “Unlike most handbooks for collectors, it is a distinct pleasure to
  read because of the spirited manner in which miniatures are
  described.”

       + =R of Rs= 56:220 Ag ‘17 70w

  “It requires some confidence to bring out a book on miniatures in the
  midst of such a war as this, when the scant attention that can be
  spared to the pictorial arts is largely given to powerful poster
  work—the crashing of savage colours slapped on to canvas by a deft
  spades-man. It is courageous, it is even refreshing. The illustrations
  are well chosen, many, and good.”

     + — =Spec= 116:634 My 20 ‘16 220w




                                   Z


=ZAHM, JOHN AUGUSTINE (H. J. MOZANS, pseud.).= Great inspirers. *$1.50
Appleton 920.7 17-5139

  “The Reverend J. A. Zahm ... writes most persuasively of the
  capabilities of women as the friends and advisers of men. He has taken
  as examples of women who deserved this title the Roman woman Paula and
  her gifted daughter, the virgin, Eustochium, who were privileged to
  collaborate with Saint Jerome in his labors in translating the Bible
  and providing copious commentaries thereon; and also that Beatrice
  Portinari, whom Dante loved.” (R of Rs) An earlier book by the author
  treated of “Women in science.”

         =Boston Transcript= p6 Ap 25 ‘17 270w

         =Cath World= 105:108 Ap ‘17 300w

         =Cleveland= p58 Ap ‘17 50w

       + =Dial= 62:531 Je 14 ‘17 150w

  “The author’s remarkable ecclesiastical scholarship and his seemingly
  thorough acquaintance with classic and mediaeval Latin have enabled
  him to give us a little book that is balanced in content, fine in
  spirit and most interesting in manner.” Frank Macdonald

       + =N Y Call= p15 Jl 15 ‘17 380w

         =R of Rs= 55:557 My ‘17 100w

         =St Louis= 15:185 Je ‘17 50w


=ZAHM, JOHN AUGUSTINE (H. J. MOZANS, pseud.).= Quest of El Dorado; the
most romantic episode in the history of South American conquest. il
*$1.50 (5c) Appleton 918 17-25280

  Father Zahm is a South American explorer of note and author of several
  books on that country. In this volume he goes back to early history to
  tell the story of some of the expeditions that went in quest “of that
  extraordinary will-o’-the-wisp, usually known as El Dorado.” His study
  throws new light on the conquistadores, showing that they were not
  moved solely by thirst for gold. He says, “So marvelous were their
  achievements that, were they not attested by the most unquestionable
  of documents, we should be disposed to place the old chronicles which
  describe them in the same category as the Arthurian romances.” The
  chapters were written for the Pan-American Bulletin in 1912, and are
  reprinted with a few changes and additions. A bibliography gives a
  list of the principal works cited.

       + =Cath World= 106:546 Ja ‘18 230w

  “Scholarly volume.”

       + =Outlook= 117:516 N 28 ‘17 140w

  “A most romantic tale, carrying historical values, and touched with
  all the color and zest of fiction.”

       + =R of Rs= 57:220 F ‘18 160w

  “Rev. J. A. Zahm has recently collected all possible material
  regarding this celebrated legend, and the result is a book which is
  really a fascinating tale of adventure.”

       + =Springf’d Republican= p6 Ja 7 ‘18 270w


=ZANGWILL, ISRAEL.= Principle of nationalities. *50c (4c) Macmillan 904
17-14064

  This discourse formed the Conway memorial lecture, delivered at South
  Place institute, London, on March 8, 1917. Mr Zangwill argues that
  “neither identity of race, nor of language, nor of religion, nor of
  territory, nor of interests, nor of culture, nor of soul, is
  indispensable to a nationality,” but that it is “a state of mind
  corresponding to a political fact.” He then, after classifying the
  political varieties of nationality as simple, complex, compound and
  hybrid, goes on to consider “the psychological aspect and genesis of
  nationality.” He asserts that now that nationalism is closing in upon
  the world, we should remember that “the real needs of nationalities
  are not independence, but freedom from oppression,” and that
  “internationalism, so far from being the antithesis of nationalism,
  actually requires nations to interrelate.”

  “An analysis of nationality that is sane and penetrating.”

       + =A L A Bkl= 14:43 N ‘17

  “We do not know how the hearers digested it. A first reading gives us
  the impression of a pudding so full of fruit that we are amazed it
  keeps together so well.”

       + =Ath= p305 Je ‘17 120w

         =Cleveland= p107 S ‘17 40w

  “There is nothing that can be rightly called a positive conclusion to
  the work, though it sparkles with epigrams and contains many undoubted
  sociological truths stated in very concise and striking language.” J.
  W.

     – + =N Y Call= p15 Ag 19 ‘17 550w

  “The chief merit of Mr Zangwill’s thought is, indeed, just this: that
  it leaves the way open for the entrance of the idea that man may be
  intensely and locally patriotic and yet internationally right-minded.”

     + — =No Am= 206:639 O ‘17 850w

         =Springf’d Republican= p6 Jl 25 ‘17 500w


=ZIMMER, GEORGE FREDERICK.= Mechanical handling and storing of material.
il *$12.50 Van Nostrand 621.86 (Eng ed 16-17167)

  “The book is written from the British viewpoint, and while the author
  has included American practice he has of course not done so with the
  first-hand knowledge of an American. ... The forty-four chapters of
  the book are grouped under the heads of ‘Continuous handling of
  material,’ ‘Continuous handling of material by Pneumatic or hydraulic
  means,’ ‘Intermittent handling of material,’ ‘Unloading and loading
  appliances,’ ‘Miscellaneous installations’ and the ‘Automatic weighing
  of material’. Eighteen chapters under the first two groups cover all
  kinds of conveyors. Cableways and telphers are included in the third
  group.”—Engin News-Rec

         =Cleveland= p150 D ‘16 30w

  “The facts that the field of engineering which this bulky treatise
  covers has had an enormous development in the past quarter century,
  and that comparatively little on the subject has been published, are
  the principal justifications for the purchase of the book by American
  engineers. ... The illustrations and other mechanical work are hardly
  up to the standard of the price of the volume.”

         =Engin News-Rec= 78:364 My 17 ‘17 300w

  “Timely reprints from Cassier’s Engineering Monthly. Well
  illustrated.”

       + =N Y P L New Tech Bks= p9 O ‘17 70w

         =Pittsburgh= 22:125 F ‘17 60w

         =St Louis= 15:13 Ja ‘17

-----

Footnote 2:

  This book is mentioned for the first time in this volume.




    List of Documents and Pamphlets for Use in the Smaller Libraries


 Compiled by Miss Edna B. Gearhart, Documents Division, New York Public
                                Library

                         Under the Direction of

                         MISS ADELAIDE R. HASSE

=Accidents=

    Accidents and accident prevention in machine building. Lucian W.
      Chaney and Hugh S. Hanna. (U.S. Labor statistics. Bul. no. 216)
      117p pa 25c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Accounting=

    Accounting records for country creameries. John R. Humphrey. (U.S.
      Agric. Bul. no. 559) 37p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Accounting, Farm=

    Use of a diary for farm accounts. E. H. Thomson. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul.
      782) 19p ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Agricultural extension=

    County agricultural agent work in the northern and western states;
      status and results in 1916. W. R. Lloyd. (U.S. Agric. S.R.S. Doc.
      60. Circular 5, Extension N.) 26p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Agriculture=

    Bean culture. A. L. Strausz. (Washington. Agric. Experiment station.
      Popular Bul. no. 111) 4p pa ‘17 Pullman, Wash.

    Cabbage and cauliflower culture. C. B. Sprague. (Washington. Agric.
      Experiment station. Popular Bul. no. 110) 4p pa ‘17 Pullman, Wash.

    Celery culture. F. W. Allen. (Washington. Agric. Experiment station.
      Popular Bul. no. 109) 4p pa ‘17 Pullman, Wash.

    Farming on a war basis. O. R. Johnson. (Missouri. Agric. college.
      Extension service. Circular 31) 20p pa ‘17 Columbia, Mo.

    Field bean production. (N.J. Agric. Experiment station. Circular 70)
      4p pa ‘17 New Brunswick, N.J.

    Field pea production. E. G. Schafer and E. F. Gaines. (Wash. Agric.
      Experiment station. Bul. 140) 16p pa ‘17 Pullman, Wash.

    Forcing of strawberries. Florence I. Kinnison. (Colorado. Agric.
      Experiment station. Bul. 222) 8p pa ‘17 Fort Collins, Colo.

    Grow beans; beans will be needed for our army and navy; they are now
      worth $9 a bushel. (Wis. Agric. College extension service.
      Circular 71) 4p pa ‘17 Madison, Wis.

    Lettuce growing in California. Stanley S. Rogers. (California.
      Agric. Experiment station. Circular no. 160) 16p pa ‘17 Berkeley,
      Cal.

    Soybeans and cowpeas. J: R. Fain and P. O. Vanatter. (Georgia.
      College of agric. Extension div. Circular 46) 8p pa ‘17 Athens,
      Ga.

    Soybeans and cowpeas in Illinois. W. L. Burlison and O. M. Allyn.
      (Illinois. Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 198) 20p pa ‘17 Urbana,
      Ill.

    Soybeans: their culture and use. (Ohio. Agric. Experiment station.
      Bul. 312) 600p pa ‘17 Wooster, O.

    Tomato as a farm crop for the canning factory; prepared under the
      direction of C. G. Woodbury. H. J. Reed. (Indiana. Agric.
      Experiment station. Circular 59) 28p pa ‘17 La Fayette, Ind.

    _See also_ Corn; Crops; Dairying; Farm equipment; Farms; Feedstuffs;
      Foods; Gardening; Live stock; Milk; Poultry; Silos; Soils;
      Soybeans; Vegetables

=Alaska=

    Information for prospective settlers in Alaska. C. C. Georgeson.
      (Alaska. Agric. Experiment station. Circular no. 1, rev.) 30p il
      pa ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Amusements=

    Things I like to do, for boys and girls; a list of books of
      amusements. Lillian A. Sutherland, Public Library, Kansas City,
      Mo. 16p pa ea 10c; 100 copies $2 ‘16 Wilson, H. W.

=Apples=

                                  =Packing=

    Barrel packing of apples. C. L. Burkholder. (Indiana. Purdue univ.
      Dept. of agric. Extension Bul. no. 59) 8p pa ‘17 La Fayette, Ind.

    Modern methods of packing apples. (Canada. Agric. dept. Fruit
      branch. Bul. 2) 60p pa ‘17 Ottawa, Canada

    Packing of apples in California. Warren P. Tufts. (California. Univ.
      agric. Experiment station. Circular no. 178) 31p pa ‘17 Berkeley,
      Cal.

=Arbitration and conciliation=

    Railroad labor arbitrations; report of the U.S. Board of mediation
      and conciliation on the effects of arbitration proceedings upon
      rates of pay and working conditions of railroad employees;
      prepared under the direction of the Board, by William Jett Lauck.
      (U.S. 64th Cong., 1st sess. S. Doc. 493) 608p pa 45c ‘16 Supt. of
      doc.

    Railway strikes and lockouts; a study of arbitration and
      conciliation laws of the principal countries of the world
      providing machinery for the peaceable adjustment of disputes
      between railroads and their employees and laws of certain
      countries for the prevention of strikes. (U.S. Bd. of mediation
      and conciliation) 367p pa 30c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Art=

    National gallery of art. R: Rathbun. (U.S. National museum. Bul. 70)
      189p il cl $1 ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Arts and crafts=

    Annotated list of books on the arts for the teacher and student;
      comp. by Mildred H. Lawson; rev. by Royal B. Farnum. (Univ. of the
      State of N.Y. Bul. 633) 87p pa ‘17 Albany, N.Y.

    Art education; an investigation of the training available in New
      York city for artists and artisans. (Metropolitan museum of art,
      N.Y.) 46p pa 10c ‘16 New York, N.Y.

    Some facts concerning manual arts and homemaking subjects in 156
      cities. Joseph C. Park. (U.S. Educ. Bul. no. 36) 25p pa 5c ‘16
      Supt. of doc.

    _See also_ Basketry

=Asparagus=

    Asparagus. H. C. Thompson. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 829) 20p pa U.S.
      Agric.

=Babies=

    Baby health conferences; what they teach; comp. by Jessie P. Rich.
      (Texas. University. Bul. no. 1708) 18p pa ‘17 Austin, Tex.

    Goatsmilk for infant feeding. W. H. Jordan and G. A. Smith. (N.Y.
      Agric. Experiment station, Geneva. Bul. 429) 20p pa ‘17 Geneva,
      N.Y.

    What about the babies; an appeal in their behalf. (Mich. State board
      of health) 8p pa n.d. Lansing, Mich.

    What the baby health conferences teach; comp. by Jessie P. Rich.
      (Texas. Univ. Bul. 1708) 18p pa ‘17 Austin, Tex.

    _See also_ Children

=Basketry=

    Pine-needle basketry in schools. W: C. A. Hammel. (U.S. Educ. Bul.
      no. 3) 18p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Bees=

    Bees for the farmer. J. Troop and W. A. Price. (Indiana. Agric.
      Experiment station. Circular no. 61) 20p pa ‘17 La Fayette, Ind.

=Birds=

    Canaries, their care and management. Alexander Wetmore. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 770) 20p pa 5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    How to attract birds in northeastern United States. W. L. McAtee.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 621) 16p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    How to attract birds in the middle Atlantic states. W. L. McAtee.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 844) 16p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Book publication=

    Graphic survey of 1890-1916. Fred E. Woodward. (U.S. Educ. Bul.
      1917, no. 14) 26p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Book selection=

    Best books of 1915; selected for a small public library. (Univ. of
      the State of N.Y. Bul. 619, Library Bibliography Bul. 58) 65p ‘16
      Albany, N.Y.

    List of books for elementary and rural schools; comp. by Mary Royce
      Crawford. (Idaho. Education board. Bul. vol. 3, no. 3) 82p pa ‘17
      Boise, Idaho.

    1,000 good books for children, classified and graded list revised,
      1914; prepared by National congress of mothers’ literature
      committee, Alice M. Jordan, chairman. Reprint 1916 (U.S. Educ.
      Home education circular, no. 1; whole no. 634) 40p pa 5c ‘16 Supt.
      of doc.

=Boys’ and girls’ clubs=

    Boys’ and girls’ clubs. (Missouri. Agric. extension service, Project
      announcement no. 9) 23p pa ‘16 Columbia, Mo. Apply to your senator
      or congressman or the U.S. Agric.

    Boys’ and girls’ corn and cotton clubs. (Louisiana. Agric. and home
      economics extension work. Bul. no. 25) 28p pa ‘17 Baton Rouge, La.

    Boys’ club work in Florida. G. L. Herrington. (Florida. Univ. div.
      of agric. extension. Cooperative demonstration work in agric. and
      home economics. Bul. 8) 16p pa ‘17 Gainesville, Fla.

    Boys’ pig clubs. James E. Downing. (Georgia. College of agric.
      Extension div. Circular 44) 8p pa ‘17 Athens, Ga.

=Buttermaking=

    Buttermaking on the farm. George H. Barr. (Canada. Agric. Dairy and
      cold storage branch. Bul. no. 53) 16p pa ‘17 Ottawa, Canada

=Canning=

    Canned foods; modern processes of canning in the United States,
      general system of grading, and description of products available
      for export. (U.S. For. & dom. comm. Miscellaneous ser. no. 54) 79p
      pa 20c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Canning by the cold pack method. C. H. Lee and R. M. Atkinson.
      (Manitoba. Agric. and immigration. Extension Bul. no. 12) 23p pa
      ‘17 Winnipeg, Canada

    Canning for pleasure and profit. Elizabeth B. Kelly. (Wis. Univ.
      college of agric. Extension service. Circular 68) 16p pa ‘17
      Madison, Wis.

    Preservation of food: home canning; comp. by Ethel M. Chapman.
      (Ontario. Dept. of agric. Women’s institutes. Bul. 252) 31p pa ‘17
      Toronto, Canada

    _See also_ Gardening; Home economics

=Canning clubs=

    Marketing of canning club products. Lewis B. Flohr. (U.S. Markets
      bur. Doc.—Markets 5) 8p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Cats=

    Domestic cat, bird killer, mouser and destroyer of wild life; means
      of utilizing and controlling it. Edward Howe Forbush. (Mass. State
      bd. of agric. Economic biology. Bul. no. 2) 112p pa ‘16 Boston,
      Mass.

=Cattle=

    Breeds of dairy cattle. H. P. Dairs. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 893) 35p pa
      ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Celery storage=

    Celery storage experiments. H. C. Thompson. (U.S. Agric. Bul. no.
      579) 26p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Cheese=

    Home cheese making. H. F. Judkins and P. A. Downs. (Connecticut.
      Agric. college. Extension service. Bul. no. 9) 16p pa ‘17 Storrs,
      Conn.

    Methods of making some of the soft cheeses. W. W. Fisk. (New York.
      Cornell agric. Experiment station. Circular no. 30) 62p pa ‘15
      Ithaca, N.Y.

=Cheese factories=

    Correct payment for cheese factory milk by the Babcock test. J. L.
      Sammis. (Wisconsin. Agric. Experiment station. Bul. no. 276) 42p
      pa ‘17 Madison, Wis.

=Child labor=

    Child labor in warring countries; a brief review of foreign reports.
      Anna Rochester. (U.S. Children’s bur. Pub. no. 27. Industrial ser.
      no. 4) 75p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    List of references on child labor, compiled under the direction of
      H. H. B. Meyer, by Laura A. Thompson, librarian, Children’s
      bureau. (U.S. Children’s Bureau. Industrial ser. no. 3. Bureau
      pub. no. 18) 161p 20c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Rules and regulations made by the board consisting of the attorney
      general, the secretary of commerce, and the secretary of labor for
      carrying out the provisions of an act to prevent interstate
      commerce in the products of child labor, and for other purposes,
      approved Sept. 1, 1916. (U.S. Labor. Circular no. 1) 10p pa 5c ‘17
      Supt. of doc.

    Suggestive program for child labor day, January 29, 1917. (Univ. of
      the State of N.Y. Library ref. section) 12p pa ‘17 Albany, N.Y.

=Child welfare=

    Child welfare research station. (Iowa. State univ. Bul. n.s. 107)
      18p pa ‘16 Iowa City, Ia.

    Summary of child-welfare laws passed in 1916. (U.S. Children’s bur.
      Miscellaneous ser. no. 7) 74p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Children=

                                   =Foods=

    Food for growing children. Jessie P. Rich. (Texas. Univ. Bul. 1707)
      20p pa ‘17 Austin, Tex.

    Suggestions for infant feeding. Anna E. Richardson. (Texas. Univ.
      Bul. 1706) 11p pa ‘17 Austin, Tex.

    What to feed the children. Dorothy Reed Mendenhall and A. L.
      Daniels. (Wis. Univ. Agric. College extension service. Circular
      69) 10p pa ‘17 Madison, Wis.

=Children’s library=

    Child in the library. (Riverside public library. Bul. 146) 10p pa
      ‘17 Riverside, Cal.

=Citizenship=

    Proceedings of the first citizenship convention held at Washington,
      D.C., July 10-15, 1916. Raymond F. Crist. (U.S. Labor) 86p pa 10c
      ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Work of the public schools with the Bureau of naturalization in the
      preparation for citizenship responsibilities of the candidate for
      naturalization. (U.S. Bur. of naturalization. Extract from report
      of Comr., 1916) 50p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=City and county consolidation=

    Report of the Los Angeles realty board on city and county
      consolidation. 28p pa ‘17 Los Angeles, Cal.

=City planning=

    City planning. Frank G. Bates. (Indiana. Bur. of legislative
      information. Bul. no. 8) 31p pa Dec. ‘16 Fort Wayne, Ind.

=Coal=

    Economical purchase and use of coal for heating homes with special
      reference to conditions in Illinois; a non-technical manual for
      the householder and operator of small house-heating plants.
      (Illinois. Univ. Eng. Extension station. Circular no. 4) 58p pa
      10c ‘17 Urbana, Ill.

=Commerce=

    Act to regulate commerce (as amended) including text or related
      sections; rev. to Jan. 1, 1917 (U.S. Interstate commerce comm.)
      157p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Concluding chapter of the Federal trade commission report on
      cooperation in American export trade. (U.S. Federal trade comm.)
      14p pa 5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Report on cooperation in American export trade. (U.S. Federal trade
      comm.) 2v pa $1.15 ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Commercial organization, German=

    German foreign-trade organization with supplementary statistical
      material and extracts from official reports on German methods.
      Chauncey Depew Snow. (U.S. For. & dom. comm. Miscellaneous ser.
      no. 57) 182p pa 20c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Community and national life=

    Lessons in community and national life. (U.S. Educ. Community
      leaflets)

    No. 1. Sec. A. Designed for use in the upper classes of the high
      school. 32p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    No. 2. Sec. B. Designed for use in the upper grades of elementary
      schools and the first year of high school. 32p pa ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

    No. 3. Sec. C. Designed for use in the intermediate grades. 32p pa
      ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    These lessons will be issued each month during the school year,
      1917-18. They will be edited by Charles H. Judd, director of the
      school of education of the University of Chicago, and Leon C.
      Marshall, dean of the school of commerce and administration of the
      University of Chicago. The lessons will be prepared in three
      sections, namely, Section A, for the upper classes of high
      schools; Section B, for the upper grades of elementary schools and
      the first class of high schools; Section C, for intermediate
      grades of elementary schools. Each section will contain three or
      four lessons. Eight numbers of each section will be issued, one
      number appearing on the first of each calendar month. Copies may
      be purchased from the U.S. Food administration, Washington, D.C.,
      at the following prices: One copy, 5 cents; each additional copy
      in same order, 3 cents; 100 copies, $2; 500 copies, $5; 1,000
      copies, $9.50; subscriptions for the series of any section, eight
      times the prices named. Such subscriptions are urged in order to
      assure prompt and regular delivery.

=Conscription=

    Conscription in the Confederate states of America, 1862-1865. R. P.
      Brooks. (Ga. univ. Bul. vol. 17, no. 4) 442p pa ‘17 Athens, Ga.

=Cooperation=

    Business practice and accounts for cooperative stores. J. A. Bexell.
      (U.S. Agric. Bul. 381) 56p 5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Co operate! (Texas. Markets and warehouse commission. Bul. no. 37)
      36p pa ‘17 Austin, Tex.

    Cooperative associations, organizing. James E. Boyle. (N.D. Agric.
      Experiment station. Circular 16) 24p pa ‘17 Fargo, N.D.

    Cooperative retail delivery; the organization and methods of central
      delivery systems. Walton S. Bittner. (Indiana. Univ. Extension
      division. Bul. vol. 3, no. 1) 30p pa ‘17 Bloomington, Ind.

    How farmers may improve their personal credit through cooperation.
      C. W. Thompson. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 654) 16p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

    Survey of typical cooperative stores in the U.S. J. A. Bexell. (U.S.
      Agric. Bul. 394) 32p 5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Copyright=

    Copyright law of the United States of America; being the act of
      March 4, 1909, (in force July 1, 1909) as amended by the acts of
      August 24, 1912, March 2, 1913 and March 28, 1914, together with
      rules for practice and procedure under section 25 by the Supreme
      Court of the United States. (Copyright office. Bul. no. 14) 66p pa
      ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Corn=

    Corn. (N.J. Agric. Experiment station. Circular 69) 7p pa ‘17 New
      Brunswick, N.J.

=Corporations=

                            =Service instruction=

    Service instruction of American corporations. Leonhard F. Fuld.
      (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1916, no. 34) 73p pa 15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Cost of living=

    Food products report of Governor Beeckman’s committee on living
      costs in Rhode Island, pt. 2 21p pa Jan. 29, ‘17 Providence, R.I.

=Country life=

    Country church; an economic and social force. C. J. Galpin.
      (Wisconsin. Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 278) 48p pa ‘17
      Madison, Wis.

=Crops=

    Preparing for a large corn crop. George A. Crabb. (Georgia. State
      college of agric. Extension div. Circular 43) 4p pa ‘17 Athens,
      Ga.

=Dairying=

    Feeding and management of dairy calves and young dairy stock. W. K.
      Brainerd and H. P. Davis. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 777) 20p pa gratis
      ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Feeds for dairy cows; a comparative test of high silage and low
      mixed concentrates; low silage and high mixed concentrates; and
      silage and cotton seed meal rations. Milton P. Jarnagin and O. T.
      Goodwin. (Georgia. State college of agric. Extension circular 45)
      8p pa ‘17 Athens, Ga.

    How to keep a record of the dairy herd. C. H. Staples and C. W.
      Radway. (Louisiana. State univ. Extension division. Circular no.
      19) 12p pa ‘17 Baton Rouge, La.

    _See also_ Milk

=Danish West Indies=

    Danish West Indies; their resources and commercial importance. N. G.
      Brock, P. S. Smith, and W. A. Tucker. (U.S. Foreign and domestic
      commerce bur. Special agents ser.) 68p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Defective and delinquent classes=

    Mental aspects of delinquency. Truman Lee Kelley. (Texas univ. Bul.
      no. 1713) 125p pa ‘17 Austin, Tex.

    Municipal correction farms; a report from the new city Jail
      association of Los Angeles. 6p ‘17 Los Angeles, Cal.

=Dependents=

    Care of dependents of enlisted men in Canada. S. Herbert Wolfe.
      (U.S. Children’s Bur. Miscellaneous ser. no. 10) 56p pa 10c Supt.
      of doc.

=Digitalis=

    Activity of wild American digitalis. G: B. Roth. (U.S. Public health
      service. Reprint no. 391) 6p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Diplomatic service=

    Conference on training for foreign service called by the
      commissioner of education of the United States and held in the
      city of Washington, December 31, 1915. Glen Levin Swiggett. (U.S.
      Educ. Bul. 1917, no. 37) 67p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Divorce and desertion=

    Survey of the extent, financial and social cost of desertion and
      artificially broken homes in Kansas City, Missouri, during the
      year 1915. Eva M. Marquis. (Kansas City. Bd. of public welfare)
      51p pa ‘16 Kansas City, Mo.

=Drainage=

    Organization, financing, and administration of drainage districts.
      H. S. Yohe. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 815) 37p pa U.S. Agric.

    Tile drainage on the farm. E. R. Jones and O. R. Zeasman.
      (Wisconsin. Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 284) 32p pa ‘17
      Madison, Wis.

=Drinking fountains=

    Drinking fountains; investigation of fountains at the University of
      Minnesota. H. A. Whittaker. (U.S. Public health service. Reprint
      no. 397) 10p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Dyes and dyeing=

    Artificial dyestuff used in the United States, quantity and value of
      foreign imports and of domestic production, fiscal year 1913-14;
      with bibliography. Thomas H. Norton. (U.S. Foreign and domestic
      commerce bur. Special agents ser. 121) 254p pa 30c ‘16 Supt. of
      doc.

=Education=

    Development of arithmetic as a school subject. Walter Scott Monroe.
      (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1917, no. 10) 170p pa 20c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Digest of state laws relating to public education in force January
      1, 1915; comp. by William R. Hood, and others. (U.S. Educ. Bul.
      no. 47, 1915) 987p pa 60c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Education; publications relating to the above subject for sale by
      the superintendent of documents, Washington, D.C. 6th ed Price
      list 31. 51p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Money value of education. A. Caswell Ellis. (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1917,
      no. 22) 52p pa 15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Rural-teacher preparation in county training schools and high
      schools. H. W. Foght. (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1917, no. 31) 71p pa 10c
      ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Selected list of books on the education of early childhood. (U.S.
      Educ. Circular no. 1) 14p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Vocational teachers for secondary schools; what the Land-grant
      colleges are doing to prepare them. Chester D. Javis. (U.S. Educ.
      Bul. 1917, no. 38) 85p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

                                   =Negro=

    Study of the private and higher schools of colored people in the
      United States; prepared in cooperation with the Phelps-Stokes fund
      under the direction of Thomas Jesse Jones, specialist in the
      education of racial groups. (U.S. Educ.) 2v: v 1 (Bul. 1916, no.
      38) 423p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.; v 2 (Bul. 1916, no. 39) 724p pa
      $1.25 ‘17 Supt. of doc.

                               =Public service=

    University training for public service; a report of the meeting of
      the association of Urban universities, Nov. 15-17, 1915. (U.S.
      Educ. Bul. 1916, no. 30) 94p pa 15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Education, Secondary=

    Reorganization of English in secondary schools; report by the
      National joint committee on English representing the Commission on
      the reorganization of secondary education of the National
      education association and the National council of teachers of
      English; comp; by James Fleming Hosic. (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1917, no.
      2) 181p pa 20c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Eggs=

    Breeding for egg production: Part I, A study of annual and total
      production. E. D. Ball, B. Alder, and A. D. Egbert. (Utah. Agric.
      college. Experiment station. Bul. no. 148) 60p pa ‘16 Logan, Utah

    Breeding for egg production: Part II, Seasonal distribution of egg
      production with especial reference to “winter” egg production. E.
      D. Ball and Byron Alder. (Utah. Agric. Experiment station. Bul.
      149) 71p pa ‘17 Logan, Utah

    Care of eggs for market. M. C. Kilpatrick. (Ohio. Agric. college.
      Extension service. Bul. vol. XII, no. 1) 20p pa ‘17 Columbus, O.

    Community egg circle. C. E. Bassett and W. H. Kerr. (U.S. Farmers’
      Bul. 656) 8p pa 5c ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Egg production in cities, towns and villages. W. R. Graham.
      (Ontario. Agric. Circular no. 2) 7p pa ‘17 Toronto, Canada

    Feed cost of egg production; results of three years’ experiments at
      the government poultry farm. Harry M. Lamon and Alfred R. Lee.
      (U.S. Agric. Bul. no. 561) 42p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Increasing the winter yield of eggs. W. Theodore Wittman. (Pa.
      Agric. Bul. no. 219) 114p pa ‘17 Harrisburg, Pa.

    Marketing eggs by parcel post. Lewis B. Flohr. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul.
      830) 23p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Preserving eggs for the home. Byron Alder. (Utah. Agric. college.
      Experiment station. Circular no. 25) 8p pa ‘17 Logan, Utah

    Winter egg production. Alfred R. Lee. (U.S. Agric. Circular no. 71)
      4p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Employment and unemployment=

    Proceedings of employment managers’ conference. (U.S. Labor
      statistics. Bul. no. 196) 82p 10c May ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Proceedings of the American association of public employment
      offices, annual meetings, 1st, 2d, and 3d of May, 1916. (U.S.
      Labor statistics. Bul. no. 192) 177p pa 20c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Unemployment in the United States. (U.S. Labor statistics. Bul. no.
      195) 115p pa 15c June ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Engineering=

    Proper handling of clutches and gears. R. A. Leavell. (Ia. State
      college. Eng. extension dept. Bul. no. 26) 11p pa ‘17 Ames, Ia.

=Etiquet=

    Suggestions for the teaching of good manners in the elementary
      schools, prepared by the commissioner of elementary schools.
      (California State Board of educ. Bul. no. 18) 39p ‘16 Sacramento,
      Cal.

=Fairs=

    Community fair. J. Sterling Moran. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 870) 12p pa
      ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Farm bureaus=

    Farm-bureau organization plan; more farm bureaus needed to federate
      agricultural forces for national defense. L. R. Simons. (U.S.
      Cooperative extension work in agriculture and home economics.
      S.R.S. Doc. 54. Circular 4. Extension N.) 11p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Farm equipment=

    Concrete construction on the live-stock farm. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul.
      481) 32p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Equipment for farm sheep raising. V. O. McWhorter. (U.S. Farmers’
      Bul. 810) 27p pa U.S. Agric.

    Farm lighting systems. E. W. Lehmann. (Missouri. Agric. college.
      Extension service. Circular 39) 12p pa ‘17 Columbia, Mo.

    Minor articles of farm equipment. H. N. Humphrey and A. P. Yerkes.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 816) 15p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Self-feeder for hogs. F. G. Ashbrook and R. E. Gogwer. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 906) 12p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Self-feeders for fattening swine with directions for constructing a
      self-feeder. (Missouri. Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 144) 22p
      pa ‘17 Columbia, Mo.

=Farm labor=

    Plan for handling the farm-labor problem. (U.S. Agric. F. M.
      Circular 2) 31p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Farm loans=

    Farm loan primer; answers in brief form to questions most frequently
      asked about the Federal farm loan act. 2d ed. (Federal farm loan
      board. Circular no. 5) 12p Nov. 21, ‘16 Supt. of doc. Free if
      application is made to board

    How the Federal farm loan act benefits the farmer. C. W. Thompson.
      (Farmers’ Bul. 792) 12p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    New mortgages for old; a story illustrating the practical
      application of the Federal farm loan act. (Federal farm loan
      board. Circular no. 3) 13p Oct. 10, ‘16 Supt. of doc. Free if
      application is made to board

=Farm papers=

    Preparation for editorial work on farm papers. Nelson Antrim
      Crawford. (Kansas. State agric. college. Bul. v. 1, no. 5;
      Industrial journalism ser. 3) 35p pa ‘17 Manhattan, Kan.

=Farming=

    Successful farm life; a suggestive list of books. (Ohio. Brumback
      library of Van Wert county) 37p pa ‘17 Van Wert, O.

    Suggestions concerning checking and tabulating farm management
      survey data; a desk manual for investigators. (U.S. Farm
      management) 40p pa ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Waste land and wasted land on farms. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 745) 18p pa
      5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Calls attention to various ways through which non-productive land
      may be reclaimed on the average farm.

=Feeding and feeding stuffs=

    Feeding of dairy cows. Helmer Rabild, H. P. Davis, and W. K.
      Brainerd. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 743) 27p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Feeding stuffs of minor importance. F. W. Woll. (California. Univ.
      agric. Experiment station. Circular no. 167) 7p pa ‘17 Berkeley,
      Cal.

    Growing crops to reduce the feed bill. W: L. Slate. (Connecticut.
      Agric. college. Extension circular. 13) 4p pa ‘17 New Haven, Conn.

    Inspection of commercial feedstuffs. P. H. Smith. (Mass. Agric.
      Experiment station. Bul. no. 5) 69p Nov. ‘16 Amherst, Mass.

    Utilization of farm wastes in feeding live stock. S. H. Ray. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 873) 12p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Fertilizers=

    Manure from the sea. E. H. Jenkins and John Phillips Street. (Conn.
      Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 194) 13p pa ‘17 New Haven, Conn.

=Finance=

    Control of corporate finance with proposed new corporation law and a
      history of “High finance” in Indiana. Louie H. Oberreich. (Indiana
      Bur. of legislative information. Bul. no. 10) 66p pa Jan. ‘17 Fort
      Wayne, Ind.

=Flags=

    American flag; in prose, poetry and song. 2d ed, rev and enlarged
      (Michigan State library) 70p pa ‘16 Lansing, Mich.

    Municipal flags; prepared under the direction of James A. Kearns.
      (Chicago municipal reference Bul. 6) 23p pa ‘15 Chicago, Ill.

=Flies=

    House fly. L. O. Howard and R. H. Hutchison. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul.
      851) 23p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Food=

    Food economics; a series of special bulletins for the housewife.
      (N.Y. City Bur. of public health educ.) 22p pa ‘17 New York, N.Y.

    Food needs for 1918; agricultural program for the period beginning
      with the autumn of 1917. (U.S. Agric. Circular no. 75) 14p pa ‘17
      Supt. of doc.

    Human food from an acre of staple farm products. Morton O. Cooper
      and W. J. Spillman. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 877) 11p pa ‘17 U.S.
      Agric.

    News notes for public libraries. (U.S. Food administration. Food
      conservation division. Vol. 1, no. 1) 12p pa ‘17 The
      Administration, Washington, D.C.

    Possibilities of food from fish. (U.S. Fisheries. Economic circular
      no. 30) 4p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Practical suggestions regarding food values and the proper selection
      of a nutritious and economical diet. (Maine. Agric. Bul. vol. xvi,
      no. 1) 36p pa ‘17 Augusta, Me.

    Skim milk for human food. (U.S. Animal industry bur. A. I. 31) 2p pa
      ‘17 U.S. Animal industry bur.

    _See also_ United States—Food administration

=Food conservation=

    Food conservation number. (R.I. Health dept. Bul. Jl 1917) 61p pa
      ‘17 Providence, R.I.

    Ten lessons on food conservation; lessons 1 to 10. (U.S. Food
      administration) 64p pa ‘17 The Administration, Washington, D.C.

=Food production=

    Essentials in larger food production. Cyril G. Hopkins. (Ill. Agric.
      Experiment station. Circular no. 197) 4p pa ‘17 Urbana, Ill.

=Food supply=

    Food administration. H. C. Hoover. (U.S. Council of national
      defense) 32p pa ‘17

    Food-supply and conservation by the farmers for the farmers and
      every one who grows food or eats food. (Conn. Agric. college,
      Hartford county league) 8p pa ‘17 The League

    Some fundamental considerations affecting the food supply of the
      United States; memorandum prepared for the Committee on resources
      and food supply of the State council of defense. T: Forsythe Hunt.
      (Cal. Agric. Experiment station. Circular no. 163) 13p pa ‘17
      Berkeley, Cal.

=Foods=

    Bread and bread-making in the home. Caroline L. Hunt and H. L.
      Wessling. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 807) 23p pa gratis ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Cottonseed flour as a human food. Anna E. Richardson; recipes by
      Jennie R. Bear. (Texas univ. Bul. no. 1727) 13p pa ‘17 Austin,
      Tex.

    Economical use of meat in the home. C. F. Langworthy and C. L. Hunt.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 391) 29p gratis ‘16 U.S. Agric.

    Eggs and their value as food. C. F. Langworthy. (U.S. Agric Bul.
      471) 29p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Food charts; set of 15 charts (24 by 18 in.) outlining the
      composition and functions of food. (State relations service) rev
      ed $1 per set Supt. of doc.

    Food value and uses of poultry. H. W. Atwater. (U.S. Agric. Bul.
      467) 29p pa 5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Grayfish, try it. (U.S. Fisheries. Economic circular no. 22) 8p pa
      5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Potatoes, sweet potatoes, and other starchy roots as food. C. F.
      Langworthy. (U.S. Agric. Bul. 468) 29p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Practical suggestions regarding food values and the proper selection
      of a nutritious and economical diet. A. M. G. Soule. (Maine.
      Agric. Quarterly Bul. v. 16, no. 1) 36p pa ‘17 Augusta, Me.

    Preparation of vegetables for the table. Maria Parloa. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 256) 46p pa 5c ‘06 Supt. of doc.

    Principles of nutrition and nutritive value of foods. (U.S. Farmers’
      Bul. 142) 48p pa 5c ‘02 Supt. of doc.

    Sablefish, alias black cod; an introduction to one of the best and
      richest American food fishes, with recipes for cooking it. (U.S.
      Fisheries. Economic circular 23) 6p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Use of corn, kafir and cowpeas in the home. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 559)
      12p pa ‘13 U.S. Agric.

    War bread. (Missouri. College of Agric. Circular 23) 4p pa ‘17
      Columbia, Mo.

    War breads; how the housekeeper may help to save the country’s wheat
      supply. Ethel M. Chapman. (Ontario. Dept. of agric. Womens’
      institutes. Bul. 254) 16p pa ‘17 Toronto, Canada.

    The following bulletins are of interest in connection with Farmers’
      Bulletin no. 807 available for free distribution by the Department
      of agriculture.

    Cereal breakfast foods. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 249) 36p pa ‘06 U.S.
      Agric.

    Corn meal as a food and ways of using it. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 565)
      24p pa ‘14 U.S. Agric.

    How to select foods: (1) What the body needs. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul.
      808) 13p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.; (2) Cereal foods. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul.
      818) U.S. Agric.

=Foreigners, Books for=

    Books for new Americans. (Public library, Minneapolis, Minnesota)
      12p pa ‘17 Minneapolis, Minn.

=Fruits=

    Dependable fruits. (Ohio. Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 313) 614p
      pa ‘17 Wooster, O.

=Fuel=

    Economical firing of Tennessee and Kentucky coals underpower plant
      boilers. (Tennessee. University record. Vol. xx, no. 4) 16p pa ‘17
      Knoxville, Tenn.

=Fur-bearing animals=

    Laws relating to fur-bearing animals, 1917; a summary of laws in the
      United States and Canada relating to trapping, open seasons,
      propagation, and bounties. David E. Lantz. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul.
      911) 32p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Furnaces=

    Installation, care and operation of the house furnace. (Ia. State
      college. Eng. extension dept. Tech. service bul. 27) 16p pa ‘16
      Ames, Ia.

=Garbage=

    Disposal of city garbage by feeding to hogs. F. G. Ashbrook and J.
      D. Bebout. (U.S. Agric. Circular no. 80) 8p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Gardening=

    Educative and economic possibilities of school-directed home
      gardening in Richmond, Indiana. J. L. Randall. (U.S. Educ. Bul.
      no. 6) 25p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Flower gardening for school children in the elementary grades. (U.S.
      Educ. School home-garden. Circular no. 14) 4p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

    Garden making on vacant lots and the home vegetable garden. W. T.
      McCoun. (Canada. Dept. of agric. Dom. Exper. farms. Div. of
      horticulture. Circular no. 13) 16p pa ‘17 Ottawa, Canada

    Garden primer; how to plant and care for a vegetable garden. (N.Y.
      City, Mayor Mitchel’s food supply committee) 8p pa ‘17 New York,
      N.Y.

    Gardening in elementary city schools. 1. Why gardening should be
      introduced into the schools. 2. How gardening may be introduced
      into the schools. 3. How gardening may be promoted by the schools.
      C. D. Jarvis. (U.S. Educ. Bul. no. 40) 74p pa 15c ‘16 Supt. of
      doc.

    Have a backyard garden. (Wis. Agric. Extension service. Circular 72)
      8p pa ‘17 Madison, Wis.

    Helps on gardening and canning; prepared by H. J. Reed and Lella R.
      Gaddis. (Indiana. Purdue univ. Agric. Extension. Bul. no. 54) 8p
      pa ‘17 La Fayette, Ind.

    Home garden, home garden plan, spray calendar, pruning and spraying,
      garden tillage tools. W. B. Nissley. (N.Y. State school of Agric.
      on Long Island. Bul. v 2, no. 1) 12p pa ‘17 Farmingdale, N.Y.

    Home vegetable garden. W. R. Beattie. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 255) 47p
      pa 5c ‘06 Supt. of doc.

    Home vegetable gardening. C. E. Durst. (Ill. Univ. Agric. Experiment
      station. Circular no. 198) 56p pa ‘17 Urbana, Ill.

    Hotbeds and cold frames. T. F. Limbocker. (Colorado. Agric.
      Experiment station. Bul. 221) 8p pa ‘17 Fort Collins, Colo.

    School garden. L. C. Corbett. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 218) 41p pa 5c ‘05
      Supt. of doc.

    Small vegetable garden. (Missouri. Agric. v. 15, no. 7) 47p pa ‘17
      Columbia, Mo.

    Small vegetable garden; suggestions for utilizing limited areas.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 818) 44p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Vegetable garden for every home. S. C. Johnston. (Ontario. Agric.
      Circular no. 3) 12p pa ‘17 Toronto, Canada

    Weeds; how to control them. H. R. Cox. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 660) 29p
      pa 5c ‘15 Supt. of doc.

    _See also_ Fruits; Pruning; Trees and gardening

=Gasoline engines=

    Handbook on the care and operation of gasoline engines; prepared
      under direction of the captain commandant. (U.S. Coast guard) 92p
      pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Glass=

    Glass industry; report on the cost of production of glass in the
      United States. (U.S. For. & dom. comm. Miscellaneous ser. 60) 430p
      pa 35c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Grapes=

    Vinifero grapes in New York. R. D. Anthony under direction of U. P.
      Hedrick. (N.Y. Agric. Experiment station, Geneva. Bul. 432) 105p
      pa ‘17 Geneva, N.Y.

    Winter injury of grapes. F. E. Gladwin. (N.Y. Agric. Experiment
      station, Geneva. Bul. 433) 139p pa ‘17 Geneva, N.Y.

=Greenhouses=

    Fumigation of ornamental greenhouse plants with hydrocyanic-acid
      gas. E. R. Sasscer and A. D. Borden. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 880) 20p
      pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Guinea fowl=

    Guinea fowl. Andrew S. Weiant. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 858) 15p pa ‘17
      U.S. Agric.

=Hardware=

    Far eastern markets for American hardware; prepared under the
      supervision of Julean Arnold. (U.S. For. & dom. comm.
      Miscellaneous ser. no. 50) 145p pa 25c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Health=

    Amusement for convalescent children. William B. Forbush. (N.Y. State
      division of public health education. Circular no. 19) 4p ‘16
      Albany, N.Y.

    Conduct of an isolation period for communicable disease in a home.
      (N.Y. State division of public health education. Circular no. 154)
      4p ‘16 Albany, N.Y.

    Hygiene of the printing trades. Alice Hamilton and Charles H.
      Verrill. (U.S. Labor statistics. Bul. 209) 118p pa 20c Supt. of
      doc.

    Insects as possible carriers of poliomyelitis infection. C. T.
      Brues. (New York [city] Dept. of health. Reprint ser. no. 60) 43p
      pa ‘17 New York, N.Y.

    Municipal ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining to public
      health, 1915. (U.S. Public health. Reprint no. 364) 642p 50c ‘17
      Supt. of doc.

    Poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis); information for parents,
      physicians and health officers. (N. Y. State division of public
      health education. Circular no. 25) 7p ‘16 Albany, N.Y.

    Poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis); present knowledge of its cause
      and manner of spread. (U.S. Public health service. Reprint no.
      373) 4p 5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Saving mothers. (U.S. Children’s bur.) 3p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Teachers and communicable disease. (N. Y. State division of public
      health education. Circular no. 13) 12p ‘16 Albany, N.Y.

    Trend of legislation for public health. Arthur Connors. (Indiana
      Bur. of legislative information. Bul. no. 9) 38p pa Dec. ‘16 Fort
      Wayne, Ind.

    Typhoid fever; information for patients, physicians and health
      officers. (N. Y. State division of publicity and education.
      Circular no. 16) 8p ‘15 Albany, N.Y.

    _See also_ Public health

=History=

    Opportunities for history teachers; the lessons of the great war in
      the classroom. National board of historical service. (U.S. Educ.
      Teachers’ leaflet no. 1) 22p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Hogs=

    Control of hog cholera; with a discussion of the results of field
      experiments. (U.S. Agric. Bul. 584) 18p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Hog and corn ratios; report of commission appointed by the United
      States Food administration to investigate the cost of producing
      hogs. (U.S. Food administration. Meat division) 17p pa ‘17
      Chicago, Ill.

    Hog cholera; prevention and treatment. M. Dorset and O. B. Hess.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 834) 32p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Prices of hogs; statement by Joseph P. Cotton. (U.S. Food
      administration. Meat division) 3p pa ‘17 The Administration,
      Washington, D.C.

    Swine feeding; I. Barley vs. rye for fattening pigs, II. Barley vs.
      barley and meat meal for fattening pigs. A. D. Faville. (Wyoming.
      Univ. agric. Experiment station. Bul. 114) 8p pa ‘17 Laramie, Wyo.

    Swine-judging suggestions for pig-club members. J. D. McVean and F.
      G. Ashbrook. (U.S. Agric. Circular 83) 14p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Swine management. George M. Rommel and F. G. Ashbrook. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 874) 38p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Holiday programs=

    Memorial day; Lincoln, Douglas, Grant; comp. by H. T. Swift.
      (Illinois. Public instruction dept. circular) 64p pa ‘16
      Springfield, Ill.

    Patriotic days ... February 12, February 22; comp. by Florence B.
      Bartlett. (New Mexico. Educ.) 27p pa ‘17 Santa Fé, New Mex.

    Twenty-sixth annual program for the observation of Arbor day in the
      schools of Rhode Island. (R.I. Educational circular. May 11) 32p
      pa ‘17 Providence, R.I.

=Home economics=

    Brief courses in home making for normal schools. (U.S. Educ.
      Circular Je 27, 1917) 11p pa Supt. of doc.

    Corn meal as a food and ways of using it. C. F. Langworthy and
      Caroline L. Hunt. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 565) 28p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Dandelions as food. Lucile Brewer and Helen Canon. (Cornell reading
      course for the farm home. Vol. 5. no. 105) 91p pa ‘16 Ithaca, N.Y.

    Drying fruits and vegetables. Addie D. Root. (Missouri. Agric.
      Extension service. Circular 23) 4p pa ‘17 Columbia, Mo.

    Drying fruits and vegetables in the home, with recipes for cooking.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 841) 29p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Fats and their economical use in the home. A. D. Holmes and H. L.
      Lang. (U.S. Agric. Bul. 469) 27p pa 5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Handbook in sewing for girls. Agnes A. Hunt. (Arizona. College of
      agric. Extension service. Circular no. 18) 22p pa 17 Tucson, Ariz.

    Hints to house wives on how to buy, how to care for food, etc. (New
      York city. Mayor Mitchel’s Food supply committee) 111p pa ‘17 New
      York, N.Y.

    Home canning by the one period cold-pack method. O. H. Benson. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 839) 39p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Home canning of fruits and vegetables; as taught to canning club
      members in the southern states. Mary E. Creswell and Ola Powell.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 853) 41p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Home made fruit butters. C. P. Close. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 900) 7p pa
      ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Home management. (Iowa. State college of agric. and mechanic arts.
      Home economic Bul. no. 6) 19p pa ‘17 Ames, Ia.

    How to feed the family. Matilda Schroeder Liftman. (N.Y. Public
      health education. Keep well leaflet no. 2) 32p pa ‘16 New York,
      N.Y.

    How to make cottage cheese on the farm. K. J. Matheson and F. R.
      Commack. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 850) 15p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    How to select foods:

    1. What the body needs. Caroline L. Hunt and H. W. Atwater. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 808) 14p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    2. Cereal foods. Caroline L. Hunt and H. W. Atwater. (U.S. Farmers’
      Bul. 817) 23p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    3. Foods rich in protein. Caroline L. Hunt and H. W. Atwater. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 824) 19p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Jelly making. Alma L. Garvin. (Indiana. Purdue univ. Dept. of agric.
      Extension leaflet no. 86) 4p pa ‘17 La Fayette, Ind.

    Partial substitutes for wheat in breadmaking. Hannah L. Wessling.
      (U.S. Cooperative extension work in agriculture and home
      economics. S.R.S. Doc. 64, Extension S. No. A-91) 11p pa ‘17 Supt.
      of doc.

    Peppers; growing and canning. (U.S. State relation service. Doc. 39;
      Extension ser. no. A-84) 8p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Pickles and relishes. Carrie L. Pancoast. (Missouri. Agric. college.
      Extension service. Circular 35) 4p pa ‘17 Columbia, Mo.

    Planning and serving meal. (Iowa State college of agriculture and
      mechanical arts. Home economics bul. no. 1) 32p ‘16 Ames, Ia.

    Planning of meals. Lelia McGuire. (Ohio Agric. college. Extension
      service. Bul. v. 12, no. 3) 16p pa ‘17 Columbus, O.

    Planning the costume. (Iowa State college of agriculture and
      mechanical arts. Home economics bul. no. 9) 35p pa ‘16 Ames, Ia.

    Preservation of foods; canning and drying fruits and vegetables. Mrs
      E. B. Binz. (Pa. Agric. Bul. No. 298) 18p pa ‘17 Harrisburg, Pa.

    Preserves, relishes and pickles. Sadie R. Guseman. (W. Va. College
      of agric. Extension dept. Girls’ club instruction circular 73) 8p
      pa ‘16 Morgantown, W.Va.

    Preserving fish for domestic use. (U.S. Fisheries. Economic circular
      28) 2p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Removal of stains from clothing and other textiles. Harold L. Land
      and Anna H. Whittelsey. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 861) 35p pa ‘17 U.S.
      Agric.

    Serving of meals. Rhoda E. Dick. (Ohio. State univ. Agric. extension
      service. Bul. vol. 13, no. 2) 16p pa ‘17 Columbus, O.

    Sugar-beet sirup. C. O. Townsend and H. C. Gore. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul.
      823) 13p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    A simple process for home use with garden grown beets.

    Three short courses in home making. Carrie Alberta Lyford. (U.S.
      Educ. Bul. 1917, no. 23) 104p pa 15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Use of corn, kafir, and cowpeas in the home. C. F. Langworthy and
      Caroline L. Hunt. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 559) 15p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Using dried beans, peas and other legumes as food. Mary L. Matthews.
      (Indiana. Purdue univ. Dept. of agric. Extension leaflet no. 85)
      6p pa ‘17 La Fayette, Ind.

    Ways of using rhubarb. Lucile Brewer. (Cornell reading course for
      the farm home. Vol. 5. no. 107) 107p pa ‘16 Ithaca, N.Y.

    Why and how to use salt and smoked fish; sixty-one ways of cooking
      them. (U.S. Fisheries. Economic circular no. 29) 8p pa 5c ‘17
      Supt. of doc.

    _See also_ Vegetables

=Horses=

    How to select a sound horse. H. N. Reese. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 779)
      27p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Judging horses as a subject of instruction in secondary schools.
      (U.S. Agric. Bul. 487) 31p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Immigration=

    Immigration laws (Act of February 5, 1917); rules of May 1, 1917.
      (U.S. Immigration) 97p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Immigrants=

    Public facilities for educating the alien; prepared by F. E.
      Farrington. (U.S. Educ. Bul. no. 18) 49p pa 10c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Education=

    Rochester plan of immigrant education; prepared by C: E. Finck;
      reprint from the twelfth annual report. (N.Y. [state] Dept. of
      educ.) 26p pa ‘16 Albany, N.Y.

=Industrial relations=

    Final report and testimony submitted to Congress by Commission on
      industrial relations created by act of Aug. 23, 1912. (U.S. 64th
      Cong., 1st sess. S. Doc. 415) 10v cl ea $1 ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Insects, Injurious=

    Aphids injurious to orchard fruits, currant, gooseberry and grape.
      A. L. Quaintance and A. C. Baker. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 804) 42p pa
      5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Insects injuring stored food products in Connecticut. W. E. Britton.
      (Conn. Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 195) 21p pa ‘17 New Haven,
      Conn.

    Bulletins of this station are mailed free to citizens of Connecticut
      who apply for them, and to others as far as the editions permit.

    Plant lice injurious to apple orchards; II. Studies on control of
      newly-hatched aphides. H. P. S. Parrott, H. E. Hodgkiss, and F. H.
      Lathrop. (N.Y. Agric. Experiment station, Geneva. Bul. 431) 79p pa
      ‘17 Geneva, N.Y.

    Suggestions for the control of injurious insects and plant disease.
      G. M. Bently. (Tenn. Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 117) 123p pa
      ‘17 Knoxville, Tenn.

=Insurance, Health=

    Its relation to the public health. B. S. Warren and Edgar
      Sydenstriker. (U.S. Public health service. Bul. 76) 76p pa. 10c
      ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Insurance, War risk=

    Uncle Sam’s insurance for soldiers and sailors; answers to questions
      you will ask. (U.S. Treasury. Official bul. no. 4) 7p ‘17 U.S.
      Treasury

=Irrigation=

    Construction and use of farm weirs. Victor M. Cone. (U.S. Farmers’
      Bul. 813) 19p pa U.S. Agric.

=Jewish life=

    Bibliography of Jewish life in the fiction of America and England.
      Rebecca Schneider. (Univ. of the State of N.Y.) ‘16 Albany, N.Y.

=Journalism=

    Iowa desk book of newspaper practices. Conger Reynolds. (Iowa.
      University extension. Bul. no. 27) 60p pa ‘17 Iowa City, Ia.

=Kindergarten=

    Kindergarten legislation. Louise Schofield. (U.S. Educ. Bul. no. 45)
      30p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Labor=

    Industrial unrest in Great Britain. (U.S. Labor statistics. Bul. no.
      237) 240p pa 25c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Liberty bonds=

    United States government bonds of the Second liberty loan; what they
      are and how to buy them. (U.S. Publicity. Second liberty loan.
      1917) 8p pa ‘17 The Bureau, Washington. D.C.

=Liberty loan=

    The Liberty loan; an address of Hon. W. G. McAdoo ... delivered at a
      meeting of business men and bankers of Iowa in Des Moines, May 21.
      (U.S. 65th Cong. 1st sess. Senate doc. no. 40) 13p pa ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

=Libraries=

    Plan of organization for small libraries; methods of work, list of
      supplies and aids. Mrs M. C. Budlong. (N.D. Public library comm.)
      rev ed 65p pa ‘16 Bismarck, N.D.

    _See_ Children’s libraries

=Libraries as community centers=

    Where neighbors meet; an account of the use of assembly and club
      rooms in the St Louis public library. Margery Quigley. 59p pa ‘17
      Public library, St Louis, Mo.

=Lightning, Protection=

    Modern methods of protection against lightning. Roy N. Covert. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 842) 32p pa U.S. Agric.

=Literature=

    Naming of characters in the works of Charles Dickens. Elizabeth H.
      Gordon. (Univ. of Neb. Studies in language, literature, and
      criticism, no. 1) 35p pa ‘17 Lincoln, Neb.

=Live stock=

    Community live stock breeding. S. T. Simpson. (Missouri. Agric.
      college. Extension service. Circular 33) 4p pa ‘17 Columbia, Mo.

    How to feed live stock successfully. C. A. Willson. (Tennessee.
      Univ. Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 106) 106p pa ‘16 Knoxville,
      Tenn.

=Louisiana=

    Hand-book of Louisiana giving general and agricultural features;
      together with crops that can be grown and description of each
      parish, climate, health, education, industries, etc. il 208p ‘17
      Louisiana. State board of agriculture and immigration, Baton
      Rouge. Free; Write Comr. Harry D. Wilson

=Lumber=

    Substitution of other materials for wood; studies of the lumber
      industry, part 11. Rolf Thelen. (U.S. Agric. Report no. 117) 78p
      pa 15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Lumber industry=

    Some public and economic aspects of the lumber industry, pt 1.
      Studies of the lumber industry. W: B. Greeley. (U.S. Agric. Rept.
      no. 114) 25p pa 25c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Manual training=

    Some facts concerning manual arts and homemaking subjects in 156
      cities. J. C. Park and C. L. Harian. (U.S. Educ. Bul. no. 32) 25p
      pa 5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Meat=

    Meat situation in United States; Part 1. Statistics of live stock
      meat production and consumption prices and international trade. G.
      K. Holmes. (U.S. Agric. Report 109) 307p pa 35c July ‘16 Supt. of
      doc.

    —Same; Part 2. Live stock production in 11 far western range states,
      based on reports from stockmen and country correspondents. William
      C. Barnes and J. T. Jardine. (U.S. Agric. Report 110) 100p pa 15c
      July 1, ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    —Same; Part 3. Methods and cost of growing beef cattle in corn belt
      states. J. S. Cotton, and others. (U.S. Agric. Report 111) 64p pa
      15c July 1, ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    —Same; Part 4. Utilization and efficiency of available American feed
      stuffs. W. F. Ward and S. H. Ray. (U.S. Agric. Report 112) 27p pa
      5c June 8, ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    —Same; Part 5, Methods and cost of marketing live stock and meats.
      L. D. Hall, and others. (U.S. Agric. Report 113) 98p pa 25c Oct.
      7, ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Preservation of meat. (North Dakota. Agric. college. Extension Bul.
      no. 12) 22p pa ‘17 Agricultural college, N.D.

    Production of baby beef. S. H. Ray. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 811) 22p pa
      ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Mexico=

    Mexico; a review and a forecast. John Barrett. (Pan-American union)
      15p pa ‘17 Washington, D.C.

=Military training=

    Military training of youths of school age in foreign countries. W.
      S. Jesien. (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1917, no. 25) 35p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

    Universal military training; bibliography and selected arguments,
      ed. by E. D. Shurter. (Texas. University. Bul. 1916, no. 2) 50p pa
      ‘16 Austin. Tex.

=Milk=

    Commission on milk standards; third report of the commission on milk
      standards appointed by the New York milk committee. (U.S. Public
      health service. Reprint no. 386) 28p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Cost of distributing milk in six cities and towns in Massachusetts.
      Alexander E. Cance and Richard Hay Ferguson. (Mass. Agric.
      Experiment station. Bul. no. 173) 54p pa ‘17 Amherst, Mass.

    Guide for formulating a milk ordinance. (U.S. Agric. Bul. no. 585)
      4p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Progress report of the production and distribution of milk. Elwood
      Mead. (California. Univ. agric. Experiment station. Circular no.
      175) 16p pa ‘17 Berkeley, Cal.

    Pure milk and how to get it. (Texas. Univ. Bul. 1711) 6p pa ‘17
      Austin, Tex.

    Report on the more economic distribution and delivery of milk in the
      city of Chicago. Committee on health, Chicago city council.
      (Municipal reference library. Bul. no. 8) 15p pa ‘17 Chicago, Ill.

    Safe milk an important food problem. Ernest A. Sweet. (U.S. Public
      Health. Supplement no. 31) 24p pa 5c Supt. of doc.

    Some suggestions in connection with the milk problem; the cost of
      producing milk. (N.Y. Cornell extension. Bul. 12) 457p pa ‘17
      Ithaca, N.Y.

    Study in the cost of producing milk on four dairy farms, located in
      Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina. Morton O.
      Cooper, C. M. Bennett, L. M. Church. (U.S. Agric. Bul. no. 501)
      35p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Milling tests=

    Practical milling tests. E. F. Ladd. (N.D. Agric. Experiment
      station. Circular 15) 11p pa ‘17 Fargo, N.D.

=Moles=

    Common moles of eastern United States. Theodore H. Scheffer. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 583) 12p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Trapping moles and utilizing their skins; with especial reference to
      the Pacific coast states. Theodore H. Scheffer. (U.S. Farmers’
      Bul. 832) 14p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Monetary systems=

    Monetary systems of the principal countries of the world. (U.S.
      Mint) 75p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Mortality statistics=

    Maternal mortality from all conditions connected with childbirth in
      the United States and certain other countries. Grace L. Meigs.
      (U.S. Children’s bur. Misc. ser. no. 6; Bur. Pub. no. 19) 65p pa
      ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Moths=

    Gipsy moth and the brown-tail moth and their control. A. P. Burgess.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 845) 28p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Municipal government=

    Ashtabula plan of municipal government; the commission manager form
      with proportional representation; charter and account of first
      election, Nov. 2, 1915. 15p gratis n.d. Chamber of commerce,
      Ashtabula, Ohio (obtainable through National short ballot
      organization, 381 Fourth av., N. Y.)

    City manager plan for Chicago; draft bill for the reorganization of
      the municipal government with explanatory statement. (Chicago.
      Bur. public efficiency) 60p pa ‘17 Chicago, Ill.

    City manager plan of municipal government; prepared by J. H. Quire.
      (Cal. Univ. Extension division. Bul. n.s. v. 1, no. 18) 22p pa ‘16
      Berkeley, Cal. Bibliography.

    Research progress facts; a year of governmental research with
      certain facts about our city, county and schools, their progress
      during 1916-17. (Dayton. Bur. of research) 39p pa ‘17 Dayton, O.

    What is the city-manager plan? Herman G. James. rev ed (Univ. of
      Texas. Bul. no. 1702; Municipal research ser. no. 14) 33p pa ‘17
      Austin, Tex.

=Municipal markets=

    City markets; how to start and operate a city public retail market.
      Frank T. Stockton. (Indiana univ. Extension division. Bul. vol. 2,
      no. 11) 16p pa ‘17 Bloomington, Ind.

=Munitions factories=

    Industrial efficiency and fatigue in British munition factories.
      (U.S. Labor. Bul. 230) 203p pa 20c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Mushrooms=

    Some common edible and poisonous mushrooms. Flora W. Patterson and
      Vera K. Charles. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 796) 24p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

=Muskrat=

    Muskrat as a fur bearer with notes on its use as food. David E.
      Lantz. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 869) 23p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=National defense=

    Selected list of books on national defense, military and naval
      science and law in the public library. (Boston public library.
      Brief reading list. no. 1) 28p pa ‘17 Boston, Mass.

=National guard—United States.= See United States—Militia.

=Naval training=

    Lectures delivered to civilian volunteers; naval training cruise for
      civilians, 1916 (U.S. Bur. of navigation) 77p pa 10c ‘16 Supt. of
      doc.

=Painting=

    Rules and regulations pertaining to the painting business.
      (Massachusetts. Board of labor and industries. Industrial bul. no.
      13) 7p pa ‘17 Boston, Mass.

=Panama canal=

    Treaties and acts of Congress relating to the Panama canal, 1917.
      180, xxxviiip pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Paper=

    Report of the Federal trade commission on news-print paper industry.
      162p pa 10c Supt. of doc.

    Studies on paper pulps. W. H. Smith. (U.S. Stand., Technological
      paper no. 88) 13p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Parks=

    National parks portfolio; a collection of nine separate pamphlets,
      each describing one of our national parks: “a panorama of our
      principal national parks set side by side for their study and
      comparison.” June ‘16 U.S. Interior.

    Town common. In Planning and commons. (Mass. Agric. college.
      Extension service bul. no. 7) 12p June ‘16 Amherst, Mass.

=Pavements=

    Report upon pavements recently built. Ira O. Baker. (Chicago Bd. of
      local improvements) 49p pa ‘16 Urbana, Ill.

=Pensions=

    Governmental provisions in the United States and foreign countries
      for members of the military forces and their dependents. (U.S.
      Children’s bur. Pub. no. 28, Miscellaneous ser. no. 11) 236p pa
      25c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Laws of the United States governing the granting of army and navy
      pensions together with regulations relating thereto; comp. under
      the direction of Commissioner of pensions. (U.S. Bur. of pensions)
      187p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    State pension systems for public school teachers with bibliography,
      prepared for Committee on teachers’ salaries, pensions, and tenure
      of National education association by W. C. Ryan, jr. and Roberta
      King. (U.S. Educ. Bul. 14) 46p pa 10c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Physical training=

    Training; general plan and syllabus for physical training in the
      elementary and secondary schools of the State of New York. (Univ.
      of the State of N. Y.) 46p pa 10c ‘16 Supt of doc.

=Pike=

    Pikes; their geographical distribution, habits, culture and
      commercial importance. William Converse Kendall. (U.S. Fisheries.
      Doc. no. 853) 42p pa 5c Supt. of doc. Bibliography.

=Pilots and pilotage=

    Pilotage in the United States; summary of laws, and regulations
      relating to pilotage in the several states. Grosvenor M. Jones.
      (U.S. For. & dom. comm. Special agents ser. no. 136) 102p pa 15c
      ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Poisons=

    Industrial poisons used or produced in the manufacture of
      explosives. Alice Hamilton. (U.S. Labor. Bul. 219) 141p pa ‘17
      Supt. of doc.

=Poles=

                                =Preservation=

    Butt treatment of wooden poles. (Iowa, State college of agric. and
      mechanical arts. Tech. service Bul. 28) 19p pa ‘17 Ames, Ia.

=Political science=

    Documents and debates relating to initiative, referendum, recall,
      elections, prohibition, woman suffrage, political parties,
      District of Columbia. (Price list 54. 4th ed., Dec. 1916) 32p pa
      ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Ports=

    Ports of the United States. Grosvenor M. Jones. (U.S. Foreign and
      domestic commerce bureau. Miscellaneous ser. no. 33) 431p pa 75c
      ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Potatoes=

    Potato grades recommended by the United States Department of
      agriculture and the United States Food administration. (U.S.
      Markets bur. Doc.—Markets 7) 4p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Poultry=

    Brooding and feeding little chicks. Horace Atwood. (West Virginia.
      Agric. Experiment station. Circular 26) 15p pa ‘17 Morgantown,
      W.Va.

    Chicken management on the farm. R. M. Sherwood, W. A. Lippincott,
      and others. (Kansas. Agric. Experiment station. Circular no. 60)
      23p pa ‘17 Topeka, Kan.

    Crate-feeding poultry for market. F. E. Mussehl. (Wis. Univ. college
      of agric. Extension service. Circular 66) 8p pa ‘17 Madison, Wis.

    Farm poultry; with the results of some experiments in poultry houses
      and fattening chickens. W. R. Graham and F. N. Marcellus.
      (Ontario. Agric. college. Bul. 247) 80p pa ‘17 Toronto, Canada.

    Feeding and housing winter layers. (U.S. Agric. Cooperative
      extension work in agriculture and home economics. S.R.S. Doc. 61.
      Extension N.) 4p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Feeding for egg production. Horace Atwod. (West Virginia. Agric.
      Experiment station. Circular 27) 32p pa ‘17 Morgantown, W.Va.

    Poultry facts expressed briefly. C. T. Patterson. (Missouri. State
      poultry. Experiment station) 39p pa ‘17 Mountain Grove, Mo.

    Poultry house. (West Virginia. College of agric. Extension dept.
      Circular 148) 4p pa ‘17 Morgantown, W.Va.

    Poultry-keeping in town and country. F. C. Elford. (Canada. Dept. of
      Agric. Dom. exper. farms. Poultry division. Bul. no. 89) 47p pa
      ‘17 Ottawa, Canada.

    Poultry on the farm. J. E. Dougherty. (California. Univ. agric.
      Experiment station. Circular no. 186) 4p pa ‘17 Berkeley, Cal.

    Raising ducks, geese and turkeys; suggestions for teachers in
      secondary schools. H. P. Barrows. (U.S. Agric. States relation
      service. S.R.S. doc. 57) 10p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Rearing of chickens. Milligan C. Kilpatrick. (Ohio. Agric. College.
      Extension service. Bul. v. 12, no. 6) 24p pa ‘17 Columbus, O.

    Some common poultry parasites. C. A. Lueder. (West Virginia. College
      of agric. Extension dept. Circular 142) 8p pa ‘17 Morgantown,
      W.Va.

    Standard varieties of chickens: the American class. Robert R.
      Slocum. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 806) 19p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Start a flock; Uncle Sam’s egg basket is low. J. B. Hayes and F. E.
      Mussehl. (Wis. Univ. Agric. Extension service. Circular 73) 8p pa
      ‘17 Madison, Wis.

    Study of the effect of cottonseed meal vs. beef scrap upon the egg
      production, fertility and vitality of poultry. (Oklahoma. Agric.
      Experiment station. Bul. 112) 20p pa ‘17 Stillwater, Okla.

    Turkey raising. Andrew S. Weiant. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 791) 26p pa
      ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    War rations for poultry. (Connecticut. Agric. college. Reprint from
      press Bul. May 7) 1p pa ‘17 New Haven, Conn.

=Poultry houses=

    Farmers’ poultry house. J. G. Halpin and L. M. Schindler. (Univ.
      Wis. Circular 62) 4p pa plans, specifications ‘16 Madison, Wis.

    Poultry houses. W. F. Schoppe. (Montana. Agric. college. Experiment
      station. Circular 72) 69p pa ‘17 Bozeman, Mont.

=Poultry products=

    Increase and conserve poultry products. R. E. Jones. (Connecticut.
      Agric. college. Extension service. Circular 12) 4p pa ‘17 New
      Haven, Conn.

=Prices=

    Wholesale prices, 1890-1915. (U.S. Labor. Bul. 200; Wholesale price
      ser. 5) 295p pa 25c July ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Wholesale prices of leading articles in United States markets,
      January, 1914 to December, 1916. (U.S. For. & dom. comm.,
      Miscellaneous ser. no. 52) 14p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Profit sharing=

    Profit sharing in the United States. Boris Emmet. (U.S. Labor
      statistics, whole no. 208) 188p pa 20c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Pruning=

    Pruning. L. C. Corbett. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 181) 35p pa ‘17 U.S.
      Agric.

    Pruning fruit trees. W. H. Alderman and E. C. Auchter. (West
      Virginia. Dept. of horticulture. Bul. 164) 40p pa ‘17 Morgantown,
      W.Va.

=Public health=

    Principles of administrative control of communicable diseases in
      large cities. John S. Billings. (New York [city] Dept. of health.
      Reprint ser. no. 46) 7p pa ‘16 New York, N.Y.

    State laws and regulations pertaining to public health adopted
      during the year 1915. (U.S. Public health service. Reprint no.
      338) 612p pa 70c. ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    _See also_ Sanitation

=Rabbits=

    Raising Belgian hares and other rabbits. David E. Lantz. (U.S.
      Farmers’ Bul. 496) 16p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Railways=

    Address delivered at the annual meeting of the National association
      of railway commissioners, held at Washington, D. C., on Nov. 14,
      1916. Robert R. Prentis. (U.S. 64th Cong., 2d sess. S. Doc. 639)
      19p 5c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=Rats=

    House rats and mice. David E. Lantz. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 896) 24p pa
      ‘17 U.S. Agric.

=Reading courses=

    Reading course for the elementary schools of the State of New York;
      prepared by a committee of the State association of district
      superintendents; reprint from 12th annual report. (Univ. of the
      State of N. Y. School libraries division) 14p ‘16 Albany, N.Y.

    Suggested readings for history classes, 1916-17; prepared by Avery
      W. Skinner. (Univ. of the State of N. Y. Examination and
      inspection division) 16p ‘17 Albany, N.Y.

=Recreation=

    List of references on play and grounds. (U.S. Educ.) 8p gratis ‘16
      Supt. of doc.

    Plays for the rural community. Bernard Sobel. (Indiana. Purdue univ.
      Dept. of agric. Extension leaflet no. 84) 4p pa ‘17 La Fayette,
      Ind.

    Recreation movement in Iowa schools and communities; plans prepared
      by Mrs. E. B. Wilson. (Iowa Dept. of public instruction) 58p pa
      Dec. ‘16 Des Moines, Ia.

=Red cross=

    Red cross; a reference list. (Riverside public library. Bul. 147)
      23p pa ‘17 Riverside, Cal.

    Regulations governing the employment of the American Red cross in
      time of war. 11p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Roads=

    Earth, sand-clay, and gravel roads. Charles H. Moorefield. (U.S.
      Agric. Bul. no. 463) 68p pa 15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Public road mileage and revenues in the central, mountain and
      Pacific states, 1914. (U.S. Agric. Bul. 389) 56p appendix 75p pa
      15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Width of wagon tires recommended for loads of varying magnitudes on
      earth and gravel roads. (U.S. Agric. Circular 72) 6p pa ‘17 Supt.
      of doc.

=Safety-first=

    Safety-first train. John L. Cochrane. (U.S. Interior) 46p ‘17 Supt.
      of doc.

=Sanitation=

    Public and home sanitation. (Iowa. State college of agric. and
      mechanic arts. Home economics Bul. no. 5) 24p pa ‘16 Ames, Ia.

=School children=

    Mental status of rural school children; report of preliminary
      sanitary survey made in New Castle County, Delaware, with a
      description of the tests employed. E. H. Mullan. (U.S. Public
      health service. Reprint no. 377) 30p ‘16 Supt. of doc.

=School gardens.= See Gardening

=School libraries=

    Library and laboratory equipment for classified high schools. W. F.
      Doughty. (Texas. Dept. of educ. Bul. 55) 82p pa ‘16 Austin, Tex.

=School lunches=

    Bibliography of school lunches; comp. by Lucy Condell. (U.S. Agric.
      Circular) 25p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Cold school lunches. Bab Bell. (Univ. of Mo. Agric. Extension
      division service. Circular 10) 7p July ‘16 Columbia, Mo.

    Suggestions for basket lunch and noon meal at home, with recipes for
      school lunches, (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 712) 26p pa 5c Supt. of doc.

=Schools=

    Current practice in city school administration. W. S. Deffenbaugh.
      (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1917, no. 8) 98p pa 15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Handbook for rural school trustees. J. C. Werner. (Idaho. Education
      board. Bul. vol. 3, no. 3) 44p pa ‘17 Boise, Idaho.

    One-room and consolidated country schools of Illinois, 1917.
      (Illinois. Public instruction. Circular no. 124) 112p pa ‘17
      Springfield, Ill.

    Open-air schools. Sherman C. Kingsley and F. B. Dresslar. (U.S.
      Educ. Bul. 1916, no. 23) 283p pa 50c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Practical application of cooking lessons given in the running of a
      regular cafeteria with report of social work in connection with
      continuation school work in Kenosha. Laura E. Hahn. (Wisconsin.
      State board of industrial education. Bul. no. 9) 17p pa ‘14
      Madison, Wis.

    Reorganization of the public school system. Frank Forest Bunker.
      (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1916, no. 8) 186p pa 20c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    School house plans; one room buildings. (Idaho. Education board.
      Bul. vol. 3, no. 2) 5 plans ‘17 Boise, Idaho.

    Use of activities in the elementary school; a report of the first
      annual meeting of the National council of primary education,
      Detroit, Mich., Feb. 22, 1916. (U.S. Educ. Elementary education
      circular no. 1) 14p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Seeds=

    Saving vegetable seeds for the home and market garden. W. W. Tracy,
      Sr. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 884) 16p pa U.S. Agric.

=Sewage=

    Sewage disposal for village and rural homes. C. S. Nichols. (Iowa
      State college of agriculture and mechanical arts. Official Bul.
      vol. 15, no. 9; Engineer experiment station Bul. 41) 31p pa Aug.
      ‘16 Ames, Ia.

    Sewage pollution of streams; its relation to public health. Wade H.
      Frost. (U.S. Public health. Reprint 362) 14p pa 5c ‘16 Supt. of
      doc.

=Sheep=

    Farm sheep raising for beginners. F. M. Marshall and R. B. Millin.
      (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 840) 24p pa ‘17 U.S. Agric.

    Sheep feeding: VII. Fattening western lambs. (Indiana. Purdue univ.
      Dept. of agric. Experiment station. Bul. 202, Vol. 20) Popular ed.
      7p pa ‘17 La Fayette, Ind.

=Sidewalks=

    Concrete sidewalk construction. (Ia. State College. Eng. extension
      dept. Tech. service. Bul. 21) 23p pa ‘17 Ames, Ia.

=Silos=

    How to build the wooden-hoop silo. (Alabama. Polytechnic institute.
      Extension service. Circular 9) 12p pa ‘17 Auburn, Ala.

    Pit silos. T. Pryse Metcalfe and George A. Scott. (U.S. Farmers’
      Bul. 825) 14p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Silos and silage. S. T. Simpson. (Missouri. College of agric.
      Extension service. Circular 32) 8p pa ‘17 Columbia, Mo.

=Smoke-houses=

    Practical small smokehouse for fish; how to construct and operate
      it. (U.S. Fisheries. Economic circular no. 27) 7p pa 5c ‘17 Supt.
      of doc.

=Social agencies=

    Survey of social agencies of Alameda county, California; based on
      1915-1916 reports; prepared by Jean Howard McDuffie. (Alameda
      county. Board of public welfare and Board of supervisors) 56p pa
      ‘17 Oakland, Cal.

=Social surveys=

    Delinquency and density of population. J. Harold Williams. (Cal.
      Whittier state school. Dept. of research. Bul. no. 4) 18p pa ‘17
      Whittier, Cal.

    Scale for grading neighborhood conditions. J. Harold Williams. (Cal.
      Whittier state school. Dept. of research. Bul. no. 5) 17p pa ‘17
      Whittier, Cal.

    Whittier scale for grading home conditions; a preliminary report,
      with some tentative results of its use in grading the homes of
      delinquent and non-delinquent children. J. Harold Williams. (Cal.
      Whittier state school. Dept. of research. Bul. no. 3) 14p pa ‘16
      Whittier, Cal.

=Soils=

    Important soils of the United States. 28p gratis Dec. ‘16 Issued to
      accompany a collection of soils and sub-soils (in 13 boxes) for
      use in schools and colleges teaching agriculture and physical
      geography. Bureau of soils.

=Soldiers=

    Desirability of vocational education and direction of disabled
      soldiers. Elizabeth G. Upham. (Wisconsin. Univ. of Wis. Extension
      Division. Bul. ser. no. 876; Gen. infor. and welfare vocational
      ser. no. 2) 20p pa ‘17 Madison, Wis.

=Soy beans=

    Harvesting soy-beans seed. W. J. Morse. (U.S. Farmers’ Bul. 886) 8p
      pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Tests of soy beans, 1916; note on the plant food in a corn crop. E.
      H. Jenkins, and others. (Connecticut. Agric. Experiment station.
      Bul. 193) 12p pa ‘17 New Haven, Conn.

=State police=

    Report of the special commission on constabulary and state police,
      January, 1917. (Mass. General assembly. House no. 539) 43p pa ‘17
      Wright & Potter Prtg. co. Boston, Mass.

=Street name signs=

    Street-name signs. (Ia. Eng. extension dept. Tech. service. Bul. 20)
      47p pa ‘16 Ames, Ia.

=Sugar=

    Production of sugar in the United States and foreign countries.
      Perry Elliott. (U.S. Agric. Bul. no. 473) 70p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

=Sugar Industry=

    Cane sugar industry; agricultural, manufacturing, and marketing
      costs in Hawaii, Porto Rico, Louisiana, and Cuba. (U.S. Commerce.
      Miscellaneous ser. no. 53) 461p pa 50c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Taxation=

    Property exempt from taxation in the forty-eight states. W. E.
      Hannan. (N.Y. State univ. Bul. 638. Library, Legislation Bul. 42)
      239p pa ‘17 Albany, N.Y.

=Teaching=

    Bulletin for teachers of German. Carl Schlenker. (Univ. of
      Minnesota. Current problems no. 8) 41p 25c Aug. ‘16 Minneapolis,
      Minn.

    This is the third of a series of bulletins on high school subjects,
      each 25c.

    Course of study in geography, history and civics for elementary
      schools with suggestions and directions to teachers. (Indianapolis
      public schools) 252p Sept. ‘14 Indianapolis, Ind.

=Terminals=

    Report on a proposed marine terminal and industrial city on New York
      Bay at Bayonne, N.J., Nov. 1916. (N.J. State bd. of commerce and
      navigation) 114p pa ‘16 Bayonne, N.J.

=Thrift=

    Teaching of thrift; prepared by H. R. Bonner under the direction of
      M. P. Shawkey. (West Virginia. Dept. of free schools) il 54p ‘17
      Charleston, W.Va.

=Tin cans=

    Substitutes for tin cans; how to offset any possible shortage. (U.S.
      Bur. of foreign and domestic commerce) 4p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Torrens system=

    Torrens system of land title registration; containing a definition,
      a brief history, some comparisons and a plea for the proper
      safeguarding of the standards of surveying under the proposed
      Pennsylvania act. (Philadelphia. Dept. of public works) 10p ‘16
      Philadelphia, Pa.

=Traffic signs=

    Use of traffic signs. (Ia. Eng. extension dept. Tech. service Bul.
      17) 12p pa ‘16 Ames, Ia. (Brooklyn public library) 3p pa ‘17
      Brooklyn, N.Y.

=Trees=

    Red spruce; its growth and management. Louis S. Murphy. (U.S. Agric.
      Bul. no. 544) 100p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Shade trees and gardening. (Detroit public library) 10p pa ‘17
      Detroit, Mich.

    A list of books on trees and gardening.

=Trucking=

    Manuring of market garden crops with special reference to the use of
      fertilizers. Frank T. Shutt and B. L. Emslie. (Canada. Dept. of
      agric. Dom. exper. farms. Bul. no. 32—2d ser.) 36p pa ‘17 Ottawa,
      Canada

=United States, Interior, Dept. of=

    General information regarding the Department of the Interior. (U.S.
      Interior) 24p pa gratis ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    United States. Labor statistics, Bureau of

    Monthly review of the United States Bureau of labor statistics.
      (Vol. 4, no. 3) 496p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Includes articles on: Women in industry in Great Britain during the
      war; Extension of employment of women in Great Britain in 1916;
      Employment of women and boys in munition works in Italy; Retail
      prices in the United States, etc.

=United States=

                                    =Army=

    Engineer training manual. ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Pt. 1—Preface, introduction, principles of training. 97p pa 10c

    Pt. 8—Intensive training and mobilization for war. 104p pa 15c

    Appendix no. 4—Carpentry manual. 60p pa 10c

    Appendix no. 5—Masonry manual. 83p pa 10c

    Appendix no. 6—Manual for blacksmiths. 30p pa 10c

    Pt. 3—Engineer training manual: engineer officers’ reserve corps
      optional training. 42p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Appendix no. 2—Instruction for the use of company and regimental
      forms. 224p pa 30c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Appendix no. 3—Instruction for the use of engineer department forms.
      78p pa 20c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Engineer training manual; appendix no. 1, Elements of
      administration. (U.S. Chief of engineers) 77p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

    Home-reading course for citizen-soldiers. (War information ser. no.
      9) 62p pa ‘17 Committee on public information.

    Report on mobilization of the organized militia and national guard
      of the United States, 1916. (U.S. Militia Bur.) 169p pa 15c ‘16
      Supt. of doc.

    Technical equipment of the signal corps; manual no. 3. (U.S. Signal
      office) 554p cl $1 ‘17 Supt. of doc.

                            =Food administration=

    Creation of United States food administration; plans for wheat,
      flour, and bread control; personnel announcements; food, an
      international problem. (U.S. Food Administration. Bul. no. 6) 32p
      pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    [Statement of Hon. Herbert Hoover, director of food control,
      Washington, D.C., before Senate agricultural committee, June 19,
      1917.], and other articles on food control. (U.S. Food
      administration. Bul. 2) 15p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

                                  =Militia=

    Mobilization of the National guard, 1916; its economic and military
      aspects. (Report of the executive committee of the Mayor’s
      committee on national defence) 35p pa ‘17 New York, N.Y.

                                    =Navy=

    Bluejackets manual; revised November 1916 by Lieutenant Norman R.
      Van der Veer. (U.S. Navigation bur. (Navy)) 821p cl ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

    Diving manual, July, 1916. (U.S. Navy) 122p cl 75c ‘16 Supt. of doc.

    Handy book for hospital corps, Navy, 1917; revised by J. B. Kaufman.
      (U.S. Medicine and surgery bur.) 386p cl 50c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Naval militia cruises, 1916; reports by officers of the United
      States navy. (U.S. Division of naval militia affairs) 170p pa 15c
      ‘17 Supt. of doc.

                                 =Statistics=

    Statistical abstract of the United States, 1916. (U.S. Commerce)
      773p pa ‘17 50c Supt. of doc.

=Vegetables=

    Experiments in keeping asparagus after cutting. F. W. Morse. (Mass.
      Agric. Experiment station. Bul. 172) 307p pa ‘17 Amherst, Mass.

    Harvesting and storing vegetables for home use. J. J. Gardner.
      (Colorado. Experiment station. Bul. 232) 7p pa Fort Collins. Col.

    Potato and tomato diseases. N. J. Giddings. (West Virginia. Agric.
      Experiment station. Bul. 165) 24p pa ‘17 Morgantown, W.Va.

    Storage of vegetables; prepared under the direction of C. G.
      Woodbury, F. C. Gaylord. (Indiana. Purdue univ. Dept. of agric.
      Extension Bul. no. 58) 8p pa ‘17 La Fayette, Ind.

    Storing vegetables. A. L. Dacy. (West Virginia. College of agric.
      Extension dept. Circular 153) 4p pa ‘17 Morgantown, W.Va.

=Vinegar=

    Vinegar from waste fruits. W. V. Cruess. (California. Univ. agric.
      Experiment station. Bul. 287) 184p pa ‘17 Berkeley, Cal.

=Vital statistics=

    Enforcement of registration of births and deaths in metropolitan
      areas; history, methods, results and checks. William H. Guilfoy.
      (New York [city] Dept. of health. Reprint ser. no. 61) 7p pa ‘17
      New York, N.Y.

=Vocational diseases=

    Studies in vocational diseases; the effect of gas heated appliances
      upon the air of workshops. Charles Weisman. (U.S. Public health.
      Bul. no. 81) 83p pa 15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Vocational education=

    Demand for vocational education in the countries at war. Anna Tolman
      Smith. (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1917, No. 36) 16p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Department-store education; an account of the training methods
      developed at the Boston school of salesmanship under the direction
      of Lucinda Wyman Prince. Helen Rich Norton. (U.S. Educ. Bul. 1917,
      no. 9) 79p pa 15c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Some exercises in farm handicraft for rural schools. H. O. Sampson.
      (U.S. Agric. Bul. no. 527) 38p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Vocational education survey of Minneapolis, Minn., made by the
      National society for the promotion of industrial education. (U.S.
      Labor statistics, no. 199) 592p pa 65c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Reprints from the report of the Minneapolis survey (see previous
      entry) for Vocational education. (Minneapolis Bd. of educ.,
      Occupational ser. Bul.) ‘16 Minneapolis, Minn.

                                   =Baking=

    Kneading the dough; what vocational education is needed for the
      baking business? (Bul. no. 7) 347p pa

                         =Dressmaking and millinery=

    Hats, gowns and wraps; what vocational education is needed for
      dressmaking and millinery? (Bul. no. 10) 434p pa

                               =Garment trade=

    Ready to wear; what vocational education is needed for the garment
      trade? (Bul. no. 9) 406p pa

                                  =Industry=

    In perfect taste; what vocational education is needed in industry?
      (Bul. no. 13) 560p pa

    Relates especially to arts and crafts.

                               =Knitting mill=

    Thousand needles; what vocational education is needed for the
      knitting mill? (Bul. no. 11) 463p pa

                                 =Laundries=

    Modern washtub; what vocational education is needed for the
      laundries? (Bul. no. 8) 375p pa

                                =Metal trade=

    Men of metal; what vocational education is needed for the metal
      trades? (Bul. no. 3) 276p pa

                           =Public evening schools=

    Chance for promotion; the public evening school. (Bul. no. 17) 96p
      pa

                                =Salesmanship=

    Over the counter; what vocational education is needed for
      salesmanship in the department stores? (Bul. no. 12) 515p pa.

=Vocational guidance=

    Vocational guidance bibliography prepared for school and public
      libraries and arranged especially for youths, teachers and
      specialists; comp. for the Comm. of industrial and vocational
      educ. (California State bd. of educ. Bul. no. 12) 24p pa ‘16
      Sacramento, Cal.

=War=

    Great war; from spectator to participant. Andrew C. McLaughlin.
      (U.S. Committee on public information) 16p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

                                    =Aids=

    Book helps for munition workers. (Brooklyn public library) 11p pa
      ‘17 Brooklyn, N.Y.

    Doing your bit at home; some library books that will help you.
      (Brooklyn public library) 23p pa ‘17 Brooklyn, N.Y.

    National defense; a select list of books. (Brooklyn public library)
      27p pa ‘17 Brooklyn, N.Y.

    Ship-builder’s library; books on naval design and construction (to
      be found in the Brooklyn public library) 3p pa ‘17 Brooklyn, N.Y.

                              =Cost accounting=

    Uniform contracts and cost accounting definitions and methods;
      recommendations by interdepartmental conference consisting of
      delegates from the departments of war, navy, and commerce, the
      Federal trade commission and the Council of national defense. 45p
      pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

                                 =Education=

    Educational program for the war. (Missouri. Kirksville normal
      school. The rural school messenger, Sept. 1917. Vol. 7, no. 1) 39p
      pa ‘17 Kirksville, Mo.

                               =United States=

    American loyalty by citizens of German descent. (U.S. Committee on
      Public information. War information. Ser. no. 6) 24p pa ‘17 Supt.
      of doc.

    Commission on training camp activities. (U.S. War) 29p pa ‘17 The
      Commission, Room 149, Old Land Office Bldg., Washington, D.C.

    First session of the War Congress. Charles Merz. (U.S. Committee on
      public information. War information. Ser. no. 10) 48p pa ‘17 Supt.
      of doc.

    Nation in arms. Franklin K. Lane and Newton D. Baker. (U.S.
      Committee on public information) 13p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    United States at war; organisations and literature; comp. under the
      direction of Herman H. B. Meyer, with cooperation of members of
      the Library staff. (Library of Congress) 115p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of
      doc.

    War message and facts behind it; annotated text of President
      Wilson’s message, April 2, 1917. (U.S. Committee on public
      information. War information. Ser. no. 1) 28p pa ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Welfare=

    Community music and drama. (Wis. univ. Bul. gen. ser. 638) 27p pa
      ‘17 Madison, Wis. Bibliography.

    Community welfare programs; for women’s clubs and parent-teacher
      associations. (Indiana univ. Bul. of Extension division, vol. 1,
      no. 10) 12p June ‘16 Bloomington, Ind.

    Hours, fatigue, and health in British munition factories; reprints
      of the memoranda of the British health of munition workers
      committee. (U.S. Labor statistics. Bul. no. 221) 147p pa 15c ‘17
      Supt. of doc.

    Industrial efficiency and fatigue in British munition factories;
      reprints of interim report and memoranda of the British health of
      munition workers committee. (U.S. Labor statistics. Bul. no. 30)
      203p pa 20c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

    Welfare work in British munition factories. (U.S. Labor statistics
      Bur. Bul. 222) 66p pa 10c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Wilson, Woodrow, 1856-=

    Address of the President of the United States delivered at a joint
      session of the two houses of Congress, Dec. 5, 1916. 7p pa 5c ‘16
      Supt. of doc.

    President’s address; delivered to the Senate of the United States,
      January 22, 1917. 8p pa 5c ‘17 Supt. of doc.

=Women in trades=

    Dressmaking as a trade for women in Massachusetts. May Allinson.
      (U.S. Labor statistics. Bul. no. 193) 180p pa 20c ‘16 Supt. of
      doc.

=Workmen’s compensation=

    Workmen’s compensation laws of the United States and foreign
      countries. (U.S. Labor statistics. Bul. no. 203) 961p pa 75c ‘17
      Supt. of doc.

The Senate and House documents and reports are issued in limited
editions, and unless otherwise indicated may be obtained only through
members of Congress. Librarians should make application to their own
representatives in Washington.

The Department of Agriculture’s supply of the current numbers of
Farmers’ Bulletins is ordinarily sufficient to make it possible to send
them free to all applicants. They are also for sale at 5 cents per copy
[by the Superintendent of Documents].

The Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C., is authorized to
sell at cost of paper and printing any United States public document in
his charge, the distribution of which is not otherwise provided for.
Publications cannot be supplied free to individuals nor forwarded in
advance of payment.




          Quarterly List of New Technical and Industrial Books


   Chosen and annotated for general libraries by the Applied Science
  Reference Department, Pratt Institute Free Library, Brooklyn, N. Y.

 Nos. 2-5                                                 FEBRUARY, 1918


=Drawing and design for craftsmen.= R. S. Bowers. McKay. 407p. $2.00.
(The handcraft series.)

  A comprehensive book in which the learner is gradually taken through
  the elements of drawing to more advanced work, the whole tendency
  being towards the applications of art to decoration and industrial
  design.

  The book would be suitable for self instruction, would also offer
  suggestions to teachers of drawing and design.


=Furniture making=; designs, working drawings, and complete
details of 170 pieces of furniture, with practical information on
their construction. R. S. Bowers, John Bovington, and other
designer-craftsmen; with 1,082 illustrations. McKay. 407p. $2.00.
(The handicraft series.)

  A book for the amateur craftsman who has already mastered the
  elementary operations of woodworking. Describes and illustrates in
  detail many pieces of furniture, with drawings, dimensions, and
  directions for preparing large working drawings. Presupposes a good
  amateur knowledge of cabinet work.


=Electrical equipment=: its selection and arrangement with special
reference to factories, shops and industrial plants. H. W. Brown.
McGraw. 220p. $2.00 net.

  The general employment of electricity for power and lighting purposes
  in industrial establishments creates a need for specific data on the
  characteristics, connections, costs, etc., of electric machinery and
  appliances, the most suitable systems for particular cases, and other
  related matters heretofore scattered in books and periodicals and not
  readily to be found.

  In this book the author presents these data which he has worked out or
  compiled for his classes of non-electrical engineering students who
  required a short course in electrical engineering rendered necessary
  by the conditions of modern factory and shop practice.

  The book is valuable as a text-book or as a reference for engineers
  planning or operating electrical equipment in industrial plants,
  although in some cases collateral references will be necessary for
  greater detail.

  Author is connected with the engineering department of Cornell
  University.

  Another good recent book: Clewell’s “Machine shop electricity,”
  McGraw, 1916, $3.00 net, treats in much detail of electrical
  installations in machine shops for lighting, power, communication,
  heating, etc.


=Home crafts of today and yesterday.= Florence Buchanan. Harper. 170p.
$1.00 (Harper’s home economics.)

  A book about many of the things which a woman could do at home and
  would like to know how to do; arrangement of the sewing-room; buying
  household linens; making, marking and mending linens; macramé; caning
  chairs; basketry; dyeing; rug making; weaving; decorating with brush
  and paint, etc.

  Author is instructor in handwork, Pratt Institute.


=Practical wireless telegraphy=; a complete text-book for students of
radio communication. E. E. Bucher. Wireless Press. 322p. $1.50.

  Text-book used in the instruction classes of the Marconi Wireless
  Telegraph Company of America.

  Treats generally of the principles of electricity, of electrical
  generators, motors and storage batteries, and describes the
  construction and operation of the apparatus employed in wireless
  telegraphy, the standard Marconi sets being explained and illustrated
  in detail. The book is fully illustrated with half-tones and diagrams,
  including many wiring diagrams, and is provided with examination
  questions.

  Author is instructing engineer, Marconi Wireless Telegraph Company of
  America.


=Practical motor boat handling, seamanship and piloting=; a handbook
containing information which every motor boatman should know; especially
prepared for the man who takes pride in handling his own boat and
getting the greatest enjoyment out of cruising; adapted for the
yachtsman interested in fitting himself to be of service to his
government in time of war. C. F. Chapman. Motor Boating. 144p. $1.00.

  Useful information about handling and navigating motor boats: laws and
  regulations, compass errors, nautical instruments, signals, etc. The
  book is not concerned with motor boat engines or their operation.

  Author is editor of _Motor Boating_.


=Treatise on milling and milling machines.= Cincinnati milling machine
company. 409p. $1.50 net.

  Trade publication, but one of best books on the subject. Describes
  milling machines and the methods of performing the many operations in
  which these machine tools are employed, with simple explanations of
  the mathematics necessary for the various calculations, and many
  illustrations.

  Reference libraries may be able to obtain copies gratis.


=Arithmetic for engineers.= C. B. Clapham. Lond., Chapman, and N. Y.,
Dutton. 5s 6d net. American price, $3.00 net. (The directly-useful
technical series.)

  Elementary mathematics for the man with little previous training.
  Includes arithmetic, algebra, logarithms, mensuration, and use of the
  slide rule with engineering applications by means of practical
  problems and illustrations. A good book of the elementary type.

  Author is lecturer in engineering and elementary mathematics,
  University of London.


=Home handy book=; a compendium of useful things to do around the house
and how to keep it in order. A. F. Collins. Appleton. 165p. $1.10.

  Tells the amateur how to perform odd jobs; repairing locks, electric
  bell circuits, plumbing, furniture repairing, paper-hanging, etc.
  Illustrated.


=Inventing for boys.= A. F. Collins. Stokes. $1.35 net.

  Tells in a simple manner how to experiment with machinery,
  electricity, etc., how to make models, how to obtain a patent, and
  about patent office procedure, things to invent, etc. The technical
  terms used in the book are explained.


=Interior wiring and systems for electric light and power service=; a
manual for electric workers, constructors, architects and schools. A. L.
Cook. Wiley. 425p. $2.00 net.

  Valuable to electrical workers occupied with installing electric light
  and power in industrial works, office buildings, or dwellings; to
  contractors and architects concerned with planning and calculating
  light and power systems and as a reference for engineering students.

  Part 1. Electric light systems; the various kinds of lamps, and their
  accessories; systems best suited to particular purposes; methods of
  calculating illumination with illustrative examples.

  Part 2. Electric power systems; types of motors and their performance;
  selection of motors for industrial purposes, their starting devices,
  controllers, etc.

  Part 3. Detailed methods of calculating interior wiring for light and
  power with examples worked out for all the usual systems; plans and
  diagrams of wiring systems which have been actually installed in
  buildings.

  Pocket-size, flexible binding.

  Author is head of department of applied electricity, Pratt Institute.


=Electrical machinery=; principles, operation and management. Terrell
Croft. McGraw. 318p. $2.00.

  An attempt to convey to the average electrical worker a knowledge of
  the principles, construction, characteristics, management, and
  operation of electric generators and motors. Particular attention is
  given to the installation and operation of electrical machinery and
  the location and correction of troubles. The treatment is plain,
  without difficult mathematics.

  The same author’s “American electricians’ handbook,” McGraw, 1913,
  $3.00, is one of the most useful reference books for practical
  electrical workers.


=Practical electric illumination.= Terrell Croft. McGraw. $2.00.

  Treats in a plain manner, as little technical as possible, of the
  principles of illumination, of reflectors and electric lamps, and of
  their practical applications in interior and exterior lighting.


=Practical electricity.= Terrell Croft. McGraw. 646p. $2.50.

  A simplified presentation of the elements of theory and practice of
  electric and magnetic phenomena, addressed to the reader with little
  technical or mathematical preparation. One of the best books of its
  class. Suitable for home study or as an elementary text-book. Fully
  illustrated.


=Wiring for light and power=; a detailed and fully illustrated
commentary on the more important portions of the National Electric Code.
Terrell Croft. McGraw. 426p. $2.00.

  A book for electrical workers concerned with the installation of
  electric wiring and apparatus for any purpose.

  The “National electric code” which this book explains and illustrates,
  is a set of rules prepared by the National Board of Fire Underwriters
  for the purpose of insuring safe electrical installation. The aim of
  the author of the present book is to make plain just how the work
  should be performed to meet the requirements of the “Code.” The “Code”
  itself may be had gratis from the National Board of Fire Underwriters,
  76 William St., New York City.


=Drawing for builders.= R. B. Dale. Wiley. 166p. $1.50 net. (Wiley
technical series for vocational and industrial schools.)

  Primarily a school text book, but would be suitable for home study by
  apprentices or carpenters who lack a knowledge of drawing.

  The same author’s “Arithmetic for carpenters and builders” is an
  excellent book for the same type of reader.

  Author is in charge of the engineering extension work of the Iowa
  State College.


=Practical marine engineering for marine engineers and students=; with
aids for applicants for marine engineers’ license. W. F. Durand. 4th ed.
rev. and enl. by C. W. Dyson. Marine Engineering. 982p. $6.00.

  Excellent book for the engineer or novice who may be preparing for
  examination for a marine engineer’s license. The treatment is as plain
  and non-mathematical as possible. Examination questions accompany each
  chapter, and a section is devoted to computations for engineers, with
  worked-out examples and problems with answers.

  The greatly increased interest in marine engineering renders this new
  edition of the best American practical book on the subject
  particularly timely.


=Farm concrete.= K. J. T. Elkblaw. Macmillan. 295p. $1.60.

  Indicates in a practical manner what is good practice in preparing,
  testing, and applying concrete to its many uses in farm structures:
  foundations and cellars, pavements, floors, sidewalks, steps, building
  blocks, fence posts, tanks, troughs, cisterns, silos, residences, etc.

  Addressed to farmers, students of agriculture, and concrete
  contractors.


=Learning to fly in the U.S. Army=; a manual of aviation practice. E. N.
Fales. McGraw. 180p. $1.50.

  Elementary text-book, without mathematics, for non-technically trained
  men who may be called into the aviation service of the army. Describes
  the types of military airplanes, principles of flight, flying the
  airplane, cross-country flying, rigging of airplanes, materials of
  construction, erecting, handling and inspecting airplanes.

  Author occupies the chair of aeronautics, University of Illinois.


=Army and navy information=; uniforms, organization, arms and equipment
of the warring powers. D. C. Falls. Dutton. 191p. $1.00.

  Convenient reference book answering questions concerning organization,
  draft, uniforms, equipment, insignia, pay, and other matters of
  interest relating to the United States Army and Navy, also less
  detailed information concerning the forces of other nations engaged in
  the present war.

  Illustrated with six plates in color and many line drawings.


=Retail buying=; modern principles and practice. C. C. Field. 220p.
$1.25. (Harper’s retail business, series.)

  Valuable information and advice for those whose business it is to buy
  stocks of merchandise to be sold at retail in large or average shops.
  Presents the best present-day methods as practiced in representative
  American retailing houses. Instructive reading for any one connected
  with retail buying or selling.

  Author writes from experience as buyer for large department stores and
  as instructor in merchandising, University of Wisconsin.


=Practical road building.= C. E. Foote. McKay. 295p. $1.25.

  Plainly stated information about the laying-out, financing and
  building of all types of country highway roads. Valuable to road
  officials, engineers, and lay readers interested in the building of
  good roads.

  The book has the endorsement of the National Highways Association and
  the American Automobile Association.


=Junior Plattsburg manual.= E. B. Garey and O. O. Ellis. Century. 299p.
$1.50.

  Elementary manual of military drill, physical training, marching and
  camping, first aid to the wounded, signals and codes, etc.; suitable
  for use in schools. Fully illustrated.

  Both authors are captains in the United States Army.


=Elements of refrigeration=; a text-book for students, engineers, and
warehousemen. A. M. Greene, Jr. Wiley. 472p. $4.00.

  Treats of the design, construction and operation of refrigeration
  apparatus and of its applications in ice making, cold storage,
  breweries, dairies, rinks, auditoriums, etc. Considers the subject
  from its theoretical and practical sides.

  Author is professor of mechanical engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic
  Institute.

  Another good book, less theoretical and mathematical, is Cosgrove’s
  Sanitary refrigeration and ice making, published by the Standard
  Sanitary Mfg. Co., 1914. $3.50.


=Carpentry.= I. S. Griffiths. Manual Arts Press. 188p. $1.00 net.

  Good elementary book on wooden house building for carpentry
  apprentices and as a text-book for trade and vocational schools. Well
  illustrated with line drawings and half tones. Added chapters contain
  data on estimating and miscellaneous information relating to the
  trade.

  Author is an experienced carpenter and is chairman of the Manual Arts
  department, University of Missouri. He has written several excellent
  elementary books on woodworking, which are recommended.


=Handicrafts for the handicapped.= H. J. Hall and M. M. C. Buck. Moffat.
170p. $1.25 net.

  Describes manual work which partially disabled persons may learn to
  perform. The operations include: basketry, chair seating, netting,
  hand-loom weaving, bookbinding, cement working, pottery making, and
  light blacksmithing.

  Suggestive book for teachers as well as for the workers themselves.

  A portion of the matter appeared originally in the _Craftsman_.


=Secrets of the submarine.= M. F. Hay. Dodd. 229p. $1.25.

  Plain, non-technical presentation of facts concerning the design,
  construction, machinery, armament, projectiles, safety devices and
  operation of submarine warships and of their value as fighting
  machines.

  Authentic, up-to-date information from a writer who for seventeen
  years has been occupied with the design and construction of submarine
  ships.


=Everyman’s chemistry=; the chemist’s point of view and his recent work
told for the layman. Ellwood Hendrick. Harper. 374p. $2.00. (Harper’s
modern science series.)

  Entertainingly written book which explains in an interesting, often
  amusing manner, a good deal about general chemistry and the
  applications of chemistry in the industries.

  A good book for the layman who is interested in knowing something of
  the part in the world’s work which the chemist of to-day is
  performing.


=Printing=; a text-book for printers’ apprentices, continuation classes,
and for general use in schools. F. S. Henry. Wiley. 318p. $1.25. (Wiley
technical series.)

  Good elementary text-book covering the various processes involved in
  the art of printing from type. The book would also interest many
  practical printers.

  Author is instructor in printing at Philadelphia Trades School.


=The submarine torpedo boat=: its characteristics and modern
developments. Allen Hoar. Van Nostrand. 225p. $2.00 net.

  A reliable, readable, well-illustrated book on the submarine.
  Discusses all types of submarine boats; their design, construction and
  operation, and considers their future possibilities.


=Navigation.= Harold Jacoby. Macmillan. 330p. $2.25.

  A concisely written book for the beginner in the study of navigation,
  designed to be comprehensive enough to teach the student how to
  navigate a ship. The necessary tables are included. Suitable for home
  study.

  Author is professor of astronomy, Columbia University.


=Text-book of land drainage.= J. A. Jeffery. Macmillan. $1.25 net.
(Rural text-book series.)

  Primarily a text-book for agricultural schools, but the author states
  that he also prepared the book with special regard to the requirements
  of the practical farmer.


=Departmental store merchandise manuals=; edited by B. E. Kennard,
director of department store courses, New York University, and chairman
of Committee on merchandise courses for New York city public schools.
Ronald. $1.25 each.

  A series of books for retail salespeople in department stores, each
  department being considered separately. The object of the author is to
  give in a plain, simple manner authoritative information concerning
  the sources of raw materials, methods of manufacture, qualities, and
  other details of the goods which are to be sold. The following volumes
  have appeared:

  Jewelry department. B. E. Kennard.

  Cotton and linen department. E. B. Thompson.

  Notions department. M. A. Souder.

  Leather goods department. M. A. Lehmann.

  Stationery department. M. A. Lehmann.

  The books average about 160 pages.


=Book of the machine gun.= F. V. Longstaff and A. H. Atteridge. Rees.
337p. 8s. 6d. (Dodd. $2.50.)

  Describes and illustrates in detail all types of machine guns.

  Senior author is major in the British Army.


=Paper; its history, sources, and manufacture.= H. A. Maddox. Pitman.
159p. 85c. (Pitman’s common commodities of commerce.)

  Brief, semi-technical treatise which would be instructive to the
  general reader interested in knowing how paper is made.


=The Ford car and truck and tractor attachments=; their construction,
care and operation. H. P. Manly. Drake. 256p. $1.00.

  Pocket-size book with plainly stated information about the engine,
  transmission system, control, driving, repairing, lighting, and
  starting of the Ford automobile, with a chapter on the attachments
  employed in adapting it for truck and tractor service.


=A short account of explosives.= Arthur Marshall. Blakiston. 96p. $1.50.

  Brief authoritative account of the manufacture, properties, uses, and
  handling of explosives. A chapter on fireworks is included. Useful
  book for those concerned with the making or handling of explosives,
  and not too technical for the general reader.

  The same author’s “Explosives; their manufacture, properties, tests,
  and history” (2d ed., 2v., Blakiston, 1917, $16.00) is the best recent
  book in English on the subject, but is for the chemist and
  manufacturer.


=Wheat and its products=: a brief account of the cereal, where it is
grown, and the modern method of producing wheaten flour. Andrew Millar.
Pitman. 134p. 85c. (Pitman’s common commodities of commerce.)

  For the general reader. Tells briefly of the sources of the wheat
  supply, the storage and handling of wheat, and the making of flour.


=The eyes of the Army and Navy=; practical aviation. A. H. Munday.
Harper. 227p. $1.50.

  Brief, practical, instruction book for beginners in aviation; based on
  the author’s experience.

  Author is flight lieutenant, Royal British Navy.


=Machinery’s encyclopedia=; a work of reference covering practical
mathematics and mechanics, machine design, machine construction and
operation, electrical, gas, hydraulic, and steam power machinery,
metallurgy, and kindred subjects in the engineering field. Erik Oberg
and F. D. Jones, eds. 7 vols. 3558p. Size 11x8 in. Industrial Press.
Subscription price, $36.00.

  Important reference work giving authoritative information on a wide
  range of subjects in the mechanical engineering field. Over seventy
  collaborators have contributed signed articles, which are well
  illustrated, mostly with line drawings. The matter is arranged in an
  alphabetical order, and for greater convenience a good topical index
  to all the matter is provided.

  The work is worth consideration by libraries in communities where many
  machine-shop mechanicians, power plant engineers, foundrymen, etc.,
  are employed.


=Aviation engines=; design construction, operation and repair; a
complete, practical treatise outlining clearly the elements of internal
combustion engineering with special reference to the design,
construction, operation, and repair of airplane power plants; also the
auxiliary engine systems, such as lubrication, carburetion, ignition and
cooling. It includes complete instructions for engine repairing and
systematic location of troubles, tool equipment and use of tools, also
outlines the latest mechanical processes. V. W. Pagé. Henley. 589p.
$3.00.

  An instruction book for men entering the Army aviation service, for
  mechanicians engaged in aviation engine repair work, and for students
  of aviation.

  The treatment is plain and practical with little theory and
  mathematics. A small amount of matter was suppressed by Government
  censorship.

  Author is lieutenant in aviation service and assistant engineering
  officer, Signal Corps Aviation School, Mineola. He has written several
  good books on the automobile.


=How to run an automobile=: a concise, practical treatise written in
simple language explaining the functions of modern gasoline automobile
parts with complete instructions for driving and care. V. W. Pagé.
Henley. $1.00.

  Contains plain directions for running and caring for an automobile,
  rules of the road, and other things necessary for the automobile
  operator to know.


=Storage batteries simplified=: operating principles, care and
industrial applications; a complete, non-technical but authoritative
treatise discussing the development of the modern storage battery,
outlining the basic operation of the leading types, also the methods of
construction, charging, maintenance and repair. V. W. Pagé. Henley.
208p. $1.50.

  A plainly written book understandable by the average reader. Describes
  and illustrates the applications of storage batteries to automobile
  ignition, starting and lighting, motor boat and submarine boat
  engineering and other purposes.


=Office organization and management.= C. C. Parsons. La Salle Extension
University. 313p. $2.50.

  One of a good series of correspondence school text-books. Considers
  all factors entering into office organization and management, with
  special emphasis on the human element. Chapters are devoted to office
  lay-out, selection and training of employees, rules and regulations,
  discipline, promotions, encouragement of savings, pension systems,
  discipline, welfare work, mechanical equipment of offices, records,
  mailing department, etc. Test questions accompany each of the 29
  chapters and many blank forms are provided.

  Author writes from personal business experience and as lecturer in
  business administration, University of Michigan.


=A German-English dictionary for chemists.= A. M. Patterson. Wiley.
316p. $2.00.

  The scope of the book is broader than the title would seem to
  indicate. It gives English meanings, not only of German words
  occurring in the literature of general and industrial chemistry, but
  includes words used in scientific and technical literature generally,
  as well as a good general German vocabulary. Very useful to anyone who
  has occasion to read German scientific or technical books and
  periodicals.


=Seat weaving.= L. D. Perry. Manual Arts Press. 84p. $1.00.

  An elementary book, very fully illustrated, which shows in detail the
  processes of weaving cane, rush, reed or splint seats for chairs and
  stools. Primarily a text-book for manual training classes, but would
  also be a satisfactory guide to amateurs interested in this kind of
  work.

  Author is supervisor of manual training, Joliet, Illinois.


=Introduction to the theory and practice of boot and shoe manufacture.=
Frank Plucknett. Longmans. 336p. $2.00 net. (Longmans’ technical
handicraft series.)

  Primarily a text-book for technical schools, but might be read with
  profit by all engaged in the manufacture or selling of boots and
  shoes. Describes hand and machine processes and their underlying
  principles, considering the whole subject from the anatomy of the foot
  to the finished shoe, with much useful information concerning leather.

  The book is a valuable addition to the meager literature on this
  subject.

  Author is assistant master, Cordwainers’ Technical College, London.


=Equipment for the farm and farmstead.= H. C. Ramsower. Ginn. 523p.
$2.70. (Country life education series.)

  Text-book for agricultural schools, or useful reference for the
  practising farmer. Discusses the layout of farms, fences, farm
  buildings, lighting, water supply, sewage disposal, farm implements
  and machinery, windmills, water power, and other matters relating to
  the equipment necessary to carry on present-day farming operations.

  Author is professor of agricultural engineering in the College of
  Agriculture of the Ohio State University.


=Elements of industrial chemistry.= Allen Rogers and others. Van
Nostrand. 513p. $3.00 net.

  An elementary text-book which describes the manufacture and
  preparation of many products of industrial chemistry. The matter is
  descriptive and not detailed enough to be of value to the works
  chemist, but would be understandable to the average reader interested
  in the subject.

  The book is an abridgment of “Industrial chemistry, a manual for
  students and manufacturers,” 2d. ed., Van Nostrand, 1915, $5.00 net,
  which book describes processes of manufacture in considerable detail,
  but would be too technical except for chemists.

  Dr Rogers is in charge of industrial chemistry, Pratt Institute,
  Brooklyn.


=Problems of the finishing room=: a reference and formula manual for
furniture finishers, woodworkers, builders, interior decorators, manual
training departments, etc. W. K. Schmidt. Periodical pub. co., Grand
Rapids, Mich. 453p. $5.00 net.

  Authoritative manual for those employed in the finishing of woods by
  means of fuming, staining, varnishing, enameling, lacquering, etc.
  Treats of the preparation of the woods and describes in detail the
  processes required for the various kinds of finish.

  Directions are given for the selection, preparation and testing of the
  stains, oils, varnishes, glues and other materials used in wood
  finishing, and miscellaneous information relating to the work.

  In the formula section blank leaves are inserted for entering new
  formulas.

  The author writes from large experience as chemist and finishing
  expert.


=American boys’ book of electricity.= C. H. Seaver. McKay. 365p. $1.50
net.

  Interesting book for boys, giving simple explanations of electrical
  phenomena with illustrative experiments and information about
  batteries, electro magnets, telegraph and telephone, wireless
  communication, house wiring, electrical equipment of gasoline engines,
  etc. Good illustrations.

  House wiring, in a boys’ book, might better have been omitted, owing
  to fire insurance regulations, but a word of warning is given at the
  end of the chapter.


=The application of efficiency principles.= G. H. Shepard. Engineering
Magazine Co. 368p. $3.00.

  An attempt to show how to apply efficient methods of management in
  industrial works; Harrington Emerson’s “Twelve principles of
  efficiency” being adopted as a basis. This is one of the few books on
  efficiency which treat of its practical applications.


=Masters of space=; Morse and the telegraph, Thompson and the cable,
Bell and the telephone, Marconi and the wireless telegraph, Carty and
the wireless telephone. W. K. Towers. Harper. 301p. $1.25.

  Readable, interesting account of the discovery and development of the
  various means of long-distance communication.

  Contains preliminary chapters on communication among the ancients,
  signaling, and early investigations in long-distance communication.

  Good book for readers of high school age.


=Aircraft of to-day=; a popular account of the conquest of the air. C.
C. Turner. Seeley. 315p. $1.75.

  Popular, non-technical book on the navigation of the air and of the
  mechanical devices which have been and are now employed for the
  purpose. Tells of the history and development of aviation, of the
  atmosphere, principles of mechanical flight, airship theory,
  sensations during flight, use of aircraft in war, battles in the air,
  etc. An appendix contains aviation world records, vocabulary of
  aeronautical terms, French technical terms, tables, and a
  bibliography. Illustrated.

  Author is a lieutenant in British service, and has written other books
  on aeronautics.


=Handbook on care and operation of gasoline engines=, prepared under
direction of the captain commandant, U.S. Coast Guard. Washington,
Government Printing Office. 92p. Paper, 10c.

  A 92-page pamphlet prepared for the U.S. Coast Guard, but useful to
  anyone needing a very elementary book on gasoline engines. Written in
  the plainest manner possible for readers without technical training.
  Libraries may possibly obtain a gratis copy by applying direct to the
  Treasury Department, Washington, D. C.


=Technical equipment of the signal corps.= 1916. (Manual No. 3.) U.S.
Signal Office, Washington. Government Printing Office. 554p. $1.00.

  Contains much plainly stated information about primary and secondary
  batteries, electric cables and cable systems, telegraphy and
  telephony, overhead line construction, underground and submarine
  cables, telegraph and telephone instruments and switchboards, wiring
  diagrams, testing, etc.

  Prepared for the U.S. Signal Corps, the book is also valuable to
  anyone interested in telegraph and telephone installation and
  operation.

  Libraries may possibly obtain a gratis copy by applying direct to the
  War Department, Washington, D. C.


=Building estimator’s reference book=; a practical and thoroughly
reliable reference book for constructors and estimators engaged in
estimating the cost and constructing all classes of modern buildings,
giving the actual labor costs and methods employed in some of our
present-day structures, together with all necessary material prices and
labor quantities entering into the cost of all classes of buildings. F.
R. Walker. 2d ed. 3535p. Author. $5.00.

  Gives laborers’ time, quantities and costs of materials, and other
  data useful in estimating the cost of building operations. Based on
  work which has actually been performed. Every stage of the work is
  separately considered.

  The book is well up-to-date, but in the nature of things will be
  liable to frequent revisions.


=The avoidance of fires.= A. D. Weeks. Heath. 128p. 60c net.

  School text-book. Considers the causes of fires in buildings, the
  damage which may be caused thereby, how to put out fires, fire drills,
  etc. Illustrated. Bibliography.

  Author is professor of education, North Dakota Agricultural College.


=Sanitation practically applied.= H. B. Wood. Wiley. 473p. $3.00.

  Deals with the practical side of public health work: school, home,
  factory and community sanitation, milk supply, sewage disposal,
  control of disease, destruction of insects which transmit disease,
  child welfare, etc. Valuable to public health officials and others
  interested in practical means of sanitation.

  Author is assistant commissioner, West Virginia State Department of
  Health.




                   Subject, Title and Pseudonym Index
             To Author Entries, March, 1917—February, 1918


 =A. E.=, pseud. See Russell, G: W:

 Abandoned room. Camp, C: W. (D ‘17)

 =Abd al-Hamid II, dethroned sultan of the Turks=, 1842-
   Pears, Sir E. Life of Abdul Hamid. (Ja ‘18)

 =Ability tests=
   Bronner, A. F. Psychology of special abilities and disabilities. (My
      ‘17)
   Melville, N. J: Standard method of testing juvenile mentality by the
      Binet-Simon scale. (Jl ‘17)
   Monroe, W. S., and others. Educational tests and measurements. (Ja
      ‘18)
   Pintner, R., and Paterson, D. G. Scale of performance tests. (D ‘17)

 Abington abbey. Marshall, A. (N ‘17)

 Above Cayuga’s waters. Cornell Era. (Mr ‘17)

 =Accidents, Industrial=
   Blanchard, R. H. Liability and compensation insurance. (D ‘17)

 =Accounting=
   Bennett, R. J. Corporation accounting. (S ‘17)
   Gilman, S. Principles of accounting. (My ‘17)
   Webner, F. E. Factory accounting. (S ‘17)

 Acres of diamonds. In Burr, A. R. Russell H. Conwell. (Mr ‘17)

 Across Asia Minor on foot. Childs, W. J. (My ‘17)

 Across France in war time. Wray, W. F. (D ‘17)

 =Acting=
   Fiske, M. M. Mrs Fiske. (D ‘17)

 =Acton, John Emerich Edward Dalberg Acton, 1st baron=, 1834-1902
   Acton, J: E. E: D. A., 1st baron. Selections from the correspondence
      of the first Lord Acton. (F ‘18)

 =Adam, Juliette (Lamber) (Mme Edmond Adam)=, 1836-
   Stephens, W. Mme Adam. (O ‘17)

 =Adams, Mrs Abigail (Smith)= 1744-1818
   Richards, L. E. Abigail Adams and her times. (F ‘18)

 =Adaptation (biology)=
   Haldane, J: S. Organism and environment as illustrated by the
      physiology of breathing. (O ‘17)

 =Adirondack mountains=
   Longstreth, T: M. Adirondacks. (D ‘17)

 Administration of industrial enterprises. Jones, E: D: (My ‘17)

 Admiral’s wife in the making, 1860-1903. Poore, I. M., lady. (Je ‘17)

 Adornment of the spiritual marriage. Ruysbroeck, J. van. (Jl ‘17)

 Adventure beautiful. Whiting, L. (Ja ‘18)

 Adventure of death. MacKenna, R. W: (O ‘17)

 Adventures and letters of Richard Harding Davis. Davis, R: H. (Ja ‘18)

 Adventures in the African jungle hunting pigmies. Geil, W: E. (Je ‘17)

 Adventures of a woman hobo. Lynn, E. (Jl ‘17)

 Adventures of Jimmie Dale. Packard, F. L. (My ‘17)

 Adventures of Piang. Stuart, F. P. (D ‘17)

 Adventures of the U-202. Spiegel von und zu Peckelsheim, E., freiherr.
    (Je ‘17)

 Adventuress. Reeve, A. B: (F ‘18)

 =Advertising=
   Ashley, W. B., comp. Church advertising. (O ‘17)
   Deland, L. F. At the sign of the dollar. (My ‘17)
   Dench, E. A. Advertising by motion pictures. (Je ‘17)
   Farrar, G. P. Typography of advertisements that pay. (N ‘17)
   French, G: How to advertise. (Jl ‘17)
   Mahin, J: L. Advertising. (N ‘17)

 Advice to women. Stacpoole, F. (F ‘18)

 =Aeronautics=
   Carpenter, F. A. Aviator and the Weather bureau. (S ‘17)
   Collins, F. A. Air man. (S ‘17)
   Grahame-White, C., and Harper, H. Air power. (D ‘17)
   Turner, C: C. Aircraft of to-day. (Jl ‘17)
   Woodhouse, H: Textbook of naval aeronautics. (Ag ‘17)

 =Aeronautics, Military=
   Grahame-White, C., and Harper, H. Air power. (D ‘17)
   McConnell, J. R. Flying for France. (Ap ‘17)
   Middleton, E. C. Way of the air. (F ‘18)
   Munday, A. H. Eyes of the army and navy. (Ja ‘18)
   Winslow, C. D. With the French flying corps. (Je ‘17)

 =Aeroplanes=
   Lanchester, F: W: Flying-machine from an engineering standpoint. (Ja
      ‘18)

 Afraid. Dark, S. (Mr ‘17)

 =Africa=
   Du Plessis, J. Thrice through the dark continent. (Ja ‘18)
   =Missions=
     Livingstone, W: P. Mary Slessor of Calabar. (Ap ‘17)

 =Africa, East=
   Lorimer, N. O. By the waters of Africa. (D ‘17)

 African trail. Mackenzie, J. K. (S ‘17)

 Afternoon. Verhaeren, É. (My ‘17)

 After-war problems. Dawson, W: H., ed. (O ‘17)

 =Agricultural colleges=
   Waugh, F. A. Agricultural college. (Je ‘17)

 Agricultural economics. Nourse, E. G. (Ag ‘17)

 =Agricultural machinery=
   Ramsower, H. C. Equipment for the farm and the farmstead. (Je ‘17)

 =Agricultural pests=
   Conradi, A. F:, and Thomas, W: A. Farm spies. (Jl ‘17)
   Petherbridge, F. R. Fungoid and insect pests of the farm. (Jl ‘17)

 =Agriculture=
   Benson, O. H., and Betts, G: H. Agriculture and the farming business.
      (Mr ‘17)
   Davis, K. C. Productive plant husbandry. (D ‘17)
   Gehrs, J: H: Productive agriculture. (N ‘17)
   Gilbert, A. W., and others. Potato. (Jl ‘17)
   Long, H. C. Plants poisonous to live stock. (S ‘17)
   Morgan, J. O. Field crops for the cotton-belt. (N ‘17)
   Wilcox, E. V. Tropical agriculture. (Je ‘17)

 Air man. Collins, F. A. (S ‘17)

 Air power. Grahame-White, C., and Harper, H. (D ‘17)

 Aircraft of to-day. Turner, C. C. (Jl ‘17)

 Alabaster box. Freeman, M. E., and Kingsley, F. (My ‘17)

 =Alaska=
   Higginson, E. Alaska, the great country. (S ‘17)
   Stuck, H. Voyages on the Yukon and its tributaries. (F ‘18)

 =Alcibiades=, 450?-404 B. C.
   Robinson, C. E: Days of Alkibiades. (Je ‘17)

 =Alcohol, Physiological effects of=
   Fisk, E. L. Alcohol. (Ja ‘18)

 Alexis. Maclean, S. (N ‘17)

 =Algebra=
   Austin, F. E. Preliminary mathematics. (Ag ‘17)

 All aboard for Wonderland. Kingsbury, H. O. (D ‘17)

 All in it. Beith, J: H. (D ‘17)

 All-of-a-sudden Carmen. Kobbé, G. (Je ‘17)

 “All’s well!” Oxenham, J: (My ‘17)

 =Alpha of the plough=, pseud. See Gardiner, A. G.

 =Alsace-Lorraine=
   Blumenthal, D. Alsace-Lorraine. (F ‘18)
   Hazen, C: D. Alsace-Lorraine under German rule. (Ja ‘18)
   Jordan, D: S. Alsace-Lorraine. (Mr ‘17)

 Altar of freedom. Rinehart, M. (Je ‘17)

 Alternating currents. Magnusson. C. E: (Jl ‘17)

 Amarilly in love. Maniates, B. K. (O ‘17)

 Amateur philosopher. Grabo, C. H: (Ap ‘17)

 =Amateur theatricals=
   Clark, B. H. How to produce amateur plays. (O ‘17)

 Ambassador. Newton, J. F. (Je ‘17)

 =America=
   =Discovery and exploration=
     Kellogg, L. P., ed. Early narratives of the Northwest, 1634-1669.
        (Ap ‘17)

 America among the nations. Powers, H. H. (F ‘18)

 America and the great war for humanity and freedom. Johnson, W. F. (Ag
    ‘17)

 America and the new world epoch. Steinmetz, C: P. (F ‘18)

 America entangled. Jones, J: P. (N ‘17)

 American adventures. Street, J. L. (D ‘17)

 American ambassador. Byrne, L., pseud. (Jl ‘17)

 =American drama=
   Godfrey, T: Prince of Parthia. (N ‘17)
   Moses, M. J. American dramatist. (N ‘17)
   Quinn, A. H. Representative American plays. (My ‘17)

 American history for little folks. Blaisdell, A. F., and Ball, F. K. (D
    ‘17)

 American hydroelectric practice. Taylor, W: T:, and Braymer, D. H. (D
    ‘17)

 American ideals. Foerster, N., and Pierson, W: W., eds. (D ‘17)

 American in the making. Ravage, M. E. (D ‘17)

 American Indian corn (maize). Murphy, C: J. (F ‘18)

 American Indians, north of Mexico. Miner, W: H. (F ‘18)

 American league to enforce peace. Ashbee, C. R. (Ag ‘17)

 =American literature=
   Cambridge history of American literature. (Ja ‘18)
   Clark, J: S. Study of English and American writers. (Je ‘17)
   Ferguson, J: DeL. American literature in Spain. (Je ‘17)
   Kilmer, J., comp. Literature in the making. (Je ‘17)
   Long, W: J. Outlines of English and American literature. (Jl ‘17)
   Mantz, H. E. French criticism of American literature before 1850. (S
      ‘17)
   Mencken, H: L: Book of prefaces. (N ‘17)
   Morris, L. R., comp. Young idea. (S ‘17)
   Wyatt, E. F. Great companions. (Je ‘17)
   =Collections=
     Cornell Era. Above Cayuga’s waters. (Mr ‘17)
     Fulton, M. G., ed. Southern life in southern literature. (Je ‘17)
     Newcomer, A. G., and others, eds. Three centuries of American
        poetry and prose. (Ja ‘18)

 American patriotic prose and verse. Stevens, R. D. and D. H., eds. (F
    ‘18)

 American physician in Turkey. Ussher, C. D., and Knapp, G. H. (F ‘18)

 American pictures and their painters. Bryant, L. (S ‘17)

 =American poetry=
   Lowell, A. Tendencies in modern American poetry. (D ‘17)
   =Collections=
     Braithwaite, W: S. B., comp. Anthology of magazine verse for 1916.
        (Ag ‘17)
     Crow, M., comp. Christ in the poetry of today. (O ‘17)
     Monroe, H., and Henderson, A. C., eds. New poetry. (Ap ‘17)
     Newark, New Jersey. Committee of one hundred. Newark anniversary
        poems. (O ‘17)
   =Criticism=
     Braithwaite, W: S. B. Poetic year for 1916. (O ‘17)
     Morris, L. R., comp. Young idea. (S ‘17)

 American presidents. Moran, T: F. (F ‘18)

 American public library. Bostwick, A. E. (Ja ‘18)

 American Red cross text-book on home dietetics. Fish, A. Z. (Je ‘17)

 American revolution in our school text-books. Altschul, C: (N ‘17)

 American world policies. Weyl, W. E: (Ap ‘17)

 =Americanization=
   Talbot, W., comp. Americanization. (F ‘18)

 America’s case against Germany. Rogers, L. (O ‘17)

 America’s foreign relations. Johnson, W. F. (Ag ‘17)

 =Ammunition=
   Alford, L. P., ed. Manufacture of artillery ammunition. (Jl ‘17)

 Among us mortals. Hill, W: E. (Ja ‘18)

 Anchorage. Olmstead, F. (Je ‘17)

 Andes of southern Peru. Bowman, I. (Ap ‘17)

 =Andrews, Mrs Marlon.= See Hare, C., pseud.

 Andvari’s ring. Peterson, A. (My ‘17)

 =Animals, Habits and behavior of=
   McNally, G. M. Babyhood of wild beasts. (Ja ‘18)
   Pellett, F. C. Our backdoor neighbors. (Ja ‘18)

 =Animals, Legends and stories of=
   Gautier, J. Memoirs of a white elephant. (Ap ‘17)
   Greene, H. P. Pilot. (Je ‘17)

 =Anne, of Brittany, queen consort of Louis XII, king of France,
    1477-1514=
   Sanborn, H. J. Anne of Brittany. (D ‘17)

 Anne Pedersdotter. Wiers-Jenssen, H. (O ‘17)

 Anne’s house of dreams. Montgomery, L. M. (O ‘17)

 Annual magazine subject-index, 1916. Faxon, F: W., ed. (My ‘17)

 Annual of new poetry, 1917. (O ‘17)

 Annuals and biennials. Jekyll, G. (O ‘17)

 Answering voice. Teasdale, S., comp. (O ‘17)

 =Antarctic regions=
   Buchanan, J: Y. Comptes rendus of observation and reasoning. (Jl ‘17)

 Anthology of magazine verse for 1916. Braithwaite, W: S. B., comp. (Ag
    ‘17)

 Antony Gray,—gardener. Moore, L. (Jl ‘17)

 =Apostles’ creed=
   Drown, E: S. Apostles’ creed to-day. (My ‘17)

 Appeal of the nation. Gordon, G: A. (S ‘17)

 =Apples=
   Mackay, L. G. Housekeeper’s apple book. (F ‘18)

 Applied mechanics. Poorman, A. P. (Ja ‘18)

 Applied psychology. Hollingworth, H. L., and Poffenberger, A. T. (Ja
    ‘18)

 Apprentice course for small libraries. Wisconsin. University. Library
    school. (D ‘17)

 April elegy. Ficke, A. D. (Je ‘17)

 April folly. Lucas, St J. W. L. (S ‘17)

 Apron-strings. Gates, E. (Ja ‘18)

 =Arabia=
   =History=
     Hurgronje, C. S. Revolt in Arabia. (Je ‘17)

 =Arabic=
   Gairdner, W: H: T. Egyptian colloquial Arabic. (O ‘17)

 =Arbitration, Industrial=
   Academy of political science. Labor disputes and public service
      corporations. (Jl ‘17)

   Barnett, G: E., and McCabe, D: A. Mediation, investigation and
      arbitration in industrial disputes. (Ap ‘17)

 =Arbitration, International=
   Brown, P. M. International realities. (Mr ‘17)

 =Archeology=
   Cobern, C. M. New archeological discoveries. (N ‘17)
   Joyce, T: A. Central American and West Indian archæology. (My ‘17)

 =Architectural drawing=
   Dale, R. B. Drawing for builders. (Jl ‘17)

 =Architecture=
   Caffin, C: H: How to study architecture. (D ‘17)
   Cram, R. A., and others. Six lectures on architecture. (Mr ‘17)
   Price, C: M. Practical book of architecture. (Ap ‘17)
   _See also_ Church architecture
   =Spain=
     Byne, A., and Stapley, M. Spanish architecture of the sixteenth
        century. (S ‘17)

 =Architecture, Domestic=
   Cousins, F., and Riley, P. M. Wood-carver of Salem. (Ap ‘17)
   Embury, A. Livable house—its plan and design. (S ‘17)
   Izor, E. P. Costume design and home planning. (Ap ‘17)
   Robinson, L. E. Domestic architecture. (O ‘17)

 =Architecture, Gothic=
   Cram, R. A. Substance of Gothic. (N ‘17)

 =Architecture, Greek=
   Rider, B. C. Greek house. (Je ‘17)

 =Architecture, Lombard=
   Porter, A. K. Lombard architecture. (O ‘17)

 =Arctic regions=
   Muir, J: Cruise of the Corwin. (Ja ‘18)
   Peary, R. E. Secrets of polar travel. (D ‘17)

 Arctic stowaways. Wallace, D. (Ja ‘18)

 Are we capable of self-government? Noxon, F. W. (N ‘17)

 Argumentation and debating. Foster, W: T. (D ‘17)

 Aristocrat. Parker, L: N. (Je ‘17)

 Aristocrats of the garden. Wilson, E. H. (Ap ‘17)

 Arithmetic for engineers. Clapham, C: B. (Ap ‘17)

 =Arizona=
   James, G: W. Arizona, the wonderland. (Ja ‘18)

 Armenian legends and poems. Boyajian, Z. C., comp. (Ap ‘17)

 =Armenians=
   Bryce, J. B., viscount. Treatment of Armenians in the Ottoman empire,
      1915-1916. (Jl ‘17)
   Gibbons, H. D. Red rugs of Tarsus. (Je ‘17)

 =Arnold, Benedict=, 1740?-1801
   =Fiction=
     Stimson, F: J. My story. (D ‘17)

 =Arnold, Matthew=, 1822-1888
   Sherman, S. P. Matthew Arnold. (S ‘17)

 Around the year in the garden. Rockwell, F: F. (Ja ‘18)

 =Art=
   Wright, W. H, Creative will. (Ap ‘17)
   =Galleries and museums=
     Jackson, M. T. Museum. (Jl ‘17)

 =Art, British Imperial=
   Holme, C:, ed. Art of the British empire overseas. (O ‘17)
   Rinder, F., comp. Royal Scottish academy, 1826-1916. (N ‘17)

 =Art, Italian=
   Berenson, B. Study and criticism of Italian art. (Jl ‘17)

 Art of the British empire overseas. Holme, C:, ed. (O ‘17)

 Art theatre. Cheney, S. (D ‘17)

 =Artists, English=
   Smith, J. T: Nollekens and his times. (Ap ‘17)

 =Arts and crafts=
   Holme, C:, ed. Arts and crafts. (Je ‘17)

 =Aryans=
   Leslie, S. Celt and the world. (Ap ‘17)

 Asgard and the gods. Wägner, W. (D ‘17)

 =Asia=
   Ware, M. S. Old world through old eyes. (O ‘17)

 =Asia Minor=
   Childs, W. J. Across Asia Minor on foot. (My ‘17)
   Jastrow, M. War and the Bagdad railway. (F ‘18)

 Asphalt. Johns, O. G. (Jl ‘17)

 Assault on humanism. Shorey, P. (O ‘17)

 =Astronomy=
   Holt, A. H. Manual of field astronomy. (My ‘17)
   Moulton, F. R. Introduction to astronomy. (Je ‘17)

 At Plattsburg. French, A. (My ‘17)

 At Suvla Bay. Hargrave, J: (Ag ‘17)

 At the front in a flivver. Stevenson, W: Y. (Ja ‘18)

 At the sign of the dollar. Deland, L. F. (My ‘17)

 At the sign of the oldest house. Tompkins, J. W. (F ‘18)

 =Auction bridge=
   Foster, R. F: Pirate bridge. (Mr ‘17)

 =Audubon, John James=, 1780-1851
   Herrick, F. H. Audubon the naturalist. (D ‘17)

 Aurora the magnificent. Hall, G. (My ‘17)

 =Australia=
   =History=
     Reid, Sir G: H. My reminiscences. (S ‘17)
     Scott, E. Short history of Australia. (Jl ‘17)

 Australia in arms. Schuler, P. F. E. (Ag ‘17)

 =Austria=
   Schierbrand, W. von. Austria-Hungary. (N ‘17)
   =Court and courtiers=
     Rességuier, R. M. H. B., graf. Francis Joseph and his court. (Ja
        ‘18)
     Seven years in Vienna. (S ‘17)
   =Politics and government=
     Pollak, G. House of Hohenzollern and the Hapsburg monarchy. (S ‘17)

 =Authors=
   Bennett, A. Books and persons. (N ‘17)

 =Authors, American=
   Kilmer, J., comp. Literature in the making. (Je ‘17)

 =Authors, British=
   MacFarlane, C: Reminiscences of a literary life. (N ‘17)
   Miller, E. L. English literature. (O ‘17)

 =Authorship=
   Baker, H. T. Contemporary short story. (Ap ‘17)
   Canby, H: S., and others. Facts, thought, and imagination. (D ‘17)
   Esenwein, J. B. Writing for the magazines. (Ap ‘17)

 =Autobiography=
   Davies, W: H: Autobiography of a supertramp. (Je ‘17)
   Dunn, W. H. English biography. (My ‘17)
   Garland, H. Son of the middle border. (O ‘17)

 Autograph prices current. Courville, E. H., comp. (S ‘17)

 =Automobile engineering=
   Clark, A. G. Text book on motor car engineering, v 2. (Ja ‘18)

 =Automobiles=
   Barber, H. L. Story of the automobile. (D ‘17)
   Dunham, M. K. Automobile welding with the oxy-acetylene flame. (Je
      ‘17)
   Pagé, V: W. How to run an automobile. (Jl ‘17)
   =Laws and regulations=
     Childs, L. Legal points for automobile owners. (Jl ‘17)

 Autumn. Coxon, M. (My ‘17)

 Autumn loiterers. Towne, C: H. (D ‘17)

 =Aviation.= See Aeronautics

 Aviator and the Weather bureau. Carpenter, F. A. (S ‘17)

 Awakening of business. Hurley, E. N. (F ‘18)

 “Ayesha.” Mücke, H., von. (Ap ‘17)


 Bab. Rinehart, M. (Jl ‘17)

 Baby, before and after arrival. Cooke, J. B. (Je ‘17)

 Babyhood of wild beasts. McNally, G. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Baby’s food. Abt, I: A. (S ‘17)

 Backwater. Richardson, D. M. (My ‘17)

 =Bagdad railway=
   Jastrow, M. War and the Bagdad railway. (F ‘18)

 Balance. Bellamy, F. R. (Mr ‘17)

 Balancing country life. Young men’s Christian associations.
    International committee. (Ja ‘18)

 Balfour, Viviani and Joffre. Halsey, F. W., ed. (S ‘17)

 Balkan freebooter. Gordon, J. (Ap ‘17)

 =Balkan peninsula=
   =Description and travel=
     Brown, D. Heart of the Balkans. (Jl ‘17)
     Conway, A. E. Ride through the Balkans. (Ja ‘18)

 =Banks and banking=
   Dunbar, C: F. Theory and history of banking. (F ‘18)
   Holdsworth, J: T. Money and banking. (F ‘18)
   Phillips, C. A. Readings in money and banking. (Je ‘17)
   Todd, J: A. Mechanism of exchange. (N ‘17)
   Withers, H. Meaning of money. (Jl ‘17)
   Wolfe, O. H. Practical banking. (Ja ‘18)

 Banks of Colne (the nursery). Phillpotts, E. (Jl ‘17)

 =Bantus=
   Mackenzie, J. K. African trail. (S ‘17)

 Barbarians. Chambers, R. W: (D ‘17)

 Barbed wire. Piper, E. F. (Ja ‘18)

 =Barnes, Ronald Gorell.= See Gorell, R. G. Barnes, 3d baron

 =Barrie, Robert=, 1866-
   Barrie, R. My log. (D ‘17)

 Basis of durable peace. Cosmos, pseud. (Mr ‘17)

 =Baths and bathing=
   Bowers, E. F: Bathing for health. (Jl ‘17)

 Battle of the Somme. Buchan, J: (Jl ‘17)

 Battle of Verdun. Dugard, H: (Je ‘17)

 Battle with tuberculosis and how to win it. King, D. M. (N ‘17)

 Battles of the Somme. Gibbs. P. (Mr ‘17)

 Baubles. Wells, C. (N ‘17)

 =Bayonet=
   Bayonet training manual used by the British forces. (S ‘17)
   McLaglen, L. Bayonet fighting. (S ‘17)
   New manual of bayonet training and Practical bayonet fighting. (S
      ‘17)

 Beautiful crochet on household linen. Klickmann, F. (Je ‘17)

 =Bees=
   =Fiction=
     McCaleb, W. F. Happy. (Jl ‘17)

 =Beethoven, Ludwig van=, 1770-1827
   Rolland, R. Beethoven. (Mr ‘17)

 Beetle. Marsh, R: (Ap ‘17)

 Beggar and king. Glaenzer, R: B. (F ‘18)

 Beginnings of English overseas enterprise. Lucas, Sir C: P. (F ‘18)

 Beginnings of modern Europe (1250-1450). Emerton, E. (Ja ‘18)

 Behind the German veil. Beaufort, J. M. de. (Jl ‘17)

 Behind the thicket. Henderson, W. E. B. (D ‘17)

 =Belgian literature=
   Turquet-Milnes, G. Some modern Belgian writers. (N ‘17)

 Belgian twins. Perkins, L. F. (F ‘18)

 =Belgium=
   Verdavaine, G. Pictures of ruined Belgium. (N ‘17)
   =German occupation, 1914-=
     Cammaerts, E. Through the iron bars. (O ‘17)
     Halasi, ö. Belgium under the German heel. (O ‘17)

 =Belief=
   Forbes, W. E. Cycles of personal belief. (Jl ‘17)

 Belief in God and immortality. Leuba, J. H: (Je ‘17)

 Belinda of the Red cross. Hamilton, R. W. (N ‘17)

 =Bellini, Giovanni=, 1430?-1516
   Berenson, B. Venetian painting in America. (My ‘17)

 Benefits forgot. Willsie, H. M. (N ‘17)

 =Benson, Margaret=, 1865-1916
   Benson, A. C. Life and letters of Maggie Benson. (D ‘17)

 Besieged in Kut and after. Barber, C: H. (O ‘17)

 Best man I know. Hyde, W: D. (N ‘17)

 Best o’ luck. McClintock, A. (D ‘17)

 Best Russian short stories. Seltzer, T:, comp. and ed. (N ‘17)

 Best short stories of 1916 and the Yearbook of the American short
    story. O’Brien, E: J. H., ed. (Mr ‘17)

 Better meals for less money. Green, M., pseud. (Je ‘17)

 Betty Trevor. Vaizey, J. (Mr ‘17)

 Beyond. Galsworthy, J: (S ‘17)

 =Bible, Whole=
   =About the Bible=
     Kent, C: F. Social teachings of the prophets and Jesus. (Jl ‘17)
     Work, E. H. Bible in English literature. (Ja ‘18)
     _Criticism, interpretation, etc._
       Milligan, G: Expository value of the Revised version. (F ‘18)
     _Study and teaching_
       Wood, C. A. School and college credit for outside Bible study.
          (Je ‘17)
     _Versions_
       Margolis, M. L. Story of Bible translations. (N ‘17)

 =Bible. Old Testament=
   =About the Old Testament=
     _Criticism, interpretation, etc._
       Robertson, E. S. Bible’s prose epic of Eve and her sons. (Ap ‘17)
     _Introductions_
       Creelman, H. Introduction to the Old Testament. (D ‘17)
     _Prophets_
       Bizzell, W: B. Social teachings of the Jewish prophets. (Je ‘17)
   =Parts of the Old Testament=
     _Genesis_
       Robertson. E. S. Bible’s prose epic of Eve and her sons. (Ap ‘17)

 =Bible. New Testament=
   =About the New Testament=
     Hayes, D. A. John and his writings. (Je ‘17)
     _Antiquities_
       Cobern, C. M. New archeological discoveries. (N ‘17)
   =Parts of the New Testament=
     _Gospels_
       Sharman, H: B. Records of the life of Jesus. (F ‘18)

 =Bibliographies=
   Bacon, C., comp. Children’s catalog of thirty-five hundred books. (Ap
      ‘17)
   Grimm, M. E., comp. Translations of foreign novels. (D ‘17)
   Webb, A. P., comp. Bibliography of the works of Thomas Hardy,
      1865-1915. (Ap ‘17)

 Bibliography on “English for engineers.” Sypherd, W. O. (O ‘17)

 Big little person. Eastman, R. L. (N ‘17)

 Bindle. Jenkins, H. G: (Ap ‘17)

 Bindweed. Vallings, G. (Jl ‘17)

 =Biography=
   Bassett, J: S. Middle group of American historians. (Mr ‘17)
   Bradford, G. Naturalist of souls. (N ‘17)
   Dunn, W. H. English biography. (My ‘17)
   Gribble, F. H: Women in war. (O ‘17)
   Macfarlane, A. Lectures on ten British mathematicians of the
      nineteenth century. (Jl ‘17)
   Parkman, M. R. Heroes of to-day. (D ‘17)
   Parkman, M. R. Heroines of service. (D ‘17)
   Slosson, E. E. Six major prophets. (My ‘17)
   =Dictionaries=
     Preev, Z. N. Russian revolution and Who’s who in Russia. (Ag ‘17)

 =Biological chemistry=
   Tashiro, S. Chemical sign of life. (N ‘17)

 =Biology=
   Calkins, G. N. Biology. (Ja ‘18)
   Darbishire, A. D. Introduction to a biology. (Jl ‘17)
   Loeb, J. Organism as a whole. (S ‘17)

 Biology of twins (mammals). Newman, H. H. (Ja ‘18)

 =Birds=
   Dixon, R. Human side of birds. (Ja ‘18)
   Doubleday, N. B. Birds worth knowing. (Je ‘17)
   Geikie, Sir A. Birds of Shakespeare. (Je ‘17)
   Kuser, J: D. Way to study birds. (Jl ‘17)
   Pearson, T: G. Bird study book. (Ap ‘17)
   Porter, G. Friends in feathers. (Jl ‘17)

 =Birth control=
   Ellis, H. Essays in war-time. (Mr ‘17)

 =Bitter, Karl Theodore Francis, 1867-1915=
   Schevill, F. Karl Bitter. (S ‘17)

 =Blanchan, Neltje=, pseud. See Doubleday, N. B.

 =Blast furnaces=
   Johnson, J. E., jr. Blast-furnace construction in America. (S ‘17)

 Blue aura. Miller, E. Y. (Ja ‘18)

 Blue envelope. Kerr, S. (My ‘17)

 Blue heron’s feather. Holland, R. S. (D ‘17)

 Blue streak. Hines, J: C. (D ‘17)

 =Boats and boating=
   Miller, W. H. Boys’ book of canoeing and sailing. (My ‘17)

 Book of ballads, old and new. Stempel, G. H., comp. and ed. (N ‘17)

 Book of camping. Verrill, A. H. (S ‘17)

 Book of Carnegie libraries. Koch, T. W. (Ja ‘18)

 Book of holidays. McSpadden, J. W. (Ja ‘18)

 Book of home nursing. Campbell, F. (Ja ‘18)

 Book of New York. Shackleton, R. (F ‘18)

 Book of New York verse. Armstrong, H. F., ed. (F ‘18)

 Book of prefaces. Mencken, H: L: (N ‘17)

 Book of self. Oppenheim, J. (Jl ‘17)

 Book of the happy warrior. Newbolt, Sir H: J: (Ja ‘18)

 Book of the machine gun. Longstaff, F: V., and Atteridge, A. H. (Ja
    ‘18)

 Book of the peony. Harding, A. (Je ‘17)

 Book of the West Indies. Verrill, A. H. (F ‘18)

 Book of verse of the great war. Wheeler, W: R., ed. (Ja ‘18)

 =Books=
   Aldis, H. G. Printed book. (S ‘17)

 Books and persons. Bennett, A. (N ‘17)

 =Books and reading=
   Kerfoot, J. B. How to read. (Ag ‘17)
   Ward, G. O. Practical use of books and libraries. (Jl ‘17)

 =Books for boys and girls=
   Aldon, A. Island of Appledore. (D ‘17)
   Altsheler, J. A. Rulers of the lakes. (D ‘17)
   Ames, J. B. Under boy scout colors. (D ‘17)
   Ashmun, M. E. Heart of Isabel Carleton. (D ‘17)
   Barbee, L. Let’s pretend. (D ‘17)
   Bassett, S. W. Story of sugar. (Ja ‘18)
   Blaisdell, A. F., and Ball, F. K. American history for little folks.
      (D ‘17)
   Bosschère, J. de. Christmas tales of Flanders. (Ja ‘18)
   Brown, E. A. Spanish chest. (D ‘17)
   Browne, B. White blanket. (Ja ‘18)
   Calhoun, D. D. Princess of Let’s Pretend. (S ‘17)
   Carmichael, M. H., comp. Pioneer days. (D ‘17)
   Cauldwell, S: M. Chocolate cake and black sand. (D ‘17)
   Chaplin, A. Treasury of fairy tales. (Ja ‘18)
   Chase, M. E. Virginia of Elk Creek valley. (N ‘17)
   Collins, A. F: Magic of science. (D ‘17)
   Collins, A. F: Money making for boys. (Ja ‘18)
   Collins, A. F: and V. D. Boys’ book of submarines. (F ‘18)
   Conradi, A. F:, and Thomas, W: A., Farm spies. (Jl ‘17)
   Cragin, L. E. Sunday story hour. (D ‘17)
   Crump, I. Boys’ book of policemen. (Je ‘17)
   Dasent, Sir G: W. East o’ the sun and west o’ the moon. (My ‘17)
   Davis, R: H. Boy scout. (D ‘17)
   De Groot, C. When I was a girl in Holland. (D ‘17)
   De La Mare, W. J: Peacock pie. (Jl ‘17)
   Dickinson, A. D. and H. W., eds. Children’s book of patriotic
      stories. (D ‘17)
   Dunn, B. A. Boy scouts of the Shenandoah. (Ap ‘17)
   Dyer, W. A. Five Babbitts at Bonnyacres. (D ‘17)
   Eells, E. S. Fairy tales from Brazil. (D ‘17)
   Fabre, J. H. C. Insect adventures. (Ja ‘18)
   Fabre, J. H. C. Story-book of science. (D ‘17)
   Fall, D. Science for beginners. (Ja ‘18)
   Fisher, D. F. Understood Betsy. (O ‘17)
   French, A. Golden Eagle. (D ‘17)
   Fryer, J. Mary Frances first aid book. (N ‘17)
   Gaines, R. L., and Read, G. W. Village shield. (O ‘17)
   Garis, H. R. Venture boys afloat. (D ‘17)
   Gautier, J. Memoirs of a white elephant. (Ap ‘17)
   Geil, W: E. Adventures in the African jungle hunting pigmies. (Je
      ‘17)
   Gray, V. G. Margery Morris. (F ‘18)
   Greene, H. P. Pilot. (Je ‘17)
   Gregor, E. R. White otter. (Je ‘17)
   Grosvenor, J. Strange stories of the great valley. (Je ‘17)
   Hagedorn, H. You are the hope of the world! (O ‘17)
   Hall, M. E. Roger Williams. (D ‘17)
   Hamilton, J. G. de R. and M. T. Life of Robert E. Lee for boys and
      girls. (D ‘17)
   Hawkes, C. Wood and water friends. (D ‘17)
   Holland, R. S. Blue heron’s feather. (D ‘17)
   Jackson, G. E. Silverheels. (D ‘17)
   Jefferson, C: E: Land of enough. (Ja ‘18)
   Jones, R. M. St Paul, the hero. (O ‘17)
   Judson, K. B. Old Crow stories. (D ‘17)
   Kingsbury, H. O. All aboard for Wonderland. (D ‘17)
   Knipe, E. and A. A. Lost little lady. (D ‘17)
   Knipe, E. and A. A. Maid of old Manhattan. (D ‘17)
   Lange, D. Lure of the Mississippi. (D ‘17)
   Livingstone, W: P. Story of Mary Slessor for young people. (D ‘17)
   Macaulay, F. Camp Jolly. (D ‘17)
   McCaleb. W. F. Happy. (Jl ‘17)
   McFee, I. N. Boys and girls of many lands. (D ‘17)
   Marshall, H. E. This country of ours. (F ‘18)
   Mathewson, C. Second base Sloan. (Jl ‘17)
   Merington, M. More fairy tale plays. (D ‘17)
   Miller, W. H. Boys’ book of canoeing and sailing. (My ‘17)
   Newberry, P. Castaway Island. (D ‘17)
   Newbolt, Sir H: J: Book of the happy warrior. (Ja ‘18)
   Niemeyer, N. Stories for the history hour. (D ‘17)
   Olcott, F. J. Red Indian fairy book. (D ‘17)
   Olcott, F. J. Tales of the Persian genii. (Ja ‘18)
   Paget, S. I sometimes think. (Jl ‘17)
   Parkman, M. R. Heroes of to-day. (D ‘17)

   Parkman, M. R. Heroines of service. (D ‘17)
   Parry. T: W. When Daddy was a boy. (D ‘17)
   Peattie, E. Newcomers. (D ‘17)
   Perkins, L. F. Belgian twins. (F ‘18)
   Pier, A. S. Plattsburgers. (O ‘17)
   Pollock, F. L. Northern diamonds. (D ‘17)
   Pollock, F. L. Wilderness honey. (D ‘17)
   Quinn, E. V., ed. Stokes’ wonder book of fairy tales. (D ‘17)
   Rice, G., ed. Boys’ book of sports. (D ‘17)
   Rollins, M. Village pest. (Ja ‘18)
   Rolt-Wheeler., F. W: Boy with the U.S. weather men. (Ja ‘18)
   Rolt-Wheeler, F. W: Polar hunters. (Jl ‘17)
   Rolt-Wheeler, F. W: Wonder of war in the air. (F ‘18)
   Samson, R. M. Schoolgirl allies. (Ja ‘18)
   Schultz, J. W. Gold cache. (D ‘17)
   Scott, E. Elizabeth Bess. (D ‘17)
   Seaman, A. H. Girl next door. (D ‘17)
   Seebach, J. F. and M. R. Singing weaver. (D ‘17)
   Singmaster, E. Long journey. (Ap ‘17)
   Skinner, A. M. and E. L., comps. Topaz story book. (Ja ‘18)
   Smith, E. S., comp. Mystery tales for boys and girls. (D ‘17)
   Snell, R. J. Eskimo Robinson Crusoe. (D ‘17)
   Stuart, F. P. Adventures of Piang. (D ‘17)
   Turpin, E. H: L. Peggy of Roundabout lane. (D ‘17)
   Vaizey, J. Betty Trevor. (Mr ‘17)
   Van Teslaar, J. S. When I was a boy in Roumania. (Jl ‘17)
   Wallace, D. Arctic stowaways. (Ja ‘18)
   Whyte, A. G. World’s wonder stories. (D ‘17)
   Widdemer, M. Winona of Camp Karonya. (Ja ‘18)
   Wilkinson, A. Boy holidays in the Louisiana wilds. (D ‘17)
   Yard, R. S. Top of the continent. (D ‘17)

 =Booksellers and bookselling=
   Longman, W. Tokens of the eighteenth century connected with
      booksellers and bookmakers. (Jl ‘17)

 =Borneo=
   Shelford, R. W. C. Naturalist in Borneo. (S ‘17)

 =Botany=
   Clements, F: E: Plant succession. (My ‘17)
   Faulkner, H. W. Mysteries of the flowers. (My ‘17)
   Gager, C: S. Fundamentals of botany. (Je ‘17)
   Ganong, W: F. Textbook of botany for colleges. (Je ‘17)
   Keeler, H. L. Wayside flowers of summer. (Je ‘17)

 =Boundaries=
   Holdich, Sir T: H. Political frontiers and boundary making. (Ap ‘17)

 Boy holidays in the Louisiana wilds. Wilkinson, A. (D ‘17)

 Boy scout. Davis, R: H. (D ‘17)

 Boy scouts of the Shenandoah. Dunn, B. A. (Ap ‘17)

 Boy with the U.S. weather men. Rolt-Wheeler, F. W: (Ja ‘18)

 Boys and girls of many lands. McFee, I. N. (D ‘17)

 Boys’ book of canoeing and sailing. Miller, W. H. (My ‘17)

 Boys’ book of policemen. Crump, I. (Je ‘17)

 Boys’ book of sports. Rice, G., ed. (D ‘17)

 Boys’ book of submarines. Collins, A. F: and V. D. (F ‘18)

 Boys’ camp manual. Taylor, C: K. (F ‘18)

 Bracelet of garnets. Kuprin, A. I. (Je ‘17)

 Brahmadarsanam. Achārya, A. (Ja ‘18)

 Brandon of the engineers. Bindloss, H. (Mr ‘17)

 =Brazil=
   Cooper, C. S. Brazilians and their country. (Ja ‘18)
   Elliott, L. E. Brazil today and tomorrow. (My ‘17)

 Breaches of Anglo-American treaties. Bigelow, J: (My ‘17)

 =Breathing=
   Haldane, J: S. Organism and environment as illustrated by the
      physiology of breathing. (O ‘17)

 =Breshkovsky, Mme Catherine=, 1845-
   Breshkovsky, C. Little grandmother of the Russian revolution. (Ja
      ‘18)

 =Brieux, Eugène=, 1858-
   Scheifley, W: H. Brieux and contemporary French society. (Ja ‘18)

 Bringing out Barbara. Train, E. (D ‘17)

 Britain in arms. Destrée, J. (N ‘17)

 Britain’s civilian volunteers. Bowser, T. (Jl ‘17)

 =British Columbia=
   =Description and travel=
     Haworth, P. L. On the headwaters of Peace river. (Ja ‘18)

 British foreign policy in Europe to the end of the 19th century.
    Egerton, H. E: (F ‘18)

 =British In South America=
   Koebel, W: H: British exploits In South America. (O ‘17)

 British museum library. Rawlings, G. B. (Ap ‘17)

 British navy at war. Dixon, W: M. (S ‘17)

 Broken gate. Hough, E. (N ‘17)

 Broken wing. Naidu, S. (My ‘17)

 Bromley neighborhood. Brown, A. (S ‘17)

 =Brooke, Stopford Augustus=, 1832-1916
   Jacks, L. P. Life and letters of Stopford Brooke. (F ‘18)

 Brothers in arms. Powell, E. A. (Ag ‘17)

 Brought forward. Cunninghame Graham, R. B. (F ‘18)

 Brown-eyed Susan. Irwin, G. (O ‘17)

 Brown study. Richmond, G. L. (Je ‘17)

 =Bruno, Giordano=, 1548-1600
   Boulting, W: Giordano Bruno. (F ‘18)

 Bucking the tiger. Abdullah, A. (O ‘17)

 =Buckley, James Monroe=, 1836-
   Mains, G: P. James Monroe Buckley. (N ‘17)

 =Buddhism=
   Anesaki, M. Nichiren, the Buddhist prophet. (Ap ‘17)
   Coomaraswamy, A. K. Buddha and the gospel of Buddhism. (Ag ‘17)

 =Budget=
   Stourm, R. Budget. (D ‘17)

 =Budgett, Mrs Sidney.= See Dejeans, E.

 Bullets and billets. Bairnsfather, B. (Mr ‘17)

 =Burns, Robert=, 1759-1796
   Burns, R. Sylvander and Clarinda. (D ‘17)
   Neilson, W: A. Robert Burns: how to know him. (S ‘17)

 =Burrows, Julius Cæsar=, 1837-1915
   Orcutt, W: D. Burrows of Michigan and the Republican party. (F ‘18)

 =Business books=
   Bennett, R. J. Corporation accounting. (S ‘17)
   Church, A. H. Manufacturing costs and accounts. (Jl ‘17)
   Crane, V. E. Business law for business men. (Je ‘17)
   Farrar, G. P. Typography of advertisements that pay. (N ‘17)
   Field, C. C. Retail buying. (N ‘17)
   French, G: How to advertise. (Jl ‘17)
   Gephart, W: F. Principles of insurance. (My ‘17)
   Gerstenberg, C: W., and Johnson, W. S. Organization and control. (N
      ‘17)
   Gilman, S. Principles of accounting. (My ‘17)
   Hayward, W: R. Money. (Jl ‘17)
   Horner, W. M. Training for a life insurance agent. (S ‘17)
   Hurley, E. N. Awakening of business. (F ‘18)
   Jones, E: D: Administration of industrial enterprises. (My ‘17)
   Lough, W: H: Business finance. (Jl ‘17)
   Mahin, J: L. Advertising. (N ‘17)
   Montague, G. H. Business competition and the law. (My ‘17)
   Nystrom, P. H: Retail store management. (S ‘17)

   Parkhurst, F: A: Predetermination of true costs and relatively true
      selling prices. (Je ‘17)
   Parsons, C. C. Office organization and management. (N ‘17)
   Sales service company. Selling your services. (F ‘18)
   Scovell, C. H. Cost accounting and burden application. (Ap ‘17)
   Webb, S. Works manager to-day. (F ‘18)
   Webner, F. E. Factory accounting. (S ‘17)

 =Business ethics=
   Fowler, N. C., jr. Grasping opportunity. (N ‘17)
   Reed, H. B. Morals of monopoly and competition. (S ‘17)

 Business law for business men. Crane, U. E. (Je ‘17)

 =Butterflies=
   Weed, C. M. Butterflies worth knowing. (Je ‘17)

 By the waters of Africa. Lorimer, N. O. (D ‘17)

 “By the world forgot.” Brady, C. T. (Ja ‘18)

 =Bywater, Ingram=, 1840-1914
   Jackson, W: W. Ingram Bywater. (N ‘17)


 =Cafeteria=
   Geary, B. Handbook of the association cafeteria. (N ‘17)

 Cake, pastry and dessert dishes. Hill, J. (O ‘17)

 =Calhoun, John Caldwell=, 1782-1850
   Meigs, W: M. Life of John Caldwell Calhoun. (Ja ‘18)

 =California=
   =Description and travel=
     Murphy, T: D. Oregon, the picturesque. (Ja ‘18)

 Call of the Republic. Wise, J. C. (Jl ‘17)

 Calvary alley. Rice, A. C. (O ‘17)

 Cambridge history of American literature. (Ja ‘18)

 Cambridge history of English literature. (Mr ‘17)

 Campaign diary of a French officer. Nicolas, R. (Je ‘17)

 Camp-fire verse. Haynes, W., and Harrison, J. L., comps. (Ja ‘18)

 Camp Jolly. Macaulay, F. (D ‘17)

 =Camping=
   Fordyce, C. P. Touring afoot. (S ‘17)
   Pinkerton, K. S. Woodcraft for women. (S ‘17)
   Verrill, A. H. Book of camping. (S ‘17)

 =Camps (Military)=
   Taylor, C: K. Boys’ camp manual. (F ‘18)

 =Canada=
   Miller, J: O., ed. New era in Canada. (N ‘17)
   Whiting, L. Canada, the spell-binder. (N ‘17)
   =Army=
     Beaverbrook, W: M. A., 1st baron. Canada in Flanders. (O ‘17)
   =Constitution=
     Riddell, W: R. Constitution of Canada in its history and practical
        working. (S ‘17)
   =Description and travel=
     Curran, W: T., and Calkins, H. A. In Canada’s wonderful northland.
        (Ap ‘17)
   =History=
     Hammond, M. O. Canadian confederation and its leaders. (D ‘17)
     Riddell, W: R. Constitution of Canada in its history and practical
        working. (S ‘17)

 Canada in war-paint. Bell, R. W. (F ‘18)

 Canadian poets and poetry. Garvin, J: W:, ed. (Mr ‘17)

 Candid courtship. Mears, M. (O ‘17)

 =Candy=
   Bradley, A. Candy cook book. (Je ‘17)

 =Canfield, Dorothy.= See Fisher, D. F.

 =Canning and preserving=
   Handy, A. L. War food. (Ag ‘17)
   Powell, O. Successful canning and preserving. (O ‘17)

 =Canoes and canoeing=
   Miller, W. H. Boys’ book of canoeing and sailing. (My ‘17)

 Canterbury pilgrims. MacKaye, P. W. (Je ‘17)

 Cantonment manual. Kilner, W. G., and MacElroy, A. J. (F ‘18)

 =Cape Fear River Valley, North Carolina=
   Sprunt, J. Chronicles of the Cape Fear River, 1660-1916. (F ‘18)

 =Capital=
   Cunningham, W: Progress of capitalism in England. (N ‘17)
   Hobson, J: A. Evolution of modern capitalism. (Ja ‘18)

 =Capital punishment=
   Fanning, C. E., comp. Selected articles on capital punishment. (Ap
      ‘17)

 Cap’n Abe, storekeeper. Cooper, J. A. (S ‘17)

 =Cards=
   Foster, R. F:, ed. Hoyle up-to-date. (Je ‘17)
   Foster, R. F: Pirate bridge. (Mr ‘17)

 =Caricatures and cartoons=
   Herford, O. Confessions of a caricaturist. (O ‘17)
   Hohenzollerns through German eyes. (O ‘17)

 Carmen’s messenger. Bindloss, H. (O ‘17)

 =Carpenter, William Boyd=, 1841-
   Carpenter, W: B. Further pages of my life. (Jl ‘17)

 =Carpentry=
   Adams, J: D. Carpentry for beginners. (Ja ‘18)
   Griffith, I. S: Carpentry. (Jl ‘17)

 =Carroll, Dixie=, pseud. See Cook, C. B.

 Carry on. Dawson, G. (Ag ‘17)

 =Cars=
   Husband, J. Story of the Pullman car. (Jl ‘17)

 Castaway Island. Newberry, P. (D ‘17)

 Castaways. Jacobs, W: W. (Mr ‘17)

 =Caste=
   Benton, A. H. Indian moral instruction and caste problems. (S ‘17)

 Castle to let. Reynolds, G. M. (Ja ‘18)

 =Cattle=
   Eckles, C. H:, and Warren, G: F: Dairy farming. (Ag ‘17)

 Cause, The. Binyon, L. (Jl ‘17)

 Causes of tuberculosis. Cobbett, L: (O ‘17)

 =Cavell, Edith Louisa=, 1866-1915
   Edith Cavell nurse from Massachusetts. (Je ‘17)

 Cecilia of the pink roses. Taylor, K. H. (O ‘17)

 Cellar-house of Pervyse. Mitton, G. E. (Ap ‘17)

 Celt and the world. Leslie, S. (Ap ‘17)

 Celtic dawn. Morris, L. R. (Ap ‘17)

 =Cement=
   Brown, W: A. Portland cement industry. (S ‘17)

 =Central America=
   =Antiquities=
     Joyce, T: A. Central American and West Indian archæology. (My ‘17)

 =Ceylon=
   Mitton, G. E. Lost cities of Ceylon. (S ‘17)

 =Chair caning=
   Perry, L. D. Seat weaving. (Ag ‘17)

 Challenge of St Louis. Mangold, G: B: (D ‘17)

 Challenge of the present crisis. Fosdick, H. E. (Ja ‘18)

 Change of air. Gerould, K. (D ‘17)

 Changing winds. Ervine, St J. G. (My ‘17)

 Chapters from my official life. Wilson, Sir C: R. (Je ‘17)

 =Charities=
   Barton, G: E: Re-education. (Ja ‘18)
   Bogen, B. D. Jewish philanthropy. (N ‘17)
   Richmond, M. A. Social diagnosis. (Jl ‘17)

 Charity. Cunninghame Graham, R. B. (F ‘18)

 =Charity organization=
   Bercovici, K. Crimes of charity. (Jl ‘17)

 =Charles V, emperor of the Holy Roman Empire=, 1500-1558
   Hare, C., pseud. Great emperor, Charles V, 1519-1558. (Jl ‘17)

 =Charles XII, king of Sweden=, 1682-1718
   Gade, J: A. Charles the twelfth, king of Sweden. (Ag ‘17)

 =Charleston, South Carolina=
   Smith, A. R. H. and D. E. H. Dwelling houses of Charleston, South
      Carolina. (Ja ‘18)

 =Chartism=
   Faulkner, H. U. Chartism and the churches. (My ‘17)
   Rosenblatt, F. F. Chartist movement in its social and economic
      aspects. (S ‘17)
   Slosson, P. W: Decline of the Chartist movement. (My ‘17)

 =Chase, William Merritt=, 1849-1916
   Roof, K. M. Life and art of William Merritt Chase. (F ‘18)

 Chaste wife. Swinnerton, F. A. (Ap ‘17)

 Chatham’s colonial policy. Hotblack, K. (Ja ‘18)

 Chemical sign of life. Tashiro, S. (N ‘17)

 =Chemistry=
   =Dictionaries=
     Patterson, A. M. German-English dictionary for chemists. (Jl ‘17)

 =Chemistry, Biological.= See Biological chemistry

 =Chemistry, Industrial=
   Rogers, A. Laboratory guide of industrial chemistry. (D ‘17)

 =Chemistry, Physical and theoretical=
   McClendon, J. F. Physical chemistry of vital phenomena. (Ja ‘18)

 =Chemistry, Sanitary.= See Sanitary chemistry

 =Chemistry, Technical=
   Leighou, R. B: Chemistry of materials of the machine and building
      industries. (D ‘17)
   Rogers, A., ed. Elements of industrial chemistry. (Jl ‘17)
   Tilden, Sir W: A: Chemical discovery and invention in the twentieth
      century. (S ‘17)

 =Chicago=
   =Social conditions=
     Carbaugh, H. C., ed. Human welfare work in Chicago. (Je ‘17)

 =Child study=
   Melville, N. J: Standard method of testing juvenile mentality by the
      Binet-Simon scale. (Jl ‘17)

 =Children=
   Bruce, H: A. B. Handicaps of childhood. (D ‘17)
   =Care and hygiene=
     Croy, M. S. 1000 things a mother should know. (Je ‘17)
   =Management=
     Hughes, J. L. Training the children. (N ‘17)

 Children of fate. Rutledge, M., pseud. (My ‘17)

 Children of the desert. Dodge, L: (Ap ‘17)

 Children’s book of patriotic stories. Dickinson, A. D. and H. W., eds.
    (D ‘17)

 Children’s books. See Books for boys and girls

 Children’s catalog of thirty-five hundred books. Bacon, C., comp. (Ap
    ‘17)

 Children’s library. Powell, S. H. (My ‘17)

 =Children’s plays=
   Barbee, L. Let’s pretend. (D ‘17)
   Cauldwell, S: M. Chocolate cake and black sand. (D ‘17)
   Merington, M. More fairy tale plays. (D ‘17)

 =Children’s poetry and rimes=
   De La Mare, W. J: Peacock pie. (Jl ‘17)

 =Children’s stories=
   Esenwein, J. B., and Stockard, M. Children’s stories. (D ‘17)

 Child’s religion. Wilbur, M. A. (Je ‘17)

 =China=
   Latourette, K. S. Development of China. (Ap ‘17)
   Parker. E: H. China. (N ‘17)
   =Description and travel=
     Gamewell, M. N. Gateway to China. (Ap ‘17)
     Miller, G: A. China inside out. (Je ‘17)
     Scott, C: E. China from within. (Ja ‘18)
   =History=
     _Revolution_
       Weale, B. L. P., pseud. Fight for the republic in China. (Ja ‘18)
   =Religion=
     Clennell, W. J. Historical development of religion in China. (O
        ‘17)

 Chinese cook book. Chan, S. W. (D ‘17)

 Chinese nightingale. Lindsay, N. V. (D ‘17)

 =Chinese poetry=
   Cranmer-Byng, L. A., tr. Feast of lanterns. (O ‘17)

 =Choate, Joseph Hodges=, 1832-1917
   Strong, T. G: Joseph H. Choate. (N ‘17)

 Chocolate cake and black sand. Cauldwell, S: M. (D ‘17)

 Choice before us. Dickinson, G. L. (O ‘17)

 Chosen people. Nyburg, S. L. (Ap ‘17)

 Christ in the poetry of today. Crow, M., comp. (O ‘17)

 =Christian life=
   Figgis, J: N. Some defects in English religion. (S ‘17)
   McComb, S: New life. (Jl ‘17)

 Christian ministry and social problems. Williams, C: D: (N ‘17)

 =Christian science=
   Harris, W. S. Christian science and the ordinary man. (Je ‘17)

 =Christianity=
   Brown, W: A. Is Christianity practicable? (Je ‘17)
   Hodges, G: Religion in a world at war. (Ag ‘17)
   Sanday, W:, and Williams, N. P. Form and content in the Christian
      tradition. (My ‘17)

 Christianopolis. Andreä, J. V. (My ‘17)

 Christine. Barr, A. E. (O ‘17)

 Christine. Cholmondeley, A. (O ‘17)

 Christmas and the year round. Crane, F. (F ‘18)

 Christmas tales of Flanders. Bosschère, J. de. (Ja ‘18)

 Chronicles of the Cape Fear River, 1660-1916. Sprunt, J. (F ‘18)

 Church advertising. Ashley, W. B., comp. (O ‘17)

 Church and science. Windle, Sir B. C. A. (N ‘17)

 =Church and social problems=
   Williams, C: D: Christian ministry and social problems. (N ‘17)

 =Church and state=
   Gwatkin, H: M. Church and state in England to the death of Queen
      Anne. (F ‘18)
   Klein, A. J. Intolerance in the reign of Elizabeth, queen of England.
      (S ‘17)
   Laski, H. J. Studies in the problem of sovereignty. (S ‘17)
   Riddell, W. A. Rise of ecclesiastical control in Quebec. (S ‘17)

 Church and the hour. Scudder, V. D. (Jl ‘17)

 =Church architecture=
   Brunner, E. de S. New country church building. (N ‘17)
   Street, G: E. Unpublished notes and reprinted papers. (Je ‘17)

 =Church of England=
   Duncan-Jones, A. S. Ordered liberty. (Ja ‘18)
   Goudge, H: L., and others. Place of women in the church. (Ja ‘18)

 =Church work=
   Burr, A. R. Russell H. Conwell. (Mr ‘17)
   Federal council of the churches of Christ in America. Library of
      Christian cooperation. (Je ‘17)
   Gates, H. W. Recreation and the church. (F ‘18)

 =Cicero, Marcus Tullius=, 106-43 B.C.
   Taylor, H. Cicero, a sketch of his life and works. (Jl ‘17)

 Cinderella Jane. Cooke, M. B. (Je ‘17)

 Cinema murder. Oppenheim, E: P. (Jl ‘17)

 =Cities and towns, Ancient=
   Mitton, G. E. Lost cities of Ceylon. (S ‘17)

 =Citizenship=
   Allen, W: H. Universal training for citizenship and public service.
      (F ‘18)
   Ashley, R. L: New civics. (N ‘17)
   Bennion, M. Citizenship. (Ja ‘18)
   Weeks, A. D. Psychology of citizenship. (Je ‘17)

 City milk supply. Parker, H. N. (Jl ‘17)

 =City planning=
   American Institute of architects. City planning progress in the
      United States, 1917. (O ‘17)
   Bird, C: S., jr. Town planning for small communities. (Je ‘17)

 City worker’s world in America. Simkovitch, M. M. (S ‘17)

 =Civilization=
   Branford, B. Janus and Vesta. (S ‘17)
   Coit, S. Is civilization a disease? (Jl ‘17)

 Civilization of the ancient Egyptians. Bothwell-Gosse, A. (Je ‘17)

 Claimants to Constantinople. With Hazen, C: D., and others. Three peace
    congresses of the nineteenth century. (Je ‘17)

 Clammer and the submarine. Hopkins, W: J: (F ‘18)

 =Clark, Charles Edgar=, 1843-
   Clark, C: E. My fifty years in the navy. (D ‘17)

 =Classical dictionaries=
   Walters, H: B., ed. Classical dictionary of Greek and Roman
      antiquities, biography, geography, and mythology. (Ap ‘17)

 =Classical education=
   Jackson, W: W. Ingram Bywater. (N ‘17)
   Livingstone, R: W. Defence of classical education. (S ‘17)
   Shorey, P. Assault on humanism. (O ‘17)
   West, A. F., ed. Value of the classics. (F ‘18)

 Class-room method and management. Betts, G: H. (N ‘17)

 Cleek’s government cases. Hanshew, T: W. (My ‘17)

 =Clemens, Samuel Langhorne (Mark Twain, pseud.)= 1835-1910
   Clemens, S: L. Mark Twain’s letters. (Ja ‘18)

 Cleomenes. Billings, M. W. (N ‘17)

 =Cleveland=
   =Public schools=
     Lutz, R. R. Wage earning and education. (My ‘17)

 =Clothing=
   Izor, E. P. Costume design and home planning. (Ap ‘17)
   Kinne, H., and Cooley, A. M. Clothing and health. (Je ‘17)

 Coburn, Mrs Fordyce. See Abbott, E. H.

 =Coinage=
   Macdonald, G: Evolution of coinage. (Jl ‘17)

 Collected works. Pearse, P. H. (O ‘17)

 Collecting old glass. Yoxall, Sir J. H: (Je ‘17)

 Collecting old miniatures. Yoxall, Sir J. H: (Je ‘17)

 =Collectors and collecting=
   Bosanko, W. Collecting old lustre ware. (S ‘17)
   Courville, E. H., comp. Autograph prices current. (S ‘17)
   Yoxall, Sir J. H: Collecting old glass. (Je ‘17)
   Yoxall, Sir J. H: Collecting old miniatures. (Je ‘17)

 =College students=
   Foster, W: T. Should students study? (Ap ‘17)

 =College verse=
   Schnittkind, H: T:, ed. Poets of the future. (Je ‘17)

 =Colleges and universities=
   Allen, W: H. Self-surveys by colleges and universities. (Ja ‘18)
   Cornell Era. Above Cayuga’s waters. (Mr ‘17)
   Hawthorne, H. Rambles in old college towns. (D ‘17)

 =Collyer, Robert=, 1823-1912
   Holmes, J: H. Life and letters of Robert Collyer, 1823-1912. (F ‘18)

 Colonial tariff policy of France. Girault, A. (Jl ‘17)

 Colonial Virginia. Stanard, M. M. P. (Ja ‘18)

 =Color prints=
   Stewart, B. On collecting Japanese colour-prints. (Ja ‘18)

 Comedies of words. Schnitzler, A. (S ‘17)

 Coming, The. Snaith, J: C. (N ‘17)

 Coming democracy. Fernau, H. (O ‘17)

 =Commerce=
   Hauser, H. Germany’s commercial grip on the world. (Je ‘17)

 =Commercial law=
   Crane, U. E. Business law for business men. (Je ‘17)

 Commercialization of leisure. Sizer, J. P. (Ja ‘18)

 =Commission for relief in Belgium=
   Kellogg, C. Women of Belgium. (Je ‘17)

 Commonwealth at war. Pollard, A. F: (F ‘18)

 Commonwealth of nations. Curtis, L., ed. (Ag ‘17)

 Community. Maciver, R. M. (S ‘17)

 Community center activities. Perry, C. A. (My ‘17)

 Community drama. MacKaye, P. W. (N ‘17)

 Community theatre in theory and practice. Burleigh, L. (D ‘17)

 =Competition=
   Montague, G. H. Business competition and the law. (My ‘17)
   Reed, H. B. Morals of monopoly and competition. (S ‘17)
   Stevens, W: H. S. Unfair competition. (S ‘17)

 Complaint of peace. Erasmus, D. (Ag ‘17)

 Complete handbook for the sanitary troops of the U.S. army and navy,
    and national guard and naval militia. Mason, C: F. (N ‘17)

 Complete poetical works. Hay, J: (N ‘17)

 Complete U.S. infantry guide. (N ‘17)

 Comptes rendus of observation and reasoning. Buchanan, J: Y. (Jl ‘17)

 =Compulsory education=
   Abbott, E., and Breckinridge, S. P. Truancy and non-attendance in the
      Chicago schools. (Je ‘17)

 Comrades in arms. Millet, P. (Je ‘17)

 Concerning painting. Cox, K. (N ‘17)

 Conclusive peace. Taylor, C: F. (Ap ‘17)

 Concordance to the works of Horace. Cooper, L., ed. (O ‘17)

 =Concrete construction=
   Fallon, J: T., ed. How to make concrete garden furniture and
      accessories. (F ‘18)

 Conditions of labor in American industries. Lauck, W: J., and
    Sydenstricker, E. (Je ‘17)

 =Conduct of life=
   Barton, B. More power to you. (D ‘17)
   Crane, F. Christmas and the year round. (F ‘18)
   Crane, F. Looking glass. (Jl ‘17)
   Fairbanks, D. Laugh and live. (O ‘17)
   Gulick, L. H. Dynamic of manhood. (Ja ‘18)
   Kingman, H: Faith of a middle-aged man. (F ‘18)

 Confessions of a caricaturist. Herford, O. (O ‘17)

 Confessions of a little man during great days. Andreieff, L. N. (My
    ‘17)

 Confessions of a social secretary. Lowe, C. M. (Mr ‘17)

 Confessions of a war correspondent. Shepherd, W: G. (Ag ‘17)

 Confessions of a young man. Moore, G: (Jl ‘17)

 Confusion of tongues. Frothingham, P. R. (O ‘17)

 =Conjuring=
   Elbiquet, pseud. Supplementary magic. (Jl ‘17)

 Conquest. Wadsley, O. (D ‘17)

 =Conservation of resources=
   Ely, R: T., and others. Foundations of national prosperity. (F ‘18)

 =Constantinople=
   Hazen, C: D., and others. Three peace congresses of the nineteenth
      century. (Je ‘17)

   Woolf, L. S. Future of Constantinople. (D ‘17)

 Constitution of Canada in its history and practical working. Riddell,
    W: R. (S ‘17)

 =Constitutional conventions=
   Hoar, R. S. Constitutional conventions. (D ‘17)

 =Constitutional law=
   Guthrie, W: D. Magna carta. (Ap ‘17)

 =Constitutions, State=
   McClure, W. M. State constitution-making. (Jl ‘17)

 Contemporary drama of England. Dickinson, T: H. (Mr ‘17)

 Contemporary drama of Ireland. Boyd, E. A: (Mr ‘17)

 Contemporary politics in the Far East. Hornbeck, S. K. (F ‘18)

 Contemporary Russian composers. Montagu-Nathan, M. (Jl ‘17)

 Contemporary short story. Baker, H. T. (Ap ‘17)

 Contingency of the laws of nature. Boutroux, E. (F ‘18)

 Contracts, specifications and engineering relations. Mead, D. W. (Jl
    ‘17)

 =Conversation=
   Kleiser, G. Talks on talking. (Je ‘17)

 =Conveying machinery=
   Zimmer, G: F: Mechanical handling and storing of material. (Jl ‘17)

 =Conwell, Russell Herman.= 1842-
   Burr, A. R. Russell H. Conwell. (Mr ‘17)

 =Cookery=
   Bradley, A. Candy cook book. (Je ‘17)
   East, A. M. Kitchenette cookery. (Jl ‘17)
   Fish, A. Z. American Red cross text-book on home dietetics. (Je ‘17)
   Green, L. Effective small home. (My ‘17)
   Green, M., pseud. Better meals for less money. (Je ‘17)
   Hill, J. Cake, pastry and dessert dishes. (O ‘17)
   Howard, M. W. Practical cookbook. (Je ‘17)
   Kirk, A. G. Practical food economy. (S ‘17)
   Mackay, L. G. Housekeeper’s apple book. (F ‘18)
   Murphy, C: J. American Indian corn (maize). (F ‘18)
   Norton, J. Y. Mrs Norton’s cook-book. (Jl ‘17)
   Stern, F., and Spitz, G. T. Food for the worker. (Jl ‘17)
   Wellman, M. T. Food study. (Je ‘17)
     _See also_ Canning and preserving; Diet; Food

 =Cookery, Chinese=
   Chan, S. W. Chinese cook book. (D ‘17)

 Co-operative credit for the United States. Wolff, H: W: (N ‘17)

 Cooperative marketing. Cumberland, W: W. (Ja ‘18)

 Co-operative movement in Russia. Bubnoff, I. V. (O ‘17)

 =Cooperstown, N.Y.=
   Birdsall, R. Story of Cooperstown. (O ‘17)

 =Corn=
   Brooks, E. C. Story of corn and the westward migration. (Je ‘17)
   Murphy, C: J. American Indian corn (maize). (F ‘18)

 Corporate organization and management. Conyngton, T: (N ‘17)

 =Corporation law=
   Stetson, J. F. L., and others. Some legal phases of corporate
      financing, reorganization and regulation. (S ‘17)

 =Corporations=
   Bennett, R. J. Corporation accounting. (S ‘17)
   Conyngton, T: Corporate organization and management. (N ‘17)
   Davis, J. S. Essays in the earlier history of American corporations.
      (S ‘17)
   Gerstenberg, C: W., and Johnson, W. S. Organization and control. (N
      ‘17)

 =Cost accounting=
   Church, A. H. Manufacturing costs and accounts. (Jl ‘17)
   Parkhurst, F: A: Predetermination of true costs and relatively true
      selling prices. (Je ‘17)
   Scovell, C. H. Cost accounting and burden application. (Ap ‘17)

 =Cost of living=
   Gibbs, W. S. Minimum cost of living. (Je ‘17)
   Howe, F: C. High cost of living. (Ja ‘18)

 =Costa Rica=
   Calvert, A. C. and P. P. Year of Costa Rican natural history. (Jl
      ‘17)

 =Costanzo, Mrs Gabrielle Margaret (Campbell).= See Bowen, M., pseud.

 =Costume=
   Burbank, E. Woman as decoration. (Ja ‘18)
   Fales, J. Dressmaking. (My ‘17)
   Izor, E. P. Costume design and home planning. (Ap ‘17)

 =Cotton=
   Morgan, J. O. Field crops for the cotton-belt. (N ‘17)

 Country child. Showerman, G. (D ‘17)

 =Country churches=
   Brunner, E. de S. New country church building. (N ‘17)

 =Country life=
   Bowman, J. C., ed. Promise of country life. (Ap ‘17)
   Kirkpatrick, M. G. Rural school from within. (S ‘17)
   McMahon, J: R. Success in the suburbs. (Jl ‘17)
   Young men’s Christian associations. International committee.
      Balancing country life. (Ja ‘18)
   Young men’s Christian associations. International committee. Home of
      the countryside. (S ‘17)

 Country weekly. Bing, P. C. (F ‘18)

 Counts of Gruyère. De Koven, A. (Ap ‘17)

 =County government=
   Gilbertson, H: S. County—the “dark continent” of American politics.
      (O ‘17)

 =Court rules=
   Rosenbaum, S: Rule-making authority in the English supreme court. (N
      ‘17)

 =Courts=
   Wells, F: DeW. Man in court. (Je ‘17)

 Cousin Julia. Flandrau, G. H. (O ‘17)

 Cow and milk book. Guest, F. (My ‘17)

 =Cranch, Christopher Pearse, 1813-1892=
   Cranch, C. P. Life and letters of Christopher Pearse Cranch. (My ‘17)

 Cream of the jest. Cabell, J. B. (D ‘17)

 Created legend. Sologub, F., pseud. (S ‘17)

 Creative criticism. Spingarn, J. E. (Jl ‘17)

 Creative intelligence. Dewey, J:, and others. (Mr ‘17)

 Creative involution. Williams, C. L. (Ap ‘17)

 Creative will. Wright, W. H. (Ap ‘17)

 Creators of decorative styles. Dyer, W. A. (D ‘17)

 =Crèvecœur, Michel Guillaume Saint-Jean de=, 1735-1813
   Mitchell, J. P. St Jean de Crèvecoeur. (Jl ‘17)

 Crime, The, by a German. (F ‘18)

 =Crime and criminals=
   Ferri, E. Criminal sociology. (O ‘17)
   Healy, W: Mental conflicts and misconduct. (Jl ‘17)
   Lewis, B. G. Offender and his relations to law and society. (My ‘17)
   Mutzenberg, C: G. Kentucky’s famous feuds and tragedies. (N ‘17)
   Scandlin, H. W. Wicked John Goode. (Jl ‘17)

 Crimes of charity. Bercovici, K. (Jl ‘17)

 Criminal sociology. Ferri, E. (O ‘17)

 =Criticism=
   Spingarn, J. E. Creative criticism. (Jl ‘17)

 Critique of the theory of evolution. Morgan, T: H. (My ‘17)

 =Crocheting=
   Klickmann, F. Beautiful crochet on household linen. (Je ‘17)

 Cross at the front. Tiplady, T: (Ja ‘18)

 =Croswell, James Greenleaf=, 1852-1915
   Croswell, J. G. Letters and writings. (N ‘17)

 Cruise of the Corwin. Muir, J: (Ja ‘18)

 “Crumps.” Keene, L: (Ja ‘18)

 Crystal age. Hudson, W: H: (Ap ‘17)

 =Cuba=
   =History=
     Wright, I. A. Early history of Cuba, 1492-1586. (Ap ‘17)

 Culture and diseases of the sweet pea. Taubenhaus, J. J. (N ‘17)

 =Cumberland, Richard=, 1732-1811
   Williams, S. T: Richard Cumberland. (Ja ‘18)

 =Currency.= See Money

 =Custer, George Armstrong.= 1839-1876
   Dellenbaugh, F: S: George Armstrong Custer. (Mr ‘17)

 Cycle of spring. Tagore, R. (My ‘17)

 Cycles of personal belief. Forbes, W. E. (Jl ‘17)


 =Dairying=
   Eckles, C. H:, and Warren, G: F: Dairy farming. (Ag ‘17)
   Guest, F. Cow and milk book. (My ‘17)

 =Daly, Augustin=, 1838-1899
   Daly, J. F. Life of Augustin Daly. (D ‘17)

 =Dams=
   Creager, W: P. Engineering for masonry dams. (D ‘17)

 Dancing hours. Ohlson, H. (Ap ‘17)

 Dandelions. Cade, C. T. (S ‘17)

 Danish West Indies. Westergaard, W. C. (O ‘17)

 =Dante Alighieri=, 1265-1321
   Moore, E: Studies in Dante, series 4. (S ‘17)
   Zahm, J: A. Great inspirers. (Je ‘17)

 Dark Rosaleen. Blundell, M. E. (Ag ‘17)

 Dark star. Chambers, R. W: (Jl ‘17)

 Daughter of the morning. Gale, Z. (Ja ‘18)

 Daughter of the Puritans. Creevey, C. A. (My ‘17)

 =Davies, William Henry=, 1870-
   Davies, W: H: Autobiography of a supertramp. (Je ‘17)

 =Davis, Henry Winter=, 1817-1865
   Steiner, B. C. Life of Henry Winter Davis. (My ‘17)

 =Davis, Jerome Dean=, 1838-1910
   Davis, J. M. Davis, soldier missionary. (Ap ‘17)

 =Davis, Richard Harding=, 1864-1916
   Davis, R: H. Adventures and letters of Richard Harding Davis. (Ja
      ‘18)

 Day and night stories. Blackwood, A. (O ‘17)

 Days of Alkibiades. Robinson, C. E: (Je ‘17)

 Days out. Woodbridge, E. (Ja ‘18)

 =Death=
   MacKenna, R. W: Adventure of death. (O ‘17)
   Maeterlinck, M. Light beyond. (Ja ‘18)
   Whiting, L. Adventure beautiful. (Ja ‘18)

 Death of a nation. Yohannan, A. (Ap ‘17)

 =Debates=
   Beman, L. T., comp. Selected articles on prohibition of the liquor
      traffic. (Ap ‘17)
   Fanning, C. E., comp. Selected articles on capital punishment. (Ap
      ‘17)
   Reely, M. K., comp. Selected articles on immigration. (Mr ‘17)
   Reely, M. K., comp. Selected articles on minimum wage. (Mr ‘17)
   Van Valkenburgh, A., comp. Selected articles on military training in
      schools and colleges. (Mr ‘17)
   Van Valkenburgh, A., comp. Selected articles on national defense. (Ap
      ‘17)

 =Debating=
   Foster, W: T. Argumentation and debating. (D ‘17)
   Phelps, E. M., ed. University debaters’ annual. (N ‘17)
   Shurter, E. D. How to debate. (D ‘17)

 Decline of the Chartist movement. Slosson, P. W: (My ‘17)

 =Decoration and ornament=
   Paris, W: F. Decorative elements in architecture. (Jl ‘17)

 Decorative elements in architecture. Paris, W: F. (Jl ‘17)

 =Defective and delinquent classes=
   Barton, G: E: Re-education. (Ja ‘18)

 Defence of classical education. Livingstone, R: W. (S ‘17)

 Defence of idealism. Sinclair, M. (D ‘17)

 Defenders of democracy. (F ‘18)

 Definite object. Farnol, J. (Je ‘17)

 =Democracy=
   Gulliver, J. H. Studies in democracy. (My ‘17)
   Macdonald, J. A. North American idea. (N ‘17)
   Mills, W. T: Democracy or despotism. (Jl ‘17)
   Sims, N. L. Ultimate democracy and its making. (N ‘17)
   Tufts, J. H. Our democracy. (F ‘18)

 Deportation of women and girls from Lille. (My ‘17)

 Derelict. Bottome, P. (Jl ‘17)

 Descriptive mineralogy. Bayley, W: S. (F ‘18)

 Design of railway location. Williams, C. C. (S ‘17)

 Desk-book of twenty-five thousand words frequently mispronounced.
    Vizetelly, F. H. (Jl ‘17)

 Destiny. Seton, J. (F ‘18)

 Destruction of merchant ships under international law. Smith, Sir F: E.
    (N ‘17)

 Detection of the common food adulterants. Bruce, E. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Development of China. Latourette, K. S. (Ap ‘17)

 Devil’s own. Parrish, R. (F ‘18)

 Diaries; v. 1; Youth. Tolstoi, L. N., count. (F ‘18)

 Diary of a nation. Martin, E: S. (D ‘17)

 Diary of an expectant mother. Hirsch, C. (O ‘17)

 Diaz, Porfirio, 1830-1915

 Hannay, D: Diaz. (Mr ‘17)

 =Dictionaries=
   Freese, J. H. New pocket dictionary of the English and Russian
      languages. (Jl ‘17)
   Jones, D. English pronouncing dictionary. (S ‘17)
   Patterson, A. M. German-English dictionary for chemists. (Jl ‘17)
   Vizetelly, F. H. Desk-book of twenty-five thousand words frequently
      mispronounced. (Jl ‘17)
   Walters, H: B., ed. Classical dictionary of Greek and Roman
      antiquities, biography, geography, and mythology. (Ap ‘17)

 =Diet=
   Bayliss. W: M. Physiology of food and economy in diet. (N ‘17)
   Fish, A. Z. American Red cross text-book on home dietetics. (Je ‘17)
   Strouse, S., and Perry, M. A. Food for the sick. (S ‘17)

 =Dilke, Sir Charles Wentworth, 2d bart=, 1843-1911
   Gwynn, S. L., and Tuckwell, G. M. Life of the Rt. Hon. Sir Charles W.
      Dilke. (D ‘17)

 =Dioneo=, pseud. See Shklovskii, I. V.

 =Diplomacy=
   Satow, Sir E. M. Guide to diplomatic practice. (Jl ‘17)

 Diplomat. Fleming, G. (Jl ‘17)

 Diplomatic days. O’Shaughnessy, E. L. (Ja ‘18)

 Diplomatic documents relating to the outbreak of the European war.
    Scott, J. B., ed. (Je ‘17)

 =Directories=
   Newspaper press directory and advertisers’ guide. (S ‘17)
   Winslow, H. M., ed. Official register and directory of women’s clubs
      in America. (Ag ‘17)

 Discovery. Gregory, R: A. (Ap ‘17)

 Disease in milk. Straus, N. (Ag ‘17)

 Diseases of occupation and vocational hygiene. Kober, G: M., and
    Hanson, W: C., eds. (Ap ‘17)

 Distributive Justice. Ryan, J: A. (Ap ‘17)

 Diversity of creatures. Kipling, R. (Je ‘17)

 Divinations and Creation. Holley, H. (Je ‘17)

 Do we need a new idea of God. Reeman, E. H: (N ‘17)

 Doctor Luther. Freytag, G. (Je ‘17)

 Doctor’s diary in Damaraland. Walker, H. F. B. (N ‘17)

 =Dogs, Legends and stories of=
   Foote, J: T. Dumb-Bell of Brookfield. (Je ‘17)
   London, J. Jerry of the islands. (My ‘17)
   Smith, B. Only a dog. (My ‘17)

 Doing my bit for Ireland. Skinnider, M. (Ag ‘17)

 Dollars and cents. Terhune, A. P. (Jl ‘17)

 Dolores of the Sierra. Haslett, H. H. (Ja ‘18)

 Domestic architecture. Robinson, L. E. (O ‘17)

 =Domestic science.= See Home economics

 Domestic service. (O ‘17)

 Dominie Dean. Butler, E. P. (O ‘17)

 Dominie dismissed. Neill, A. S. (Jl ‘17)

 Dormie one. Porter, H. E. (D ‘17)

 Do’s and dont’s in the army. Hersey, H. (Ja ‘18)

 Doubloons—and the girl. Forbes, J: M. (Je ‘17)

 Douglas romance. Sladen, D. B. W. (My ‘17)

 =Drama=
   Boyd, E. A: Contemporary drama of Ireland. (Mr ‘17)
   Dickinson, T: H. Contemporary drama of England. (Mr ‘17)
   Hamilton, C. M. Problems of the playwright. (D ‘17)
   Mackay, C. D. Little theatre in the United States. (D ‘17)
   MacKaye, P. W. Community drama. (N ‘17)
   Smith, J: T. Parish theatre. (D ‘17)

 =Dramas=
   Barker, G. Three short plays. (F ‘18)
   Benavente y Martínez, J. Plays. (O ‘17)
   Betts, F. Saga plays. (O ‘17)
   Clark, B. H., ed. Masterpieces of modern Spanish drama. (Jl ‘17)
   Cochran, E. O. Wilderness rose. (Je ‘17)
   Colum, P. Mogu the wanderer. (Mr ‘17)
   Dunsany, E: J: M. D. P., 18th baron. Plays of gods and men. (Je ‘17)
   Fitzmaurice, G: Five plays. (O ‘17)
   Godfrey, T. Prince of Parthia. (N ‘17)
   Gogol, N. V. Inspector-general. (My ‘17)
   Greene, K. C. Little boy out of the wood. (My ‘17)
   Guimerá, A. La pecadora (Daniela). (My ‘17)
   Hare, W. B. White Christmas. (F ‘18)
   Haslett, H. H. Dolores of the Sierra. (Ja ‘18)
   Howard, K. Two plays, and a rhapsody. (Je ‘17)
   Kamban, G. Hadda Padda. (F ‘18)
   Kennedy, C: R. Rib of the man. (My ‘17)
   MacKaye, P. W. Canterbury pilgrims. (Je ‘17)
   MacKaye, P. W. Sinbad the sailor. (S ‘17)
   Macmillan, M. L. More short plays. (Ja ‘18)
   Marks, J. A: Three Welsh plays. (Ap ‘17)
   Masefield, J: Locked chest and The sweeps of ninety-eight. (Ap ‘17)
   Massey. E: Plots and playwrights. (N ‘17)
   Ostrovskii, A. N. Plays. (D ‘17)
   Parker, L: N. Aristocrat. (Je ‘17)
   Quinn, A. H., ed. Representative American plays. (My ‘17)
   Schnitzler, A. Comedies of words. (S ‘17)
   Sigurjónsson, J. Modern Icelandic plays. (Ap ‘17)
   Stepniak, pseud. New convert. (Je ‘17)
   Stimson, F: J. Light of Provence. (N ‘17)
   Symons, A. Tristan and Iseult. (F ‘18)
   Tagore, Sir R. Cycle of spring. (My ‘17)
   Tagore, Sir R. Sacrifice. (F ‘18)
   Takeda Izumo. Pine-tree. (My ‘17)
   Torrence, R. Granny Maumee. (N ‘17)
   Vanzype, G. Mother Nature. (N ‘17)
   Walker, S. Portmanteau plays. (O ‘17)
   Watts, M. S. Three short plays. (Mr ‘17)
   Wiers-Jenssen, H. Anne Pedersdotter. (O ‘17)
   Wilde, P. Unseen host. (O ‘17)

 Dramatic index. See Faxon, F: W., ed. Annual magazine subject-index,
    1916. (My ‘17)

 =Dramatists=
   Moses, M. J. American dramatist. (N ‘17)

 =Drawing=
   Bowers, R. S. Drawing and design for craftsmen. (Ap ‘17)
   Dale, R. B. Drawing for builders. (Jl ‘17)

 Dreamers. Garrison, T. (N ‘17)

 =Dressmaking=
   Fales, J. Dressmaking. (My ‘17)

 =Drill, Military=
   Robbins, E: J., comp. Universal drill manual. (Ag ‘17)

 Drowsy. Mitchell, J: A. (O ‘17)

 Druid path. Ryan, M. E. (Mr ‘17)

 Dumb-Bell of Brookfield. Foote, J: T. (Je ‘17)

 =Dunsany, Edward John Moreton Drax Plunkett, 18th baron=, 1878-
   Bierstadt, E: H. Dunsany the dramatist. (Ap ‘17)

 Dwelling houses of Charleston, South Carolina. Smith, A. R. H. and D.
    E. H. (Ja ‘18)

 Dwelling-place of light. Churchill, W. (N ‘17)

 =Dyes and dyeing=
   Higgins, S. H. Dyeing in Germany and America. (O ‘17)

 Dynamic of manhood. Gulick, L. H. (Ja ‘18)


 Earliest man. Migeod, F: W: H. (D ‘17)

 Earliest voyages round the world, 1519-1617. Alexander, P. F: (F ‘18)

 Early diplomatic relations between the United States and Japan. Treat,
    P. J. (F ‘18)

 Early European history. Webster, H. (D ‘17)

 Early history of Cuba, 1492-1586. Wright, I. A. (Ap ‘17)

 Early life of Robert Southey, 1774-1803. Haller, W: (F ‘18)

 Early narratives of the Northwest, 1634-1669. Kellogg, L. P., ed. (Ap
    ‘17)

 Early Philadelphia. Lippincott, H. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Early philosophical works. Diderot, D. (N ‘17)

 East o’ the sun and west o’ the moon. Dasent, Sir G: W. (My ‘17)

 =Eastern question=
   Lewin, P. E. German road to the East. (S ‘17)

 =Eastern question (Balkan)=
   Abbott, G: F: Turkey, Greece and the great powers. (My ‘17)
   Duff, J. D., ed. Russian realities and problems. (Jl ‘17)
   Gibbons, H. A. Reconstruction of Poland and the Near East. (O ‘17)
   Hazen, C: D., and others. Three peace congresses of the nineteenth
      century. (Je ‘17)
   Marriott, J: A. R. Eastern question. (O ‘17)
   Taylor, A. H. E. Future of the southern Slavs. (Ja ‘18)

 =Eastern question (Far East)=
   Hornbeck, S. K. Contemporary politics in the Far East. (F ‘18)

 Eastern railroad. Bradlee, F. B. C. (Ja ‘18)

 Echo of voices. Curie, R: (Jl ‘17)

 =Economic conditions=
   Chapin, F. S. Historical introduction to social economy. (D ‘17)

 Economic development of modern Europe. Ogg, F: A. (N ‘17)

 Economic moralism. Smith, J. H. (Ap ‘17)

 Economic problems of peace after war. Scott, W: R. (F ‘18)

 =Economics=
   Ely, R: T., and others. Outlines of economics. (Ap ‘17)
   Fetter, F: A. Economics, v. 2. (My ‘17)
   Grunzel, J. Economic protectionism. (Jl ‘17)
   Laughlin, J. L. Latter-day problems. (Mr ‘17)
   Ryan, J: A. Distributive justice. (Ap ‘17)
   Smart, W: Second thoughts of an economist. (Je ‘17)

 Edith Bonham. Foote, M. (Ap ‘17)

 =Education=
   Bourne, R. S. Education and living. (Je ‘17)
   Rugg, H. O. Statistical methods applied to education. (Ja ‘18)
   Smith, W. R. Introduction to educational sociology. (S ‘17)
   Thwing, C: F. Education according to some modern masters. (Je ‘17)

   =England=
     Badley, J: H. Education after the war. (O ‘17)
   =India=
     Benton, A. H. Indian moral instruction and caste problems. (S ‘17)
     Hindu mind training. (S ‘17)
   =United States=
     Moore, E. C. Fifty years of American education. (F ‘18)
   _See also_ Rural schools

 =Education, Classical.= See Classical education

 =Education, Compulsory.= See Compulsory education

 =Education, Elementary=
   =Occupations and busy work=
     Dobbs, E. V. Illustrative handwork for elementary school subjects.
        (N ‘17)

 =Education, Higher=
   Burnet, J: Higher education and the war. (D ‘17)
   Thwing, C: F. Training of men for the world’s future. (N ‘17)

 =Education, Religious.= See Religious education

 =Education, Secondary=
   Davis. C. O. Public secondary education. (S ‘17)
   Smith, F. W. High school. (Ja ‘18)
   Snedden, D: S: Problems of secondary education. (Jl ‘17)

 =Education, Technical.= See Technical education

 =Education of children=
   Stoner. W. S. Manual of natural education. (My ‘17)

 Education of the young in sex hygiene. Willson, R. N. (Je ‘17)

 =Education of women=
   Bennett, H. M. Women and work. (Je ‘17)

 Educational bearings of modern psychology. Meredith, C. M. (Je ‘17)

 Educational psychology. Gordon, K. (Ja ‘18)

 Educational tests and measurements. Monroe, W. S., and others. (Ja ‘18)

 Effective small home. Green, L. (My ‘17)

 =Efficiency, Industrial=
   Jones, E: D: Administration of industrial enterprises. (My ‘17)
   Woods, C. E. Unified accounting methods for industrials. (Jl ‘17)

 Egotism in German philosophy. Santayana, G: (Ag ‘17)

 =Egypt=
   =Antiquities=
     Mace, A. C., and Winlock, H. E. Tomb of Senebtisi at Lisht. (D ‘17)
   =Civilization=
     Bothwell-Gosse, A. Civilization of the ancient Egyptians. (Je ‘17)
   =Government=
     Wilson, Sir C: R. Chapters from my official life. (Je ‘17)

 Egyptian colloquial Arabic. Gairdner, W: H: T. (O ‘17)

 1816-1916; one hundred years of savings banking. Robinson, E: L. (Ja
    ‘18)

 =El Dorado=
   Zahm, J: A. Quest of El Dorado. (Ja ‘18)

 =Electric batteries=
   Austin, F. E. Examples in battery engineering. (N ‘17)

 =Electric currents=
   Steinmetz, C: P. Theory and calculation of electric circuits. (D ‘17)

 =Electric currents, Alternating=
   Magnusson, C. E: Alternating currents. (Jl ‘17)

 =Electric engineering=
   Brown, H. W. Electrical equipment. (Jl ‘17)

 =Electric machinery=
   Croft, T. W. Electrical machinery. (F ‘18)

 =Electric measurements=
   Farmer, F. M. Electrical measurements. (O ‘17)

 =Electric railroads=
   Dover, A. T. Electric traction. (O ‘17)

 =Electric waves=
   Miessner, B: F. Radiodynamics. (Je ‘17)

 =Electric wire and wiring=
   Cook, A. L. Interior wiring: and systems for electric light and power
      service. (Je ‘17)
   Croft, T. W. Wiring for light and power. (Ag ‘17)

 Electrical equipment. Brown, H. W. (Jl ‘17)

 =Electricity=
   Comstock, D. F., and Troland, L. T. Nature of matter and electricity.
      (S ‘17)

 =Electrochemistry=
   Hering, C., and Getman, F: H. Standard table of electrochemical
      equivalents and their derivatives. (Ja ‘18)

 =Electrons=
   Millikan, R. A. Electron. (F ‘18)

 Elements of hydraulics. Slocum, S. E. (S ‘17)

 Elements of industrial chemistry. Rogers. A., ed. (Jl ‘17)

 Elements of international law. Davis, G: B. (Je ‘17)

 Elements of military sketching and map reading. Barnes J: B. (Ag ‘17)

 =Elephants, Legends and stories of=
   Gautier, J. Memoirs of a white elephant. (Ap ‘17)

 Eleven poems. Darí-o, R. (Je ‘17)

 =Eliot, George, pseud. (Mrs Mary Ann Evans [Lewes] Cross)= 1819-1880
   Berle, L. W. George Eliot and Thomas Hardy. (Ja ‘18)

 Elizabeth Bess. Scott, E. (D ‘17)

 =Elocution=
   Bassett, L. E. Handbook of oral reading. (Je ‘17)

 Emancipation of the American city. Arndt, W. T. (O ‘17)

 =Emden (raider)=
   Mücke, H. von. The “Emden.” (Jl ‘17)

 Empire and the future. (Ap ‘17)

 =Employers’ liability=
   Blanchard, R. H. Liability and compensation insurance. (D ‘17)

 Empty house. (O ‘17)

 Enchanted hearts. Aldrich, D. (Ja ‘18)

 Enchantment. Thurston, E. T. (Je ‘17)

 =Encyclopædia Britannica=
   Wright, W. H. Misinforming a nation. (Je ‘17)

 Encyclopædia of religion and ethics, v. 9. Hastings, J., and others,
    eds. (F ‘18)

 End of the flight. Kline, B. (My ‘17)

 Enforced peace. League to enforce peace. (Ap ‘17)

 Enforcement of international law through municipal law in the United
    States. Wright, P. Q. (Jl ‘17)

 =Engineering=
   Karapetoff, V. Engineering applications of higher mathematics. (Jl
      ‘17)
   =Bibliography=
     Sypherd, W. O. Bibliography on “English for engineers.” (O ‘17)
   =Contracts and specifications=
     Mead, D. W. Contracts, specifications and engineering relations.
        (Jl ‘17)
   =Tables, calculations, etc.=
     “Mechanical World” pocket diary and year book for 1917. (Je ‘17)

 Engineering analysis of a mining share. Pickering, J: C. (Je ‘17)

 =Engineering education=
   Aydelotte, F., ed. English and engineering. (Je ‘17)

 Engineering for masonry dams. Creager, W: P. (D ‘17)

 =Engineering law=
   Mead, D. W. Contracts, specifications and engineering relations. (Jl
      ‘17)

 Engineering of power plants. Fernald, R. H., and Orrok, G: A. (Jl ‘17)

 =England=
   =Description and travel=
     Firth, J: B: Highways and byways in Nottinghamshire. (My ‘17)
   =History=
     Chesterton, G. K. Short history of England. (D ‘17)
   =Social life and customs=
     Ditchfield, P: H. England of Shakespeare. (Jl ‘17)
     Powell, C. L. English domestic relations, 1487-1653. (N ‘17)

 England and the war (1914-1915). Chevrillon, A. (Ag ‘17)

 England from the earliest times to the Great charter. Stone, G. (Ap
    ‘17)

 England in the Mediterranean [1603-1713]. Corbett, J. S. (Jl ‘17)

 England of Shakespeare. Ditchfield, P: H. (Jl ‘17)

 England’s debt to India. Lajpat Raya. (F ‘18)

 English and engineering. Aydelotte, F., ed. (Je ‘17)

 English biography. Dunn, W. H. (My ‘17)

 English domestic relations, 1487-1653. Powell, C. L. (N ‘17)

 =English drama=
   Dickinson, T: H. Contemporary drama of England. (Mr ‘17)

 =English fiction=
   Scarborough, D. Supernatural in modern English fiction. (D ‘17)

 English-Italian phrase book for social workers. Waller, E. (Ap ‘17)

 =English language=
   Hall, J: L. English usage. (D ‘17)
   Johnson, B. Well of English and the bucket. (Ja ‘18)
   =Composition=
     Canby, H: S., and others. Facts, thought, and imagination. (D ‘17)
   =Dictionaries=
     Jones, D. English pronouncing dictionary. (S ‘17)
   =Study and teaching=
     Aydelotte, F., ed. English and engineering. (Je ‘17)
     Greenough, C. N., and Hersey, F. W. C. English composition. (O ‘17)
     Leonard, S. A. English composition as a social problem. (Je ‘17)
     Mahoney, J: J. Standards in English. (Ja ‘18)
     Ward, C: H. What is English? (Ja ‘18)
   =Terms and phrases=
     Kleiser, G. Fifteen thousand useful phrases. (Ja ‘18)

 =English letters=
   Coult, M., ed. Letters from many pens. (Jl ‘17)

 =English literature=
   Cambridge history of English literature. (Mr ‘17)
   Clark, J: S. Study of English and American writers. (Je ‘17)
   Hearn, L. Life and literature. (Ja ‘18)
   Long, W: J. Outlines of English and American literature. (Jl ‘17)
   Miller, E. L. English literature. (O ‘17)
   Scott, D. Men of letters. (Ag ‘17)
   Work, E. H. Bible in English literature. (Ja ‘18)
   Wyatt, E. F, Great companions. (Je ‘17)
   =Collections=
     Raleigh, Sir W. Sir Walter Raleigh: “the shepherd of the ocean.” (S
        ‘17)
   =Study and teaching=
     Aydelotte, F. Oxford stamp. (F ‘18)

 =English poetry=
   Coleridge, S. Evening in my library among the English poets. (Je ‘17)
   Watts-Dunton, W. T. Poetry and the Renascence of wonder. (Ap ‘17)
   =Collections=
     Annual of new poetry, 1917. (O ‘17)
     Nicholson, D. H. S., and Lee, A. H. E., eds. Oxford book of English
        mystical verse. (N ‘17)

 English-speaking peoples. Beer, G: L: (O ‘17)

 English synonymes. Crabb, G: (Je ‘17)

 English usage. Hall, J: L. (D ‘17)

 =Engravers=
   Carrington, F. Engravers and etchers. (N ‘17)

 Enlightenment of Paulina. Tompkins, E. W. (Ja ‘18)

 Equipment for the farm and the farmstead. Ramsower, H. C. (Jl ‘17)

 =Escapes=
   Hopkins, T. Romance of escapes. (N ‘17)

 Eskimo Robinson Crusoe. Snell, R. J. (D ‘17)

 =Essays=
   Bosanquet, B. Social and international ideals. (O ‘17)
   Brooks, C: S. There’s pippins and cheese to come. (Ja ‘18)
   Clemens, S: L. What is man? (Jl ‘17)
   Eastman, M. Journalism versus art. (Je ‘17)
   Fowler, W: W. Essays in brief for war-time. (S ‘17)
   Gardiner, A. G. Pebbles on the shore. (O ‘17)
   Grant, A. On the wings of the morning. (F ‘18)
   Huneker, J. G. Unicorns. (O ‘17)
   James, W: On vital reserves. (Jl ‘17)
   Mabie, H. W. Fruits of the spirit. (My ‘17)
   Monahan, M. New adventures. (N ‘17)
   Paget, S. I sometimes think. (Jl ‘17)
   Pearson, F. B. Reveries of a schoolmaster. (My ‘17)
   Sherwood, M. P. Familiar ways. (N ‘17)
   Shestov, L. Penultimate words. (Ja ‘18)
   Shipley, A. E. Studies in insect life. (N ‘17)
   Symons, A. Figures of several centuries. (My ‘17)
   Tarleau, L. Y. Inn of disenchantment. (N ‘17)
   Turner, A. On falling in love. (S ‘17)
   Woodbridge, E. Days out. (Ja ‘18)

 Essays in orthodoxy. Quick, O. C. (Ja ‘18)

 Essays in the earlier history of American corporations. Davis, J. S. (S
    ‘17)

 Essays in war-time. Ellis, H. (Mr ‘17)

 Essentials of American constitutional law. Thorpe, F. N. (F ‘18)

 Essentials of philosophy. Sellars, R. W. (Ja ‘18)

 Establishing industrial schools. Smith, H. B. (Jl ‘17)

 =Esthetics=
   Wright, W. H. Creative will. (Ap ‘17)

 =Etchers=
   Carrington, F. Engravers and etchers. (N ‘17)

 Eternal husband. Dostoevskii, F. M. (Jl ‘17)

 =Ethics=
   Hastings, J., and others, eds. Encyclopædia of religion and ethics,
      v. 9. (F ‘18)

 =Ethics, Christian=
   Hyde, W: D. Best man I know. (N ‘17)

 =Eton college=
   Ainger, A. C. Memories of Eton sixty years ago. (Jl ‘17)

 =Eugenics=
   Bodart, G., and Kellogg, V. L. Losses of life in modern wars. (Ap
      ‘17)
   Castle, W: E. Genetics and eugenics. (Jl ‘17)

 =Europe=
   =Description and travel=
     Stiles, P. New footprints in old places. (Ja ‘18)
   =Economic conditions=
     Ogg, F: A. Economic development of modern Europe. (N ‘17)
   =History=
     Coolidge, A. C. Origins of the Triple alliance. (O ‘17)
     Emerton, E. Beginnings of modern Europe (1250-1450). (Ja ‘18)
     Hall, J. Our ancestors in Europe. (Ja ‘18)

     Hazen, C: D. Modern European history. (Mr ‘17)
     Holt, L. H., and Chilton, A. W. History of Europe from 1862 to
        1914. (F ‘18)
     Lipson, E. Europe in the nineteenth century. (Ap ‘17)
     Muir, R. Expansion of Europe. (O ‘17)
     Previté Orton, C: W: Outlines of medieval history. (Je ‘17)
     Thorndike, L. History of medieval Europe. (D ‘17)
     Webster, H. Early European history. (D ‘17)
   =Politics and government=
     Brailsford, H: N. League of nations. (My ‘17)
     Hill, D: J. Rebuilding of Europe. (D ‘17)
     Muir, R. Nationalism and internationalism. (Ap ‘17)
     Naumann, F. Central Europe. (Ap ‘17)
     Phillipps, L. M. Europe unbound. (Je ‘17)
     Stoddard, T. L. Present-day Europe. (S ‘17)

 =European war=, 1914-
   Allen, G: H:, and others. Great war. (Ag ‘17)
   Ayscough, J:, pseud. French windows. (O ‘17)
   Barry, W: World’s debate. (Ja ‘18)
   Beith, J: H. All in it. (D ‘17)
   Brandes, G. M. C. World at war. (Je ‘17)
   Brown, P. M. International realities. (Mr ‘17)
   Bryce, J. B., viscount. Some historical reflections on war, past and
      present. (Ag ‘17)
   Bryce, J. B., viscount, and others. War of democracy. (Mr ‘17)
   Buchan, J: Nelson’s History of the war. (F ‘18)
   Butler, N. M. World in ferment. (S ‘17)
   Chéradame, A. Pangerman plot unmasked. (Ap ‘17)
   Cook, Sir T. A. Mark of the beast. (My ‘17)
   Dampierre, L. M. M. J. de, marquis. German imperialism and
      international law. (Ag ‘17)
   Defenders of democracy. (F ‘18)
   Doyle, Sir A. C. History of the great war, v. 2. (O ‘17)
   Gleason, A. H. Our part in the great war. (Je ‘17)
   Halsey, F. W., comp. Balfour, Viviani and Joffre. (S ‘17)
   Hobhouse, L. T. Questions of war and peace. (Ap ‘17)
   K’ung Yuan Ku’ush. Judgment of the Orient. (My ‘17)
   Le Bon, G. Psychology of the great war. (Ag ‘17)
   Loti, P., pseud. War. (Jl ‘17)
   Magnus, L. A. Pros and cons in the great war. (Ja ‘18)
   Murray, A. M. Fortnightly history of the war, (Ja ‘18)
   Nyrop, K. Is war civilization? (Ja ‘18)
   Phillipps, L. M. Europe unbound. (Je ‘17)
   Pollard, A. F: Commonwealth at war. (F ‘18)
   Powell, E. A. Italy at war and the Allies in the west. (Je ‘17)
   Prüm, É. Pan-Germanism versus Christendom. (My ‘17)
   Richard, P. To the nations. (My ‘17)
   Roland, pseud. Future of militarism. (Ag ‘17)
   Told in the huts. (Ag ‘17)
   Van Dyke, H: Fighting for peace. (Ja ‘18)
   Ward, M. A. Towards the goal. (S ‘17)
   Wells, H. G: Italy, France and Britain at war. (Mr ‘17)
   Weyl, W. E: American world policies. (Ap ‘17)
   Wilson, W. Why we are at war. (Je ‘17)
   =Addresses, sermons, etc.=
     For the right. (O ‘17)
     Fosdick, H. E. Challenge of the present crisis. (Ja ‘18)
     Klein, F. Hope in suffering. (O ‘17)
     Loyson, P. H. Gods in the battle. (O ‘17)
     War and the spirit of youth. (D ‘17)
   _See also_ European war—Religious aspects
   =Aerial operations=
     McConnell, J. R. Flying for France. (Ap ‘17)
     Middleton, E. C. Way of the air. (F ‘18)
     Theta, pseud. War flying. (Ag ‘17)
     Winslow, C. D. With the French flying corps. (Je ‘17)
     Wood, E. Thrilling deeds of British airmen. (O ‘17)
   =Atrocities=
     Bryce, J. B., viscount. Treatment of Armenians in the Ottoman
        empire, 1915-1916. (Jl ‘17)
     Cammaerts, E. Through the iron bars. (O ‘17)
     Jörgensen, J. False witness. (My ‘17)
     Langenhove, F., van. Growth of a legend. (Ap ‘17)
     McClure, S: S. Obstacles to peace. (Ap ‘17)
     Mokveld, L. German fury in Belgium. (Jl ‘17)
     Reiss, R. A. Report upon the atrocities committed by the
        Austro-Hungarian army during the first invasion of Serbia. (Jl
        ‘17)
     Toynbee, A. J. German terror in Belgium. (Jl ‘17)
     Verdavaine, G. Pictures of ruined Belgium. (N ‘17)
   =Australasia=
     Fletcher, C. B. New Pacific. (Ag ‘17)
     Schuler, P. F. E. Australia in arms. (Ag ‘17)
   =Belgium=
     Gibson, H. Journal from our legation in Belgium. (N ‘17)
     Halasi, ö. Belgium under the German heel. (O ‘17)
   =Campaigns and battles=
     Beaverbrook, W: M. A., 1st baron. Canada in Flanders. (O ‘17)
     Buchan, J: Battle of the Somme. (Jl ‘17)
     Corbett-Smith, A. Retreat from Mons. (O ‘17)
     Dugard, H: Battle of Verdun. (Je ‘17)
     Essen, L. van der. Invasion and the war in Belgium. (N ‘17)
     Gibbs, P. Battles of the Somme. (Mr ‘17)
     Johnson, D. W. Topography and strategy in the war. (F ‘18)
     Liddell, R. S. On the Russian front. (Ap ‘17)
     Masefield, J: Old front line. (F ‘18)
     Pollard, H. B. C. Story of Ypres. (F ‘18)
     Price, J. M. Six months on the Italian front. (N ‘17)
     Retreat from Mons. (Ag ‘17)
     Robinson, H. P. Turning point. (N ‘17)
     Thomas, W. B. With the British on the Somme. (Ag ‘17)
     Whitton, F: E. Marne campaign. (Jl ‘17)
   =Canada=
     Currie, J: A. Red watch. (My ‘17)
     McClung, N. L. Next of kin. (Ja ‘18)
   =Cartoons=
     Raemaekers, L: Kultur in cartoons. (Ja ‘18)
   =Causes=
     Bang, J. P. Hurrah and hallelujah. (My ‘17)
     Bracq, J. C. Provocation of France. (Ap ‘17)
     Chitwood, O. P. Immediate causes of the great war. (Jl ‘17)
     Crime, The, by a German. (F ‘18)
     Jastrow, M. War and the Bagdad railway. (F ‘18)
     Johnson, D. W. Peril of Prussianism. (Ag ‘17)
     Stoddard, T. L. Present-day Europe. (S ‘17)
   =Civilian service=
     Bowser, T. Britain’s civilian volunteers. (Jl ‘17)
   =Deportation=
     Deportation of women and girls from Lille. (My ‘17)
   =Dictionaries and phrase books=
     Cross, H. Soldiers’ spoken French. (Ag ‘17)
     Empey, A. G. “Over the top.” (Tommy’s dictionary of the trenches,
        p. 281-315). (Ag ‘17)
     Wilkins, E. H., and others. First lessons in spoken French for men
        in military service. (Ag ‘17)

   =Diplomatic history=
     Gerard, J. W. My four years in Germany. (O ‘17)
     Headlam, J. W. German chancellor and the outbreak of war. (N ‘17)
     Scott, J. B., ed. Diplomatic documents relating to the outbreak of
        the European war. (Je ‘17)
   =Drama=
     Sainte Séductre. (O ‘17)
   =Economic aspects=
     Dibblee, G: B. Germany’s economic position and England’s commercial
        and industrial policy after the war. (My ‘17)
     Dickinson, G. L. Choice before us. (O ‘17)
     Furniss, H: S., ed. Industrial outlook. (N ‘17)
     Jabotinsky, V. Turkey and the war. (O ‘17)
     Marcosson, I: F: War after the war. (Je ‘17)
     O’Brien, C: Food preparedness for the United States. (Ag ‘17)
     Scott, W: R. Economic problems of peace after war. (F ‘18)
     Webb, S. Restoration of trade union conditions. (D ‘17)
   =Fiction=
     _See_ Fiction—European war
   =France=
     Atherton, G. F. Living present. (Ag ‘17)
     Dawson, A. J: For France. (Ag ‘17)
     Fortescue, G. R. France bears the burden. (F ‘18)
     Irwin, W: H: Latin at war. (S ‘17)
     Lanux, P. de. Young France and new America. (F ‘18)
     Mackay, H. Journal of small things. (Ap ‘17)
     Powell, E. A. Brothers in arms. (Ag ‘17)
   =Germany=
     Ackerman, C. W. Germany, the next republic? (Ag ‘17)
     Beaufort, J. M. de. Behind the German veil. (Jl ‘17)
     Bevan, E. R. Method in the madness. (D ‘17)
     Bullitt, E. D. Uncensored diary. (My ‘17)
     Cook, Sir T. A. Mark of the beast. (My ‘17)
     Curtin, D. T: Land of deepening shadow. (Je ‘17)
     Fernau, H. Coming democracy. (O ‘17)
     Gerard, J. W. My four years in Germany. (O ‘17)
     Grumbach, S. Germany’s annexationist aims. (F ‘18)
     McLaren, A. D. Germanism from within. (My ‘17)
     Out of their own mouths. (Ja ‘18)
     Swope, H. B. Inside the German empire. (Mr ‘17)
   =Great Britain=
     Beith, J: H. Getting together. (Mr ‘17)
     Chevrillon, A. England and the war (1914-1915). (Ag ‘17)
     Cravath, P. D. Great Britain’s part. (My ‘17)
     Destrée, J. Britain in arms. (N ‘17)
     Gardner, L., ed. Hope for society. (S ‘17)
     Murray, G. Faith, war, and policy. (O ‘17)
     Pennell, J. Joseph. Pennell’s pictures of war work in England. (My
        ‘17)
     Smuts, J. C. War-time speeches. (Ja ‘18)
   =Hospitals, charities, etc.=
     Downer, E. B. Highway of death. (Ap ‘17)
     Edith Cavell nurse from Massachusetts. (Je ‘17)
     Huard, F. My home in the field of mercy. (Ja ‘18)
     Kellogg, C. Women of Belgium. (Je ‘17)
     Letters from a French hospital. (Ag ‘17)
     McDougall, G. Nurse at the war. (Ag ‘17)
     Mitton, G. E. Cellar-house of Pervyse. (Ap ‘17)
     Mortimer, M. Green tent in Flanders. (D ‘17)
   =Italy=
     Bainville, J. Italy and the war. (My ‘17)
     Carnovale, L. Why Italy entered into the great war. (N ‘17)
     Low, S. J. M. Italy in the war. (My ‘17)
     Powell, E. A. Italy at war and the Allies in the west. (Je ‘17)
     Vivian, H. Italy at war. (O ‘17)
     Wells, H. G: Italy, France and Britain at war. (Mr ‘17)
   =Medical and sanitary affairs=
     Eder, M. D: War-shock. (Ag ‘17)
     Hurst, A. F. Medical diseases of the war. (Ja ‘18)
     Rosenau, M. J. Preventive medicine and hygiene. (Ja ‘18)
     Thurstan, V. Text book of war nursing. (F ‘18)
   =Mesopotamia=
     Barber, C: H. Besieged in Kut and after. (O ‘17)
   =Naval operations=
     Dixon, W: M. British navy at war. (S ‘17)
     Noyes, A. Open boats. (Jl ‘17)
     Smith, Sir F: E. Destruction of merchant ships under international
        law. (N ‘17)
   =Peace and mediation=
     Chesterton, C. E: Perils of peace. (My ‘17)
     Cosmos, pseud. Basis of durable peace. (Mr ‘17)
     Dickinson, G. L. Choice before us. (O ‘17)
     Headlam, J. W. The issue. (Mr ‘17)
     Herron, G: D. Menace of peace. (Ag ‘17)
     Hugins, R. Possible peace. (Ag ‘17)
     McCormick, H. F. Via pacis. (Jl ‘17)
   =Personal narratives=
     Aldrich, M. On the edge of the war zone. (O ‘17)
     Allen, H. W. Unbroken line. (Je ‘17)
     Bairnsfather, B. Bullets and billets. (Mr ‘17)
     Barbusse, H. Under fire. (O ‘17)
     Bean, C. E. W. Letters from France. (O ‘17)
     Beaufort, J. M. de. Behind the German veil. (Jl ‘17)
     Bell, F: M. First Canadians in France. (D ‘17)
     Bell, R. W. Canada in war-paint. (F ‘18)
     Brittain, H. E. To Verdun from the Somme. (My ‘17)
     Bullitt, E. D. Uncensored diary. (My ‘17)
     Bury, H. Here and there in the war area. (Jl ‘17)
     Camp, C: W. War’s dark frame. (Ag ‘17)
     Casalis, A. E. For France and the faith. (N ‘17)
     Chapman, V: E. Victor Chapman’s letters from France. (Ag ‘17)
     Clifton-Shelton, A. On the road from Mons. (Ja ‘18)
     Coleman, F: A. With cavalry in the great war. (Ja ‘18)
     Copping, A. E. Souls in khaki. (S ‘17)
     Currie, J: A. Red Watch. (My ‘17)
     Dawson, C. Carry on. (Ag ‘17)
     Doty, M. Z. Short rations. (Mr ‘17)
     Empey, A. G. “Over the top.” (Ag ‘17)
     Erichsen, E. Forced to fight. (Jl ‘17)
     Forstner, G. G., freiherr von. Journal of submarine commander von
        Forstner. (Ja ‘18)
     Fortescue, G. R. France bears the burden. (F ‘18)
     From Dartmouth to the Dardanelles. (My ‘17)
     Genevoix, M. ‘Neath Verdun. (Mr ‘17)
     German deserter’s war experience. (Je ‘17)
     Hankey, D. W: A. Student in arms. (Mr ‘17)
     Hargrave, J: At Suvla Bay. (Ag ‘17)
     Heath, A. G: Letters. (N ‘17)
     Huard, F. My home in the field of mercy. (Ja ‘18)
     Irwin, W: H: Latin at war. (S ‘17)
     Keene, L: “Crumps.” (Ja ‘18)
     Kelly, R. A. Kelly of the Foreign legion. (O ‘17)
     Kettle, T: M. Ways of war. (F ‘18)
     Liddell, R. S. On the Russian front. (Ap ‘17)
     Lintier, P. My .75. (D ‘17)
     Lister, C: A. Letters and recollections. (Je ‘17)
     McClintock, A. Best o’ luck. (D ‘17)
     MacQuarrie, H. How to live at the front. (O ‘17)
     Millet, P. Comrades in arms. (Je ‘17)
     Mortimer, M. Green tent in Flanders. (D ‘17)
     Mücke, H. von. The “Ayesha.” (Ap ‘17)
     Mücke, H. von. The “Emden.” (Jl ‘17)
     Nicolas, R. Campaign diary of a French officer. (Je ‘17)
     Nobbs, G. On the right of the British line. (O ‘17)
     Palmer, F: My second year of the war. (Mr ‘17)
     Peat, H. R. Private Peat. (F ‘18)
     Price, J. M. Six months on the Italian front. (N ‘17)
     Priestmann, E. Y. With a B.P. scout in Gallipoli. (Jl ‘17)
     Rae, H., pseud. Maple leaves in Flanders fields. (O ‘17)
     Seeger, A. Letters and diary. (Ag ‘17)
     Sheahan, H: Volunteer Poilu. (Ap ‘17)
     Shepherd, W: G. Confessions of a war correspondent. (Ag ‘17)
     Soldier of France to his mother. (O ‘17)
     Sommers, C. Temporary heroes. (F ‘18)
     Spiegel von und zu Peckelsheim, E., freiherr. Adventures of the
        U-202. (Je ‘17)
     Stevenson, W: Y. At the front in a flivver. (Ja ‘18)
     Stobart, M. A. Flaming sword in Serbia and elsewhere. (O ‘17)
     Student in arms: second series. Hankey, D. W: A. (Ag ‘17)
     Waddington, M. A. My war diary. (O ‘17)
     Walker, H: F. B. Doctor’s diary in Damaraland. (N ‘17)
     Ward, H. Mr Poilu. (Ag ‘17)
     Washburn, S. Russian advance. (Mr ‘17)
     Wells, C. A. From Montreal to Vimy Ridge and beyond. (Ja ‘18)
     Williams, A. R. In the claws of the German eagle. (Je ‘17)
     Williams, J. E. H. One young man. (Jl ‘17)
     Wood, E. F. Note-book of an intelligence officer. (F ‘18)
     Wray, W. F. Across France in war time. (D ‘17)
   =Pictorial works=
     Nevinson, C. R: W. Modern war. (F ‘18)
     Pennell, J. Joseph Pennell’s pictures of war work in England (My
        ‘17)
   =Poetry=
     Binyon, L. Cause, The. (Jl ‘17)
     Clarke, G: H., ed. Treasury of war poetry. (N ‘17)
     Eassie, R. M. Odes to trifles. (Ja ‘18)
     Fifes and drums. (Ag ‘17)
     Letts, W. M. Hallow-e’en. (S ‘17)
     MacGill, P. Soldier songs. (Jl ‘17)
     Phillpotts, E. Plain song, 1914-1916. (N ‘17)
     Underwood, J: C. War flames. (Jl ‘17)
     Watson, Sir W: Man who saw. (Ag ‘17)
     Weeks, R. Ode to France. (Ag ‘17)
     Wheeler, W: R., ed. Book of verse of the great war. (Ja ‘18)
     “X.,” pseud. War poems. (My ‘17)
   =Prisoners and prisons=
     Cohen, I: Ruhleben prison camp. (Jl ‘17)
     Desson, G. Hostage in Germany. (F ‘18)
     Hennebois, C: In German hands. (F ‘18)
     Mahoney, H: C: Sixteen months in four German prisons. (S ‘17)
   =Religious aspects=
     Burroughs, E: A. Fight for the future (My ‘17)
     Burroughs, E: A. Valley of decision. (Ap ‘17)
     Frothingham, P. R. Confusion of tongues. (O ‘17)
     Hankey, D. W: A. Student in arms. (Mr ‘17)
     Hodges, G: Religion in a world at war. (Ag ‘17)
     Holmes, J: H. Religion for today. (Mr ‘17)
     Pym, T: W., and Gordon, G. Papers from Picardy. (D ‘17)
     Rihbany, A. M. Militant America and Jesus Christ. (F ‘18)
     Talbot, N. S. Thoughts on religion at the front. (N ‘17)
     Tiplady, T: Cross at the front. (Ja ‘18)
   =Results (forecasts)=
     Beer, G: L: English-speaking peoples. (O ‘17)
   =Russia=
     Alexinsky, T. With the Russian wounded. (Mr ‘17)
     Graham, S. Russia in 1916. (Mr ‘17)
   =Servia=
     Downer, E. B. Highway of death. (Ap ‘17)
     Stobart, M. A. Flaming sword in Serbia and elsewhere. (O ‘17)
   =South Africa=
     Walker, H. F. B. Doctor’s diary in Damaraland. (N ‘17)
   =Turkey=
     Jabotinsky, V. Turkey and the war. (O ‘17)
   =United States=
     Beith, J: H. Getting together. (Mr ‘17)
     Eddy, S. With our soldiers in France. (F ‘18)
     Gordon, G: A. Appeal of the nation. (S ‘17)
     Johnson, W. F. America and the great war for humanity and freedom.
        (Ag ‘17)
     Lanux, P. de. Young France and new America. (F ‘18)
     Lodge, H: C. War addresses, 1915-1917. (Jl ‘17)
     Martin, E: S. Diary of a nation. (D ‘17)
     Palmer, F: With our faces in the light. (N ‘17)
     Rogers, L. America’s case against Germany. (O ‘17)
     Roosevelt, T. Foes of our own household. (O ‘17)
     World peril. (F ‘18)
   =Women and the war=
     Stone, G., ed. Women war workers. (S ‘17)

 =Eustochium, Saint=, 370?-419
   Zahm, J: A. Great inspirers. (Je ‘17)

 Evening in my library among the English poets. Coleridge, S. (Je ‘17)

 =Evolution=
   Davies, G: R. Social environment. (My ‘17)
   Moore, J: H. Savage survivals. (Jl ‘17)
   Morgan, T: H. Critique of the theory of evolution. (My ‘17)
   Osborn, H: F. Origin and evolution of life. (N ‘17)
   Scott, W: B. Theory of evolution. (Jl ‘17)

 Evolution of coinage. Macdonald, G: (Jl ‘17)

 Evolution of modern capitalism. Hobson, J: A. (Ja ‘18)

 Evolution of the Hebrew people and their influence on civilization.
    Wild, L. H. (Ja ‘18)

 Examples in battery engineering. Austin, F. E. (N ‘17)

 Excess condemnation. Cushman, R. E. (D ‘17)

 Expansion of Europe. Muir, R. (O ‘17)

 =Explosives=
   Weaver, E. M. Notes on military explosives. (D ‘17)

 Exporting to Latin America. Filsinger, E. B. (Ag ‘17)

 Expository value of the Revised version. Milligan, G: (F ‘18)

 Extricating Obadiah. Lincoln, J. C. (D ‘17)

 Eyes of the army and navy. Munday, A. H. (Ja ‘18)


 Factories. Widdemer, M. (N ‘17)

 =Factory management=
   Jones, E: D: Administration of industrial enterprises. (My ‘17)
   Webner, F. E. Factory accounting. (S ‘17)
   Woods, C. E. Unified accounting methods for industrials. (Jl ‘17)

 Facts, thought, and imagination. Canby, H: S., and others. (D ‘17)

 =Fahnestock, Mrs Wallace Weir.= See Humphrey, Z.

 Fairhope. Jones, E. D. (N ‘17)

 =Fairy tales=
   Chaplin, A. Treasury of fairy tales. (Ja ‘18)
   Dasent, Sir G: W. East o’ the sun and west o’ the moon. (My ‘17)
   Eells, E. S. Fairy tales from Brazil. (D ‘17)
   Quinn, E. V., ed. Stokes’ wonder book of fairy tales. (D ‘17)

 Faith. Cunninghame Graham, R. B. (F ‘18)

 Faith justified by progress. Wright, H: W. (Ap ‘17)

 Faith of a middle-aged man. Kingman, H: (F ‘18)

 Faith, war, and policy. Murray, G. (O ‘17)

 Fall of the Romanoffs. (F ‘18)

 False Dmitri. Howe, S. E., ed. (Ap ‘17)

 False witness. Jörgensen, J. (My ‘17)

 Familiar ways. Sherwood, M. P. (N ‘17)

 =Family=
   Calhoun, A. W. Social history of the American family from colonial
      times to the present. (D ‘17)

 Family of noblemen. Saltykov, M. E. (Ja ‘18)

 Fanny herself. Ferber, E. (O ‘17)

 =Farm engines=
   Currie, B. W. Tractor and its influence upon the agricultural
      implement industry. (Je ‘17)
   Ramsower, H. C. Equipment for the farm and the farmstead. (Jl ‘17)

 =Farm life=
   Tilden, F. Second wind. (N ‘17)
   Vogt, P. L. Introduction to rural sociology. (O ‘17)

 =Farm produce=
   Adams, A: B. Marketing perishable farm products. (Ag ‘17)
   Weld, L: D. H. Marketing of farm products. (Ag ‘17)

 Farm spies. Conradi, A. F:, and Thomas, W: A. (Jl ‘17)

 Faulkner’s folly. Wells, C. (N ‘17)

 Feast of lanterns. Cranmer-Byng, L. A., tr. (O ‘17)

 Feelings and things. Wallace, E. K. (Jl ‘17)

 =Ferns=
   Beecroft, W. I., comp. Who’s who among the wild flowers and ferns.
      (Je ‘17)

 =Fiction=
   =Bibliographies=
     Grimm, M. E., comp. Translations of foreign novels. (D ‘17)

 =FICTION=
   =Adventure=
     Bailey, H: C. Highwayman. (Jl ‘17)
     Bonner, G. Treasure and trouble therewith. (N ‘17)
     Brady, C. T. “By the world forgot.” (Ja ‘18)
     Chambers, R. W: Dark star. (Jl ‘17)
     Day, H. F. Where your treasure is. (S ‘17)
     Forbes, J: M. Doubloons—and the girl. (Je ‘17)
     Haggard, Sir H: R. Finished. (N ‘17)
     Hendryx, J. B. Gun-brand. (Je ‘17)
     Kyne, P: B. Webster—man’s man. (N ‘17)
     MacGrath, H. Luck of the Irish. (D ‘17)
     Masefield, J: Lost endeavour. (Mr ‘17)
     Oyen, H: Gaston Olaf. (D ‘17)
     Stacpoole, H: De V. Sea plunder. (Je ‘17)
   =Americans abroad=
     Byrne, L., pseud. American ambassador. (Jl ‘17)
     Hall, G. Aurora the magnificent. (My ‘17)
   =Animal stories=
     Foote, J: T. Dumb-Bell of Brookfield. (Je ‘17)
     Greene, H. P. Pilot. (Je ‘17)
     Hines, J: C. Blue streak. (D ‘17)
     London, J. Jerry of the islands. (My ‘17)
     London, J. Michael, brother of Jerry. (Ja ‘18)
     Smith, B. Only a dog. (My ‘17)
     Steiner, E: A. My doctor dog. (Ja ‘18)
   =Army life=
     French, A. At Plattsburg. (My ‘17)
   =Artist life=
     Cannan, G. Mendel. (Mr ‘17)
     Humphreys, E. M. J. Rubbish heap. (Jl ‘17)
     Lucas, St J. W. L. April folly. (S ‘17)
     Moore, G: Lewis Seymour and some women. (Je ‘17)
   =Business=
     Cahan, A. Rise of David Levinsky. (O ‘17)
     Ferber, E. Fanny herself. (O ‘17)
     Kelland, C. B. Sudden Jim. (Mr ‘17)
     Lefevre, E. To the last penny. (My ‘17)
     Lewis, S. Job. (Mr ‘17)
     Mackenzie, C. Man who tried to be it. (My ‘17)
   =Canada in war-time=
     Connor, R., pseud. Major. (Ja ‘18)
   =Character studies=
     _See_ Studies of character
   =Cheerful stories=
     Abbott, E. H. Stingy receiver. (Mr ‘17)
     Abdullah, A. Bucking the tiger. (O ‘17)
     Aldrich, D. Enchanted hearts. (Ja ‘18)
     Bailey, T. Mistress Anne. (Ag ‘17)
     Brainerd, E. How could you, Jean? (D ‘17)
     Browne, P. E. Someone and somebody. (N ‘17)
     Buckrose, J. E., pseud. Matchmakers. (Mr ‘17)
     Burgess, G. Mrs Hope’s husband. (O ‘17)
     Dowd, E. C. Polly and the princess. (F ‘18)
     Eastman, R. L. Big little person. (N ‘17)
     Foster, M. Shoestrings. (Je ‘17)
     Hall, G. Aurora the magnificent. (My ‘17)
     Hill, M. McAllister’s grove. (S ‘17)
     Hough, E. Man next door. (My ‘17)
     Hueston, E. Sunny slopes. (O ‘17)
     Kingsley, F. Neighbors. (O ‘17)
     Lynde, F. Stranded in Arcady. (Jl ‘17)
     Maniates, B. K. Amarilly in love. (O ‘17)
     Montgomery, L. M. Anne’s house of dreams. (O ‘17)
     Morley, C. D. Parnassus on wheels. (N ‘17)
     Nicholson, M. Madness of May. (Je ‘17)
     Onions, B. R. Girls at his billet. (My ‘17)
     Onions, B. R. Miss Million’s maid. (N ‘17)
     Rice, A. C. Calvary alley. (O ‘17)
     Richards, L. E. Pippin, a wandering flame. (Jl ‘17)
     Richmond, G. L. Red Pepper’s patients. (O ‘17)
     Sawyer, R. Herself, himself and myself. (N ‘17)
     Schayer, E. R: Good loser. (S ‘17)
     Shute, H: A: Youth Plupy. (O ‘17)
     Skinner, C. L. “Good-morning, Rosamond!” (Jl ‘17)
     Sterrett, F. R. William and Williamina. (N ‘17)
     Taylor, K. H. Cecilia of the pink roses. (O ‘17)
     Tompkins, J. W. At the sign of the oldest house. (F ‘18)
     Van Schaick, G: G. Top-floor idyl. (N ‘17)
     Weston, G: Oh, Mary, be careful! (Mr ‘17)
     Widdemer, M. Wishing-ring man. (N ‘17)
   =Christmas stories=
     Dawson, C. Seventh Christmas. (N ‘17)
     Jefferson, C: E: Land of enough. (Ja ‘18)
     Maher, R: A. While shepherds watched. (D ‘17)
     Nicholson, M. Reversible Santa Claus. (Ja ‘18)
   =Country life=
     Showerman, G. Country child. (D ‘17)
   =Detective stories=
     _See_ Mystery stories; Secret service
   =European war=
     Andreieff, L. N. Confessions of a little man during great days. (My
        ‘17)
     Berger, M. Ordeal by fire. (Mr ‘17)
     Brereton, F: S. On the road to Bagdad. (Ap ‘17)
     Brooks, A. Fighting men. (S ‘17)
     Buchan, J: Greenmantle. (Mr ‘17)
     Cable, B. Grapes of wrath. (My ‘17)
     Chambers, R. W: Barbarians. (D ‘17)
     Cholmondeley, A. Christine. (O ‘17)
     Dawson, C. Pincher Martin, O.D. (Je ‘17)
     Géraldy, P. The war, Madame. (My ‘17)
     Gibbs, G: F. Secret witness. (N ‘17)
     Hamilton, R. W. Belinda of the Red cross. (N ‘17)

     Kueller, J. van A. Young lion of Flanders. (Ja ‘18)
     Richards, H. G. Shadows. (My ‘17)
     Rutledge, M., pseud. Children of fate. (My ‘17)
     Sapper, pseud. No Man’s Land. (O ‘17)
     Sidgwick, C. Salt of the earth. (O ‘17)
     Sladen, D. B. W. Douglas romance. (My ‘17)
     Smith, B. Only a dog. (My ‘17)
     _See also_ Canada in war-time; Germany in war-time; Great Britain
        in war-time; United States in war-time
   =Farming=
     Dyer, W. A. Five Babbitts at Bonnyacres. (D ‘17)
     Harris, G. Treasure of the land. (O ‘17)
   =Germany in war-time=
     Fox, E: L. New Gethsemane. (N ‘17)
     Sidgwick, C. Salt of the earth. (O ‘17)
   =Great Britain In war-time=
     Bell, J: K. Smiths in war time. (D ‘17)
     Benson, S. This is the end. (Jl ‘17)
     Bottome, P. Second fiddle. (N ‘17)
     Burke, E: My wife. (N ‘17)
     De Sélincourt, H. Soldier of life. (Mr ‘17)
     Diver, K. H. M. Unconquered. (D ‘17)
     Ervine, St J. G. Changing winds. (My ‘17)
     Findlater, M. and J. H. Seen and heard, before and after 1914. (Jl
        ‘17)
     Hemenway, H. Four days. (S ‘17)
     Lane, A. E. War phases according to Maria. (Mr ‘17)
     Locke, W: J: Red planet. (Ag ‘17)
     Lowndes, M. A. Lilla. (My ‘17)
     Onions, B. R. Girls at his billet. (My ‘17)
     Phillpotts, E. Banks of Colne (the nursery). (Jl ‘17)
     Ward, M. A. Missing. (D ‘17)
   =Heredity and environment=
     Hergesheimer, J. Three black Pennys. (D ‘17)
     Wood, M. Mystery of Gabriel. (Ja ‘18)
   =Historical novels=
     _Bohemia_
       Kryshanovskaya, V. I. Torch-bearers of Bohemia. (My ‘17)
     _Crimean war_
       Steel, F. A. Marmaduke. (O ‘17)
     _England_
       Bailey, H: C. Highwayman. (Jl ‘17)
       Gough, G: W. Yeoman adventurer. (Je ‘17)
     _France_
       Castle, A. and E. Wolf-lure. (D ‘17)
       Johns, C. S. With gold and steel. (Ja ‘18)
       Orczy, E. Sheaf of bluebells. (D ‘17)
     _Great Britain_
       Barclay, F. L. White ladies of Worcester. (D ‘17)
     _Italy_
       Drummond, H. Greater than the greatest. (Je ‘17)
       McCabe, J. Pope’s favourite. (Jl ‘17)
     _Netherlands_
       Bowen, M., pseud. William, by the grace of God. (N ‘17)
       Laughlin, C. E. Heart of her highness. (D ‘17)
     _Palestine_
       Brady, C. T. When the sun stood still. (S ‘17)
       Hudson, C: B: Royal outlaw. (O ‘17)
       Worth, P. Sorry tale. (S ‘17)
     _Portugal_
       Sabatini, R. Snare. (N ‘17)
     _Rome under Nero_
       Billings, M. W. Cleomenes. (N ‘17)
     _United States_
       Altsheler, J. A. Rulers of the lakes. (D ‘17)
       Atkinson, E. Hearts undaunted. (Ja ‘18)
       Bacheller, I. A. Light in the clearing. (Ap ‘17)
     Buchan, J: Salute to adventurers. (Ja ‘18)
     Harben, W. N. Triumph. (O ‘17)
     McCarter, M. Vanguards of the plains. (D ‘17)
     Owen, C. D. Seth Way. (Ja ‘18)
     Parrish, R. Devil’s own. (F ‘18)
     Scott, E. Elizabeth Bess. (D ‘17)
     Singmaster, E. Long journey. (Ap ‘17)
     Stimson, F: J. My story. (D ‘17)
     Willsie, H. M. Benefits forgot. (N ‘17)
   =Humor=
     Bunner, H. C. Stories. (Mr ‘17)
     Burke, E: My wife. (N ‘17)
     Elliott, F. P. Lend me your name! (O ‘17)
     Fitch, G: Twenty-four. (Mr ‘17)
     Jacobs, W. W. Castaways. (Mr ‘17)
     Jenkins, H. G: Bindle. (Ap ‘17)
     Jenkins, H. G: Night club. (F ‘18)
     Marshall, A. Upsidonia. (Mr ‘17)
     Rinehart, M. Bab. (Jl ‘17)
     Wodehouse, P. G. Piccadilly Jim. (My ‘17)
   =Immigrants in America=
     Stern, E. G. My mother and I. (Ag ‘17)
   =Industrial conditions=
     Churchill, W. Dwelling-place of light. (N ‘17)
     Eekhoud, G. New Carthage. (O ‘17)
     Maher, R: A. Gold must be tried by fire. (Je ‘17)
     Sinclair, U. B. King coal. (O ‘17)
     Sterne, E. Road of ambition. (Jl ‘17)
     Straight road. (Je ‘17)
   =Intemperance=
     Rives, H. E. Long lane’s turning. (O ‘17)
   =Jesus Christ=
     Snaith, J: C. Coming, The (N ‘17)
   =Jewish life=
     Cahan, A. Rise of David Levinsky. (O ‘17)
     Cannan, G. Mendel. (Mr ‘17)
     Nyburg, S. L. Chosen people. (Ap ‘17)
   =Labor=
     Anderson, S. Marching men. (O ‘17)
     Nexö, M. A. Pelle the conqueror. (Ag ‘17)
     Sullivan, A. Inner door. (O ‘17)
     Twombly, F. D., and Dana, J: C., comps. Romance of labor. (Ap ‘17)
   =Lumber camps=
     Oyen, H: Gaston Olaf. (D ‘17)
   =Marriage=
     Bartlett, F: O. Triflers. (My ‘17)
     Bartley, N. I. Paradise auction. (S ‘17)
     Cooke, M. B. Cinderella Jane. (Je ‘17)
     Crowell, B. Wings of the Cardinal. (O ‘17)
     Delano, E. To-morrow morning. (N ‘17)
     Dell, E. M. Hundredth chance. (Jl ‘17)
     Empty house. (O ‘17)
     Galsworthy, J: Beyond. (S ‘17)
     Hamilton, C. Joan and the babies and I. (My ‘17)
     Hichens, R. S. In the wilderness. (Mr ‘17)
     Hughes, R. We can’t have everything. (O ‘17)
     Irwin, F. Mask. (O ‘17)
     Norris, K. Undertow. (Ap ‘17)
     Porter, E. H. Road to understanding. (Ap ‘17)
     Rumsey, M. Mr Cushing and Mlle du Chastel. (Jl ‘17)
     Swinnerton, F. A. Chaste wife. (Ap ‘17)
     Terhune, A. P. Dollars and cents. (Jl ‘17)
     Tremlett, Mrs H. Giddy Mrs Goodyer. (Jl ‘17)
     Webster, H: K. Thoroughbred. (Mr ‘17)
   =Motherhood=
     Gates, E. Apron-strings. (Ja ‘18)
   =Musicians=
     Maclean, S. Alexis. (N ‘17)
     Vallings, G. Bindweed. (Jl ‘17)
   =Mystery stories=
     Bell, J: J. Till the clock stops. (Ap ‘17)
     Bindloss, H. Carmen’s messenger. (O ‘17)
     Camp, C: W. Abandoned room. (D ‘17)

     Chambers, R. W: Dark star. (Jl ‘17)
     Champion, J. Jimmy’s wife. (Ap ‘17)
     Dejeans, E. Tiger’s coat. (Mr ‘17)
     Doubleday, R. Green Tree mystery. (Ja ‘18)
     Doyle, Sir A. C. His last bow. (N ‘17)
     French, A. Hiding-places. (Ap ‘17)
     Gorell, R. G. B., 3d baron. In the night. (O ‘17)
     Groner, A. Joe Muller, detective. (D ‘17)
     Hanshew, T: W. Cleek’s government cases. (My ‘17)
     Hardy, A. S. No. 13, rue du Bon Diable. (D ‘17)
     Hutten zum Stolzenberg, B., freifrau von. Mag Pye. (Ap ‘17)
     Kerr, S. Blue envelope. (My ‘17)
     Le Blanc, M. Golden triangle. (N ‘17)
     Lee, J. B. Green jacket. (O ‘17)
     Lincoln, N. S. Nameless man. (D ‘17)
     Lippmann, J. M. Mannequin. (Je ‘17)
     Luehrmann, A. Other Brown. (N ‘17)
     McCutcheon, G: B. Green fancy. (O ‘17)
     McFadden, G. V. Honest lawyer. (My ‘17)
     MacHarg, W:, and Balmer, E. Indian drum. (N ‘17)
     Machen, A. Terror. (D ‘17)
     Marsh, R: Beetle. (Ap ‘17)
     Oppenheim, E: P. Cinema murder. (Jl ‘17)
     Packard, F. L. Adventures of Jimmie Dale. (My ‘17)
     Porter, H. E. What he least expected. (Ap ‘17)
     Reeve, A. B: Adventuress. (F ‘18)
     Reeve, A. B: Treasure train. (D ‘17)
     Reynolds, G. M. Castle to let. (Ja ‘18)
     Roche, A. S. Plunder. (Ap ‘17)
     Rohmer, S., pseud. Hand of Fu-Manchu. (S ‘17)
     Scott, J: R. Man in evening clothes. (Jl ‘17)
     Wallace, E. Kate plus 10. (N ‘17)
     Wells, C. Faulkner’s folly. (N ‘17)
     Wells, C. Mark of Cain. (Ap ‘17)
     Woodrow, N. M. Hornet’s nest. (Ap ‘17)
   =Negro question=
     Kester, P. His own country. (S ‘17)
   =New thought=
     Seton, J. Destiny. (F ‘18)
   =Novels from plays=
       Musson, B. Turn to the right. (Ja ‘18)
   =Novels of locality=
     _Alaska_
       Hines, J: C. Blue streak. (D ‘17)
       Raine, W: M. Yukon trail. (Jl ‘17)
     _Asiatic Turkey_
       Kerruish, J. D. Miss Haroun Al-Raschid. (O ‘17)
     _Australia_
       Richardson, H: H. Fortunes of Richard Mahony. (O ‘17)
     _Austria-Hungary_
       Reynolds, G. M. Castle to let. (Ja ‘18)
     _Belgium (Antwerp)_
       Eekhoud, G. New Carthage. (O ‘17)
     _Boston_
       Cutler, R. Louisburg square. (My ‘17)
       Pier, A. S. Jerry. (Mr ‘17)
       Train, A. World and Thomas Kelly. (F ‘18)
       Warren, C. M. Phœnix. (Ap ‘17)
     _Brazil_
       Ingram, E. M. Twice American. (D ‘17)
     _California_
       Austin, M. The ford. (My ‘17)
       Bancroft, G. Interlopers. (O ‘17)
       Bonner, G. Treasure and trouble therewith. (N ‘17)
       Bower, B. M., pseud. Lookout man. (N ‘17)
       Straight road. (Je ‘17)
     _Canada_
       Gregory, J. Wolf breed. (D ‘17)
       Hendryx, J. B. Gun-brand. (Je ‘17)
       Macbeth, M. H. Kleath. (S ‘17)
       Mackay, I. E. Up the hill and over. (Je ‘17)
       Packard, F. L. Sin that was his. (F ‘18)
       Paterson, I. Magpie’s nest. (My ‘17)
       Thomson, E: W: Old man Savarin stories. (Ja ‘18)
     _China_
       Wherry, E. Wanderer on a thousand hills. (Je ‘17)
     _England_
       Brown, I. Security. (Ap ‘17)
       Graham, S. Priest of the ideal. (D ‘17)
       Paternoster, G: S. Great gift. (D ‘17)
       Walpole, H. Green mirror. (Ja ‘18)
       Watts-Dunton, W. T. Vesprie Towers. (Ap ‘17)
     _England (London)_
       Burke, T: Limehouse nights. (O ‘17)
       Irwin, M. E. F. Out of the house. (Mr ‘17)
       McKenna, S. Sonia. (S ‘17)
       Miller, E. Y. Blue aura. (Ja ‘18)
     _England (provincial and rural)_
       Ashton, H. Marshdikes. (O ‘17)
       Barr, A. E. Joan. (Mr ‘17)
       Benson, E: F: Tortoise. (N ‘17)
       Buckrose, J. E., pseud. Matchmakers. (Mr ‘17)
       Cade, C. T. Dandelions. (S ‘17)
       Coxon, M. Autumn. (My ‘17)
       Fleming, G. Off with the old love. (O ‘17)
       Harker, L. A. Jan and her job. (My ‘17)
       Helen of Four Gates. (S ‘17)
       Jesse, F. T. Secret bread. (O ‘17)
       McFadden, G. V. Honest lawyer. (My ‘17)
       Marshall, A. Abington abbey. (N ‘17)
       Moore, L. Antony Gray,—gardener. (Jl ‘17)
       Phillpotts, E. Banks of Colne (the nursery). (Jl ‘17)
       Riley, W. Way of the winepress. (N ‘17)
       Sharp, H. M. Stars in their courses. (Je ‘17)
       Stevenson, G: Little world apart. (My ‘17)
       Vachell, H. A. Fishpingle. (O ‘17)
       Wawn, F. J. Joyful years. (O ‘17)
     _France_
       Vallings, G. Bindweed. (Jl ‘17)
     _Georgia_
       Houghton, B. Y. Shelleys of Georgia. (N ‘17)
     _Germany_
       Cholmondeley, A. Christine. (O ‘17)
     _Great Lakes_
       MacHarg, W:, and Balmer, E. Indian drum. (N ‘17)
     _Holland_
       Couperus, L: M. A. Twilight of the souls. (N ‘17)
     _India_
       Mundy, T. Winds of the world. (F ‘18)
       Penny, F. E. Love tangles. (O ‘17)
     _Ireland_
       Blundell, M. E. Dark Rosaleen. (Ag ‘17)
       Ervine, St J. G. Changing winds. (My ‘17)
       Joyce, J. Portrait of the artist as a young man. (My ‘17)
       Sawyer, R. Herself, himself and myself. (N ‘17)
       Thurston, E. T. Enchantment. (Je ‘17)
     _Japan_
       Cooper, E. Heart of O Sono San. (Ja ‘18)
     _New England_
       Bassett, S. W. Wayfarers at the Angel’s. (D ‘17)
       Brown, A. Bromley neighborhood. (S ‘17)
       Cooper, J. A. Cap’n Abe, storekeeper. (S ‘17)
       Freeman, M. E., and Kingsley, F. Alabaster box. (My ‘17)
       Hopkins, W: J: Clammer and the submarine. (F ‘18)
       Irwin, I. Lady of kingdoms. (N ‘17)
       Lincoln, J. C. Extricating Obadiah. (D ‘17)
       Wharton, E. N. Summer. (Ag ‘17)
     _New York (city)_
       Adams, S: H. Our square and the people in it. (D ‘17)

       Cooke, M. B. Cinderella Jane. (Je ‘17)
       Farnol, J. Definite object. (Je ‘17)
       Irwin, I. H. Lady of kingdoms. (N ‘17)
       Lewis, S. Job. (Mr ‘17)
       Poole, E. His family. (Je ‘17)
       Updegraff, A. Second youth. (Je ‘17)
     _Newport_
       James, H: Ivory tower. (Ja ‘18)
     _Paris_
       Moore, G: Confessions of a young man. (Jl ‘17)
     _Pennsylvania_
       Kline, B. End of the flight. (My ‘17)
       Martin, H. R. Those Fitzenbergers. (Ap ‘17)
     _Scotland_
       Barr, A. E. Christine. (O ‘17)
     _South Sea Islands_
       London, J. Jerry of the Islands. (My ‘17)
     _Spain_
       Lazarillo de Tormes. Life of Lazarillo de Tormes and his fortunes
          and adversities. (N ‘17)
     _Turkey_
       Farrère, C. Man who killed. (Ja ‘18)
     _United States (middle-western)_
       Butler, E. P. Dominie Dean. (O ‘17)
       Dorsey, G: A. Young Low. (S ‘17)
       Flandrau, G. H. Cousin Julia. (O ‘17)
       Hughes, R. In a little town. (Mr ‘17)
       Hutchings, E. G. Jap Herron. (N ‘17)
       Kelland, C. B. Sudden Jim. (Mr ‘17)
       Willsie, H. M. Lydia of the pines. (Mr ‘17)
     _United States (southern)_
       Bailey, T. Mistress Anne. (Ag ‘17)
       Harben, W. N. Triumph. (O ‘17)
       Hill, M. McAllister’s grove. (S ‘17)
       Jones, E. D. Fairhope. (N ‘17)
       Kester, P. His own country. (S ‘17)
       Oemler, M. C. Slippy McGee. (Je ‘17)
       Olmstead, F. Anchorage. (Je ‘17)
     _United States (southwestern)_
       Dodge, L: Children of the desert. (Ap ‘17)
     _United States (western)_
       Bower, B. M. Starr, of the desert. (Ap ‘17)
       Coolidge, D. Rimrock Jones. (O ‘17)
       Foote, M. H. Edith Bonham. (Ap ‘17)
       Grey, Z. Wildfire. (Mr ‘17)
       Ogden, G: W. Rustler of Wind River. (Jl ‘17)
       Seton, E. T. Preacher of Cedar Mountain. (Je ‘17)
     _Wales_
       Evans, C. My people. (S ‘17)
       Webb, M. Golden arrow. (Je 17)
       Webb, M. Gone to earth. (O ‘17)
     =Patriotism=
     Greene, H. Flag. (Ja ‘18)
   =Philosophical novels=
     Machen, A. Terror. (D ‘17)
   =Psychological novels=
     Beresford, J: D. Wonder. (Ap ‘17)
     Blackwood, A. Wave. (Mr ‘17)
     Conrad, J. Shadow line. (My ‘17)
     Dane, C. Regiment of women. (Mr ‘17)
     Dark, S. Afraid. (Mr ‘17)
     De Sélincourt, H. Soldier of life. (Mr ‘17)
     Helen of Four Gates. (S ‘17)
     Henderson, W. E. B. Behind the thicket. (D ‘17)
     Humphrey, Z. Grail fire. (Ap ‘17)
     James, H: Ivory tower. (Ja ‘18)
     James, H: Sense of the past. (Ja ‘18)
     Joyce, J. Portrait of the artist as a young man. (My ‘17)
     Reid, F. Spring song. (Mr ‘17)
     Richardson, D. M. Pilgrimage: Backwater. (My ‘17)
     Sheppard, A. T. Quest of Ledgar Dunstan. (N ‘17)
     Waste, H., pseud. Philosophy. (Je ‘17)
   =Reincarnation=
     Blackwood, A. Wave. (Mr ‘17)
     Stevenson, B. E. King in Babylon. (N ‘17)
   =Religion=
     Wells, H. G: Soul of a bishop. (O ‘17)
   =Religious psychology=
     Wood, M. Mystery of Gabriel. (Ja ‘18)
   =Romance=
     Cabell, J. B. Cream of the jest. (D ‘17)
     Daviess, M. T. Out of a clear sky. (Jl ‘17)
     Deeping, W. Martin Valliant. (Ap ‘17)
     Hewlett, M. H: Thorgils. (Mr ‘17)
     Hudson, W: H: Crystal age. (Ap ‘17)
     Rinehart, M. Long live the king! (O ‘17)
     Ryan, M. E. Druid path. (Mr ‘17)
     Wawn, F. J. Joyful years. (O ‘17)
   =Russian and Polish stories=
     Andreieff, L. N. Confessions of a little man during great days. (My
        ‘17)
     Apukhtin, A. N. From death to life. (Ja ‘18)
     Artsybashev, M. P. Tales of the revolution. (S ‘17)
     Ash, S. Mottke the vagabond. (F ‘18)
     Benecke, E. C. M., and Busch, M., trs. More tales by Polish
        authors. (Jl ‘17)
     Chekhov, A. P. House with the mezzanine. (N ‘17)
     Chekhov, A. P. Lady with the dog. (N ‘17)
     Chekhov, A. P. Party. (D ‘17)
     Danilevskii, G. P. Moscow in flames. (F ‘18)
     Dostoevskii, F. M. Eternal husband. (Jl ‘17)
     Dostoevskii, F. M. Gambler. (Ja ‘18)
     Dostoevskii, F. M. Pages from the journal of an author. (S ‘17)
     Gregorovitsh, D. Fishermen. (N ‘17)
     Kuprin, A. I. Bracelet of garnets. (Je ‘17)
     Saltykov, M. E. Family of noblemen. (Ja ‘18)
     Seltzer, T:, comp. and ed. Best Russian short stories. (N ‘17)
     Sologub, F., pseud. Created legend. (S ‘17)
     Tolstoi, I. Visions. (My ‘17)
   =School and college life=
     Beith, J: H. “Pip.” (Mr ‘17)
     Dane, C. Regiment of women. (Mr ‘17)
     Paine, R. D. Sons of Eli. (F ‘18)
   =Sea stories=
     Connolly, J. B. Running free. (N ‘17)
     Conrad, J. Shadow line. (My ‘17)
     Noble, E: Outposts of the fleet. (D ‘17)
     Stacpoole, H: De V. Sea plunder. (Je ‘17)
   =Secret service=
     Bindloss, H. Brandon of the engineers. (Mr ‘17)
     Bower, B. M. Starr, of the desert. (Ap ‘17)
     Gibbs, G: F. Secret witness. (N ‘17)
   =Sex problems=
     Dorsey, G: A. Young Low. (S ‘17)
   =Short stories=
     Adams, S: H. Our square and the people in it. (D ‘17)
     Artsybashev, M. P. Tales of the revolution. (S ‘17)
     Aumonier, S. Friends. (O ‘17)
     Beach, R. E. Laughing Bill Hyde. (Ja ‘18)
     Bell, J: J. Kiddies. (Ja ‘18)
     Benecke, E. C. M., and Busch, M., trs. More tales by Polish
        authors. (Jl ‘17)
     Blackwood, A. Day and night stories. (O ‘17)
     Bottome, P. Derelict. (Jl ‘17)
     Brooks, A. Fighting men. (S ‘17)
     Brown, K. H. Wages of honor. (N ‘17)
     Bunner, H. C. Stories. (Mr ‘17)
     Burke, T: Limehouse nights. (O ‘17)
     Chekhov, A. P. House with the mezzanine. (N ‘17)
     Chekhov, A. P. Lady with the dog. (N ‘17)
     Chekhov, A. P. Party. (D ‘17)
     Cobb, I. S. Those times and these. (Ag ‘17)
     Connolly, J. B. Running free. (N ‘17)
     Corkery, D. Munster twilight. (Jl ‘17)
     Cunninghame Graham, R. B. Brought forward, and other volumes. (F
        ‘18)
     Curle, R: Echo of voices. (Jl ‘17)

     Davis, C. B. Her own sort. (My ‘17)
     Davis, R: H. Boy scout. (D ‘17)
     Dell, E. M. Safety curtain. (Ja ‘18)
     Dostoevskii, F. M. Eternal husband. (Jl ‘17)
     Dostoevskii, F. M. Gambler. (Ja ‘18)
     Evans, C. My people. (S ‘17)
     Findlater, M. and J. H. Seen and heard, before and after 1914. (Jl
        ‘17)
     Ford, S. Wilt thou, Torchy. (Mr ‘17)
     Fox, J: In Happy Valley. (O ‘17)
     Greene, F: S., ed. Grim thirteen. (O ‘17)
     Hughes, R. In a little town. (Mr ‘17)
     Irwin, W. A. Pilgrims into folly. (S ‘17)
     Jerome, J. K. Street of the blank wall. (Mr ‘17)
     Kipling, R. Diversity of creatures. (Je ‘17)
     Lagerlöf, S. O. L. Queens of Kungahälla. (O ‘17)
     Lardner, R. W. Gullible’s travels, etc. (S ‘17)
     Mackenzie, D. A. Stories of Russian folk-life. (Ap ‘17)
     Mason, A. E: W. Four corners of the world. (N ‘17)
     Maupassant, G. H. R. A. de. Second odd number. (N ‘17)
     Noble, E: Outposts of the fleet. (D ‘17)
     O’Brien, E: J. H., ed. Best short stories of 1916. (Mr ‘17)
     Osborn, E: W. Maid with wings. (Ja ‘18)
     Seltzer, T:, comp. and ed. Best Russian short stories. (N ‘17)
     Taber, S. Optimist. (F ‘18)
     Thomson, E: W: Old man Savarin stories. (Ja ‘18)
     Tolstoi, I. Visions. (My ‘17)
     Tree, Sir H. B. Nothing matters. (My ‘17)
     Tuttle, F. G. Give my love to Maria. (D ‘17)
     Weaver, H. Flame and the shadow-eater. (D ‘17)
   =Society life=
     Davis, C. B. Her own sort. (My ‘17)
     Field, L. M. Little gods laugh. (O ‘17)
     Flandrau, G. H. Cousin Julia. (O ‘17)
     Hamilton, C. Scandal. (N ‘17)
     Hughes, R. We can’t have everything. (O ‘17)
     Miller, A. Ladies must live. (O ‘17)
     Ohlson, H. Dancing hours. (Ap ‘17)
     Train, E. Bringing out Barbara. (D ‘17)
     Warren, C. M. Phœnix. (Ap ‘17)
   =Sport and recreation=
     Porter, H. E. Dormie one. (D ‘17)
     Roche, A. S. Sport of kings. (D ‘17)
     Van Loan, C: E. Old man Curry. (D ‘17)
   =Stories about children=
     Aldrich, D. Enchanted hearts. (Ja ‘18)
     Bell, J: J. Kiddies. (Ja ‘18)
     Bilbro, M. Middle pasture. (Mr ‘17)
     Brubaker, H. Ranny, otherwise Randolph Harrington Dukes. (N ‘17)
     Dodge, H: I. Skinner’s baby. (N ‘17)
     Fisher, D. F. Understood Betsy. (O ‘17)
     Harker, L. A. Jan and her job. (My ‘17)
     Irwin, G. Brown-eyed Susan. (O ‘17)
     Johnston, W: A. “Limpy.” (Mr ‘17)
     Kelley, E. M. Turn about Eleanor. (Ja ‘18)
     Leonard, M. F. Ways of Jane. (Je ‘17)
     Maniates, B. K. Our next-door neighbors. (Ap ‘17)
     Merwin, S: Temperamental Henry. (N ‘17)
     Partridge, E: B. Sube Cane. (N ‘17)
     Reid, F. Spring song. (Mr ‘17)
     Rollins, M. Village pest. (Ja ‘18)
     Seely, H. G. Son of the city. (D ‘17)
     Showerman, G. Country child. (D ‘17)
     Sterrett, F. R. William and Williamina. (N ‘17)
     Thurston, M. N. Sarah Ann. (N ‘17)
   =Stories for boys and girls=
     _See_ Books for boys and girls
   =Stories of the supernatural=
     Burnett, F. H. White people. (Mr ‘17)
     Mitchell, J: A. Drowsy. (O ‘17)
   =Studies of character=
     Beresford, J: D. House-mates. (O ‘17)
     Couperus, L: M. A. Twilight of the souls. (N ‘17)
     Dawson, W: J. Robert Shenstone. (O ‘17)
     Delafield, E. M. Zella sees herself. (N ‘17)
     Frank, W. D: Unwelcome man. (Mr ‘17)
     Gerould, G. H. Peter Sanders, retired. (Je ‘17)
     Keith, K. Girl. (Mr ‘17)
     Merwin, S: Temperamental Henry. (N ‘17)
     O’Sullivan, V. Good girl. (N ‘17)
     Ridge, W: P. Madame Prince. (Ap ‘17)
     Updegraff, A. Second youth. (Je ‘17)
     Wharton, E. N. Summer. (Ag ‘17)
   =Studies of social conditions=
     Bellamy, F. R. Balance. (Mr ‘17)
     Phillips, D: G. Susan Lenox. (Mr ‘17)
     Poole, E. His family. (Je ‘17)
     Richmond, G. L. Brown study. (Je ‘17)
     Sheppard, A. T. Rise of Ledgar Dunstan. (Ap ‘17)
   =Theater and stage life=
     Bell, J: K. Gay life. (Ap ‘17)
     Kobbé, G. All-of-a-sudden Carmen. (Je ‘17)
     Miller, E. Y. Blue aura. (Ja ‘18)
   =Translated stories=
     _Dutch_
       Couperus, L: M. A. Twilight of the souls. (N ‘17)
     _Flemish_
       Eekhoud, G. New Carthage. (O ‘17)
     _French_
       France, A., pseud. Human tragedy. (Ja ‘18)
     _Russian_
       _See_ Russian and Polish stories
     _Spanish_
       Lazarillo de Tormes. Life of Lazarillo de Tormes and his fortunes
          and adversities. (N ‘17)
     _Yiddish_
       Ash, M. Mottke the vagabond. (F ‘18)
   =Unclassified=
     Bain, F. W: Livery of Eve. (Jl ‘17)
     Bryce, Mrs C: Long spoon. (N ‘17)
     Cocke, S. C. Master of the hills. (O ‘17)
     Comstock, H. T. Man thou gavest. (Jl ‘17)
     Dalrymple, L. Kenny. (N ‘17)
     Daviess, M. T. Heart’s kingdom. (O ‘17)
     Fisher, M. Treloars. (N ‘17)
     Fleming, G. Diplomat. (Jl ‘17)
     Frothingham, E. B. Way of the wind. (Mr ‘17)
     Gerould, K. Change of air. (D ‘17)
     Hough, E. Broken gate. (N ‘17)
     King, B. High heart. (N ‘17)
     King, B. Lifted veil. (Mr ‘17)
     Lewis, S. Innocents. (O ‘17)
     Marion, by the author of “Me.” (My ‘17)
     Mears, M. Candid courtship. (O ‘17)
     Norris, K. Martie, the unconquered. (O ‘17)
     Oppenheim, E: P. Hillman. (Mr ‘17)
     O’Sullivan, V. Sentiment. (N ‘17)
     Rendall, V. H. London nights of Belsize. (O ‘17)
     Tompkins, E. W. Enlightenment of Paulina. (Ja ‘18)
     Wadsley, O. Conquest. (D ‘17)
     Wadsley, O. Possession. (Ap ‘17)
   =United States in war-time=
     Brown, G: R. My country. (Ag ‘17)
     Richmond, G. L. Whistling mother. (O ‘17)
   =Woman movement=
     Gale, Z. Daughter of the morning. (Ja ‘18)
     Johnston, M. Wanderers. (N ‘17)
   =Woman suffrage=
     Merwin, S:, and others. Sturdy oak. (D ‘17)

 Field crops for the cotton-belt. Morgan, J. O. (N ‘17)

 Field entrenchments. Solano, E. J:, ed. (Ja ‘18)

 Fifes and drums. (Ag ‘17)

 Fifteen thousand useful phrases. Kleiser, G. (Ja ‘18)

 Fifty years of American education. Moore, E. C. (F ‘18)

 Fight for the future. Burroughs, E: A. (My ‘17)

 Fight for the Republic. Johnson, R. (My ‘17)

 Fight for the republic in China. Weale, B. L. P., pseud. (Ja ‘18)

 Fighting for peace. Van Dyke, H: (Ja ‘18)

 Fighting men. Brooks, A. (S ‘17)

 Figures of several centuries. Symons, A. (My ‘17)

 =Finance=
   Lough, W: H: Business finance. (Jl ‘17)
   Withers, H. Our money and the state. (N ‘17)
   =Great Britain=
     Willoughby, W: F., and others. System of financial administration
        of Great Britain. (O ‘17)
   =United States=
     Collins, C: W. National budget system. (N ‘17)

 Finished. Haggard, Sir H: R. (N ‘17)

 Fire insurance. Ketcham, E: A: (Je ‘17)

 =First aid In Illness and Injury=
   Cole, N. B., and Ernst, C. H. First aid for boys. (Jl ‘17)
   Fryer, J. Mary Frances first aid book. (N ‘17)
   Mason, C: F. Complete handbook for the sanitary troops of the U.S.
      army and navy and national guard and naval militia. (N ‘17)

 First Canadians in France. Bell, F: M. (D ‘17)

 First course in general science. Barber, F: D., and others. (Jl ‘17)

 First lessons in spoken French for men in military service. Wilkins, E.
    H., and others. (Ag ‘17)

 Fishermen. Gregorovitsh, D. (N ‘17)

 =Fishes=
   Meek, A. Migrations of fish. (Je ‘17)

 =Fishing=
   Cook, C. B. Lake and stream game fishing. (N ‘17)

 Fishpingle. Vachell, H. A. (O ‘17)

 =Fiske, John (Edmund Fiske Green)= 1842-1901
   Clark, J: S. Life and letters of John Fiske. (Ja ‘18)

 =Fiske, Minnie Maddern (Mrs Harrison Grey Fiske)= 1865-
   Fiske, H. M. Mrs Fiske. (D ‘17)

 Five Babbitts at Bonnyacres. Dyer, W. A. (D ‘17)

 Five masters of French romance. Guérard, A. L. (Ap ‘17)

 Five plays. Fitzmaurice, G: (O ‘17)

 Flag. Greene, H. (Ja ‘18)

 =Flags=
   Moss, J. A., and Stewart, M. B. Our flag and its message. (N ‘17)
   Ogden, H: A. Our flag and our songs. (Ag ‘17)
   Schauffler, R. H., comp. and ed. Our flag in verse and prose. (N ‘17)

 Flame and the shadow-eater. Weaver, H. (D ‘17)

 Flaming sword in Serbia and elsewhere. Stobart, M. A. (O ‘17)

 Flemish system of poultry rearing. Jasper, Mme. (My ‘17)

 =Flour mills=
   Millar, A. Wheat and its products. (Je ‘17)

 Flower-patch among the hills. Klickmann, F. (Je ‘17)

 =Flowers=
   Beals, K. Flower lore and legend. (Ja ‘18)
   Beecroft, W. I., comp. Who’s who among the wild flowers and ferns.
      (Je ‘17)
   Coan, C. A. Fragrant note book. (O ‘17)
   Croy, M. S. 1000 hints on flowers and birds. (Ja ‘18)
   Doubleday, N. B. Wild flowers worth knowing. (Je ‘17)
   Faulkner, H. W. Mysteries of the flowers. (My ‘17)
   Keeler, H. L. Wayside flowers of summer. (Je ‘17)

 Flying for France. McConnell, J. R. (Ap ‘17)

 Flying-machine from an engineering standpoint. Lancaster, F: W: (Ja
    ‘18)

 Foes of our own household. Roosevelt, T. (O ‘17)

 Folk-element in Hindu culture. Sarkar, B. K., and Rakshit, H. K. (N
    ‘17)

 =Folk-lore=
   Barker, W. H., and Sinclair, C., eds. West African folk-tales. (N
      ‘17)
   Bosschère, J. de. Christmas tales of Flanders. (Ja ‘18)
   Dasent, Sir G: W. East o’ the sun and west o’ the moon. (My ‘17)
   Eells, E. S. Fairy tales from Brazil. (D ‘17)
   Jatakas. Jataka tales. (My ‘17)
   Judson, K. B., comp. Myths and legends of British North America. (Je
      ‘17)
   Ransome, A. Old Peter’s Russian tales. (Ja ‘18)

 =Folk-lore of the sea=
   Bassett, W. Wander-ships. (F ‘18)

 =Food=
   Abt, I: A. Baby’s food. (S ‘17)
   Bailey, E. H: S. Text-book of sanitary and applied chemistry. (O ‘17)
   Bayliss, W: M. Physiology of food and economy in diet. (N ‘17)
   Cooper, L. F. How to cut food costs. (D ‘17)
   Jordan, E. O. Food poisoning. (N ‘17)
   Kirk, A. G. Practical food economy. (S ‘17)
   Stern, F., and Spitz, G. T. Food for the worker. (Jl ‘17)
   Strouse, S., and Perry, M. A. Food for the sick. (S ‘17)
   Wellman, M. T. Food study. (Je ‘17)

 =Food adulteration and inspection=
   Bruce, E. M. Detection of the common food adulterants. (Ja ‘18)

 =Food supply=
   Kellogg, V. L., and Taylor, A. E. Food problem. (Ja ‘18)
   McCann, A. W. Thirty cent bread. (Ag ‘17)
   MacNutt, J. S. Modern milk problems. (Ag ‘17)
   O’Brien, C: Food preparedness for the United States. (Ag ‘17)

 For France. (D ‘17)

 For France. Dawson, A. J: (Ag ‘17)

 For France and the faith. Casalis, A. E. (N ‘17)

 For rent—one pedestal. Shuler, M. (S ‘17)

 For the right. (O ‘17)

 Forced to fight. Erichsen, E. (Jl ‘17)

 =Ford, Henry=, 1863-
   Lane, R. W. Henry Ford’s own story. (My ‘17)

 Ford, The. Austin, M. (My ‘17)

 Foreign policy of Woodrow Wilson, 1913-1917. Robinson, E. E., and West,
    V: J. (F ‘18)

 =Forests and forestry=
   Taylor, J. L. B. Handbook for rangers and woodsmen. (Je ‘17)

 Form and content in the Christian tradition. Sanday, W:, and Williams,
    N. P. (My ‘17)

 Form and functions of American government. Reed, T: H. (Ap ‘17)

 Former Philippines thru foreign eyes. Craig, A., ed. (Je ‘17)

 Fortnightly history of the war. Murray, A. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Fortunes of Richard Mahony. Richardson, H: H. (O ‘17)

 Foundations of Indian economics. Mukerjee, R. (N ‘17)

 Foundations of national prosperity. Ely, R: T., and others. (F ‘18)

 Four corners of the world. Mason, A. E: W. (N ‘17)

 Four days. Hemenway, H. (S ‘17)

 Four lectures on the handling of historical material. Williams, L. F:
    R. (N ‘17)

 =Fourth dimension=
   Williams, C. L. Creative involution. (Ap ‘17)

 Fragrant note book. Coan, C. A. (O ‘17)

 =France=
   Dawson, A. J: For France. (Ag ‘17)
   For France. (D ‘17)
   =Army=
     _Foreign legion_
       Kelly, R. A. Kelly of the Foreign legion. (O ‘17)
   =Biography=
     Sarolea, C: French renascence. (Je ‘17)

   =Commercial policy=
     Girault, A. Colonial tariff policy of France. (Jl ‘17)
   =Description and travel=
     Edwards, G: W. Vanished halls and cathedrals of France. (Ja ‘18)
     Fryer, E. M. Hill-towns of France. (Ja ‘18)
   =Foreign relations=
     Bracq, J. C. Provocation of France. (Ap ‘17)
   =Historic houses=
     Cook, Sir T. A. Twenty-five great houses of France. (Ap ‘17)
   =History=
     _Revolution_
       Hazen, C: D. French revolution and Napoleon. (My ‘17)
   =Intellectual life=
     Wigmore, J: H:, ed. Science and learning in France. (O ‘17)

 France bears the burden. Fortescue, G. R. (F ‘18)

 =Francis Joseph I, emperor of Austria=, 1830-1916
   Rességuier, R. M. H. B., graf. Francis Joseph and his court. (Ja ‘18)

 =Francis, M. E.=, pseud. See Blundell, M. E.

 =Franklin, Benjamin=, 1706-1790
   Bruce, W: C. Benjamin Franklin, self-revealed. (Ja ‘18)
   Oswald, J: C. Benjamin Franklin, printer. (Mr ‘17)

 Freaks of Mayfair. Benson, E: F: (N ‘17)

 =Frederick II, the Great, king of Prussia=, 1712-1786
   Catt, H. A. de. Frederick the Great. (My ‘17)

 Free speech for radicals. Schroeder, T. A. (Jl ‘17)

 =Free trade and protection=
   Grunzel, J. Economic protectionism. (Jl ‘17)

 Freedom of the seas. Grotius, H. (D ‘17)

 French criticism of American literature before 1850. Mantz, H. E. (S
    ‘17)

 =French fiction=
   Guérard, A. L. Five masters of French romance. (Ap ‘17)

 =French in the United States=
   Severance, F. H. Old frontier of France. (Jl ‘17)

 =French language=
   Coleman, A., and La Meslée, A. M. Le soldat américain en France. (N
      ‘17)
   Cross, H. Soldiers’ spoken French. (Ag ‘17)
   Plumon, E. Vade-mecum for the use of officers and interpreters in the
      present campaign. (N ‘17)
   Wilkins, E. H., and others. First lessons in spoken French for men in
      military service. (Ag ‘17)
   Willcox, C. De W. War French. (N ‘17)

 =French literature=
   Sarolea, C: French renascence. (Je ‘17)

 French renascence. Sarolea, C: (Je ‘17)

 French revolution and Napoleon. Hazen, C: D. (My ‘17)

 French windows. Ayscough, J:, pseud. (O ‘17)

 Frenzied fiction. Leacock, S. B. (F ‘18)

 =Freud, Sigmund=, 1856-
   Hitschmann, E. Freud’s theories of the neuroses. (N ‘17)

 Friends. Aumonier, S. (O ‘17)

 Friends in feathers. Porter, G. (Jl ‘17)

 From Dartmouth to the Dardanelles. (My ‘17)

 From death to life. Apukhtin, A. N. (Ja ‘18)

 From job to job around the world. Fletcher, A. C: B. (N ‘17)

 From Montreal to Vimy Ridge and beyond. Wells, C. A. (Ja ‘18)

 From the fire step. Eng title of “Over the top.” Empey, A. G.

 From the gulf to Ararat. Hubbard, G. E. (F ‘18)

 =Frontier and pioneer life=
   Carmichael, M. H., comp. Pioneer days. (D ‘17)
   Deane, R: B. Mounted police life in Canada. (Jl ‘17)
   Garland, H. Son of the middle border. (O ‘17)

 Frontier language and nationality in Europe. Dominian, L. (Jl ‘17)

 =Frontiers=
   Holdich, Sir T: H. Political frontiers and boundary making. (Ap ‘17)

 =Fruit=
   =Diseases and pests=
     Hesler, L. R., and Whetzel, H. H. Manual of fruit diseases. (O ‘17)

 Fruits of the spirit. Mabie, H. W. (My ‘17)

 =Fry, Mrs Elizabeth (Gurney)=, 1780-1845
   Richards, L. E. Elizabeth Fry—the angel of the prisons. (Je ‘17)

 Fundamental questions. King, H: C. (Ap ‘17)

 Fundamentals of botany. Gager, C: S. (Je ‘17)

 Fundamentals of naval service. Stirling, Y. (Je ‘17)

 Fungoid and insect pests of the farm. Petherbridge, F. R. (Jl ‘17)

 =Furniture=
   Bowers, R. S., and others. Furniture making. (Ap ‘17)
   Dyer, W. A. Creators of decorative styles. (D ‘17)
   Morse, F. C. Furniture of the olden time. (F ‘18)

 Further pages of my life. Carpenter, W: B. (Jl ‘17)

 =Future life=
   Hill, J: A. Psychical investigations. (O ‘17)
   Waddington, S: Some views respecting a future life. (O ‘17)

 Future of Constantinople. Woolf, L. S. (D ‘17)

 Future of militarism. Roland, pseud. (Ag ‘17)

 Future of the southern Slavs. Taylor, A. H. E. (Ja ‘18)


 =Galsworthy, John=, 1867-
   Kaye-Smith, S. John Galsworthy. (My ‘17)

 =Gálvez, José de=, 1729-1786
   Priestley, H. I. José de Gálvez. (Jl ‘17)

 Gambler. Dostoevskii, F. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Garden guide. Dick, J: H., ed. (My ‘17)

 Garden under glass. Rowles, W: F. (Ja ‘18)

 =Gardening=
   Bailey, L. H. Standard cyclopedia of horticulture. (O ‘17)
   Dick, J: H., ed. Garden guide. (My ‘17)
   Duncan, F. Joyous art of gardening. (My ‘17)
   Harding, A. Book of the peony. (Je ‘17)
   Jekyll, G. Annuals and biennials. (O ‘17)
   McMahon, J: R. Success in the suburbs. (Jl ‘17)
   Morrison, E:, and Brues, C: T: How to make the garden pay. (S ‘17)
   Rockwell, F: F. Around the year in the garden. (Ja ‘18)
   Taubenhaus, J. J. Culture and diseases of the sweet pea. (N ‘17)
   Thomas, G: C. Practical book of outdoor rose growing for the home
      garden. (S ‘17)
   _See also_ Landscape gardening; Vegetable gardening

 =Gardens=
   Fallen, J: T., ed. How to make concrete garden furniture. (F ‘18)

 =Garland, Hamlin=, 1860-
   Garland, H. Son of the middle border. (O ‘17)

 Garlands and wayfarings. Bradley, W: A. (F ‘18)

 =Gas manufacture and works=
   Meade, A. Modern gasworks practice. (D ‘17)
   Russell, W. M. Operation of gas works. (Jl ‘17)

 Gaston Olaf. Oyen, H: (D ‘17)

 Gateway to China. Gamewell, M. N. (Ap ‘17)

 Gay life. Bell, J: K. (Ap ‘17)

 Gems (?) of German thought. Archer, W:, comp. (Ag ‘17)

 =Genealogy=
   George, H. B. Genealogical tables illustrative of modern history. (Je
      ‘17)

 General physics. Franklin, W: S., and MacNutt, B. (S ‘17)

 General types of superior men. Schwarz, O. L. (O ‘17)

 Genetics and eugenics. Castle, W: E. (Jl ‘17)

 German chancellor and the outbreak of war. Headlam, J. W. (N ‘17)

 German deserter’s war experience. (Je ‘17)

 German-English dictionary for chemists. Patterson, A. M. (Jl ‘17)

 German fury in Belgium. Mokveld, L. (Jl ‘17)

 German imperialism and international law. Dampierre, L. M. M. J. de,
    marquis. (Ag ‘17)

 German spy in America. Eng title of America entangled. Jones, J: P. (N
    ‘17)

 German terror in Belgium. Toynbee, A. J. (Jl ‘17)

 Germanism from within. McLaren, A. D. (My ‘17)

 =Germans in the United States=
   Cronau, R. German achievements in America. (My ‘17)
   Jones, J: P. America entangled. (N ‘17)
   Williams, H. P. Social study of the Russian German. (Jl ‘17)

 =Germany=
   =Civilization=
     Bang, J. P: Hurrah and hallelujah. (My ‘17)
     McLaren, A. D. Germanism from within. (My ‘17)
   =Commerce=
     Gourvitch, P. P. How Germany does business. (Ja ‘18)
   =Courts and courtiers=
     Keen, E. Seven years at the Prussian court. (Mr ‘17)
   =Economic conditions=
     Dibblee, G: B. Germany’s economic position and England’s commercial
        and industrial policy after the war. (My ‘17)
     Hauser, H. Germany’s commercial grip on the world. (Je ‘17)
   =Foreign relations=
     Bracq, J. C. Provocation of France. (Ap ‘17)
     Bülow, B. H. M. K:, fürst von. Imperial Germany. (Ag ‘17)
     Lewin, P. E. German road to the East. (S ‘17)
     Prothero, G: W. German policy before the war. (Ag ‘17)
     _United States_
       Rogers, L. America’s case against Germany. (O ‘17)
       Wilson, W. Why we are at war. (Je ‘17)
   =History=
     Radziwill, C., princess. Germany under three emperors. (Ja ‘18)
     Treitschke, H. G. von. History of Germany in the nineteenth
        century. (Jl ‘17)
     Ward, Sir A. W: Germany, 1815-1890. (Ap ‘17)
   =Politics and government=
     Ackerman, C. W. Germany, the next republic? (Ag ‘17)
     Bülow, B. H. M. K:, fürst von. Imperial Germany. (Ag ‘17)
     Fernau, H. Coming democracy. (O ‘17)
     Liebknecht, K: P. A. F. Militarism. (D ‘17)
     Pollak, G. House of Hohenzollern and the Hapsburg monarchy. (S ‘17)

 Germany, the next republic? Ackerman, C. W. (Ag ‘17)

 Germany’s annexationist aims. Grumbach, S. (F ‘18)

 Germany’s commercial grip on the world. Hauser, H. (Je ‘17)

 Germany’s economic position and England’s commercial and industrial
    policy after the war. Dibblee, G: B. (My ‘17)

 =Gesture=
   Nandikeśvara. Mirror of gesture. (O ‘17)

 Getting together. Beith. J: H. (Mr ‘17)

 Giddy Mrs Goodyer. Tremlett, Mrs H. (Jl ‘17)

 Girl. Keith, K. (Mr ‘17)

 Girl next door. Seaman, A. H. (D ‘17)

 Girlhood and character. Moxcey, M. E. (Jl ‘17)

 =Girls=
   Moxcey, M. E. Girlhood and character. (Jl ‘17)
   Whetham, C. D. Upbringing of daughters. (D ‘17)

 Girls at his billet. Onions, B. R. (My ‘17)

 Give my love to Maria. Tuttle, F. G. (D ‘17)

 =Glacier national park=
   Holtz, M. E., and Bemis, K. I. Glacier national park. (Jl ‘17)

 =Glaciers=
   Meany, E. S., ed. Mount Rainier. (Jl ‘17)

 Glad of earth. Wood, C. (Je ‘17)

 =Glassware=
   Yoxall, Sir J. H: Collecting old glass. (Je ‘17)

 Glimpses of the cosmos. Ward, L. F. (F ‘18)

 =God=
   Archer, W: God and Mr Wells. (O ‘17)
   McComb, S: God’s meaning in life. (F ‘18)
   Pringle-Pattison, A. S. Idea of God in the light of recent
      philosophy. (N ‘17)
   Reeman, E. H: Do we need a new idea of God. (N ‘17)
   Wells, H. G: God, the invisible king. (Je ‘17)

 Gods in the battle. Loyson, P. H. (O ‘17)

 =Goethe, Johann Wolfgang von=, 1749-1832
   Thomas, C. Goethe. (D ‘17)

 Going abroad overland. Steele, D: M. (Mr ‘17)

 Gold cache. Schultz. J. W. (D ‘17)

 Gold must be tried by fire. Maher, R: A. (Je ‘17)

 Golden arrow. Webb, M. (Je ‘17)

 Golden Eagle. French, A. (D ‘17)

 Golden songs of the Golden state. Wilkinson, M. O. (F ‘18)

 Golden triangle. Le Blanc, M. (N ‘17)

 Golden verses of Pythagoras. Fabre d’Olivet, A., tr. (Je ‘17)

 Gone to earth. Webb, M. (O ‘17)

 Good girl. O’Sullivan, V. (N ‘17)

 Good health. Doty, A. H. (O ‘17)

 Good housing that pays. Waldo, F. L. (F ‘18)

 Good loser. Schayer, E. R: (S ‘17)

 Good ministers of Jesus Christ. McDowell, W: F. (S ‘17)

 “Good-morning, Rosamond!” Skinner, C. L. (Jl ‘17)

 Good roads year-book, 1917. American highway association. (O ‘17)

 =Goode, John Gordon=, 1864-
   Scandlin, H. W. Wicked John Goode. (Jl ‘17)

 =Gorky, Maxim, pseud. (Alexei Maximovitch Pyeshkoff)= 1868-
   Gorky, M., pseud. In the world. (O ‘17)

 =Government.= See Political science

 =Government monopolies=
   Madsen, A. W. State as manufacturer and trader. (Ap ‘17)

 Government of England. Wallace, D: D. (D ‘17)

 =Government ownership=
   Mavor, J. Government telephones. (Jl ‘17)
   Moore, W: H: Railway nationalization and the average citizen. (Ja
      ‘18)

 Government partnership in railroads. Wymond, M. (Ap ‘17)

 Grail fire. Humphrey, Z. (Ap ‘17)

 Grand opera with a victrola. Wier, A. E. (Jl ‘17)

 Granny Maumee. Torrence, R. (N ‘17)

 =Grant, Ulysses Simpson=, 1822-1885
   Coolidge, L: A. Ulysses S. Grant. (Mr ‘17)

 Grapes of wrath. Cable, B., pseud. (My ‘17)

 Grasping opportunity. Fowler, N. C., jr. (N ‘17)

 =Grayson, David=, pseud. See Baker, R. S.

 =Great Britain=
   =Army=
     Watson, F: Story of the Highland regiments. (Ag ‘17)
   =Church history=
     Faulkner, H. U. Chartism and the churches. (My ‘17)
   =Colonies=
     Alvord, C. W. Mississippi valley in British politics. (My ‘17)

     Empire and the future. (Ap ‘17)
     Hotblack, K. Chatham’s colonial policy. (Ja ‘18)
   =Commerce=
     Lucas, Sir C: P. Beginnings of English overseas enterprise. (F ‘18)
   =Court and courtiers=
     Stanley, E. Twenty years at court. (O ‘17)
   =Economic conditions=
     Dawson, W: H., ed. After-war problems. (O ‘17)
     Furniss, H: S., ed. Industrial outlook. (N ‘17)
     Hammond, J. L. L. and B. Town labourer, 1760-1832. (O ‘17)
   =Foreign relations=
     Beer, G: L: English-speaking peoples. (O ‘17)
     Bigelow, J: Breaches of Anglo-American treaties. (My ‘17)
     Egerton, H. E: British foreign policy in Europe to the end of the
        19th century. (F ‘18)
   =History=
     Colvin, I. D. Unseen hand in English history. (O ‘17)
     Corbett, J. S. England in the Mediterranean [1603-1713]. (Jl ‘17)
     Green, J: R: Short history of the English people. (Ap ‘17)
     Klein, A. J. Intolerance in the reign of Elizabeth, queen of
        England. (S ‘17)
     Pease, T. C. Leveller movement. (S ‘17)
     Slosson, P. W: Decline of the Chartist movement. (My ‘17)
     Stone, G. England from the earliest times to the Great charter. (Ap
        ‘17)
   =Industries and resources=
     Cunningham, W: Progress of capitalism in England. (N ‘17)
   =Politics and government=
     Curtis, L., ed. Commonwealth of nations. (Ag ‘17)
     Gladstone, W: E. Speeches. (S ‘17)
     Hamilton, Lord G: F. Parliamentary reminiscences and reflections,
        1868 to 1885. (S ‘17)
     Hodge, H. In the wake of the war. (O ‘17)
     Morley, J: M., viscount. Recollections. (Ja ‘18)
     Russell, G: W: E. Politics and personalities. (Ja ‘18)
     Spencer, H. Man versus the state. (Ap ‘17)
     Wallace, D: D. Government of England. (D ‘17)
   =Social conditions=
     Dawson, W: H:, ed. After-war problems. (O ‘17)
     Gardner, L., ed. Hope for society. (S ‘17)
     Gleason, A. H. Inside the British Isles. (Jl ‘17)
   =Women=
     Meikle, W. Towards a sane feminism. (N ‘17)

 Great Britain’s part. Cravath, P. D. (My ‘17)

 Great companions. Wyatt, E. F. (Je ‘17)

 Great gift. Paternoster, G: S. (D ‘17)

 Great inspirers. Zahm, J: A. (Je ‘17)

 Great possessions. Baker, R. S. (D ‘17)

 Great Russian tone-poet, Scriabin. Hull, A. E. (F ‘18)

 Great war. Allen, G: H:, and others. (Ag ‘17)

 Great white wall. Benét, W: R. (Je ‘17)

 Greater Italy. Wallace, W: K. (Jl ‘17)

 Greater than the greatest. Drummond, H. (Je ‘17)

 =Greece=
   Abbott, G: F: Turkey, Greece and the great powers. (My ‘17)
   Robinson, C. E: Days of Alkibiades. (Je ‘17)
   =Foreign relations=
     Venizelos, E. Greece in her true light. (D ‘17)

 Greek and Roman mythology. Tatlock, J. M. (My ‘17)

 =Greek drama=
   Le Grand, P. E. New Greek comedy. (N ‘17)

 Greek genius and its influence. Cooper, L., ed. (Ja ‘18)

 Greek house. Rider, B. C. (Je ‘17)

 Greek ideals. Burns, C. D. (O ‘17)

 =Greek literature=
   Cooper, L., ed. Greek genius and its influence. (Ja ‘18)

 Green fancy. McCutcheon, G: B. (O ‘17)

 Green jacket. Lee, J. B. (O ‘17)

 Green mirror. Walpole, H. (Ja ‘18)

 Green tent in Flanders. Mortimer, M. (D ‘17)

 Green trails and upland pastures. Eaton, W. P. (D ‘17)

 Green Tree mystery. Doubleday, R. (Ja ‘18)

 =Greenhouses=
   Rowles, W: F. Garden under glass. (Ja ‘18)

 Greenmantle. Buchan, J: (Mr ‘17)

 =Greenough, Mrs Marietta (McPherson).= See Green, M., pseud.

 =Greenwich village, New York (city)=
   Chapin, A. A. Greenwich village. (Ja ‘18)

 =Grenades=
   Dyson, G. Grenade fighting. (Ja ‘18)

 Grenstone poems. Bynner, W. (N ‘17)

 Grim thirteen. Greene, F: S., ed. (O ‘17)

 =Grow, Galusha Aaron=, 1823-1907
   DuBois, J. T., and Mathews, G. S. Galusha A. Grow, father of the
      homestead law. (Jl ‘17)

 =Growth=
   Thompson, D. W. On growth and form. (Ja ‘18)

 Growth in silence. Cocroft, S. (Ja ‘18)

 Growth of a legend. Langenhove, F. van. (Ap ‘17)

 Growth of medicine from the earliest times to about 1800. Buck, A. H:
    (Jl ‘17)

 =Gruyère, Counts of=
   De Koven, A. Counts of Gruyère. (Ap ‘17)

 Guide to diplomatic practice. Satow, Sir E. M. (Jl ‘17)

 Guide to the nature treasures of New York city. Pindar, G: N., and
    others. (Jl ‘17)

 Guide to the study and use of reference books. Kroeger, A. B. (Ja ‘18)

 Guide to the study of the Christian religion. Smith, G. B., ed. (Je
    ‘17)

 Gullible’s travels, etc. Lardner, R. W. (S ‘17)

 Gun-brand. Hendryx, J. B. (Je ‘17)

 =Guns (ordnance)=
   Longstaff, F: V., and Atteridge, A. H. Book of the machine gun. (Ja
      ‘18)

 =Gymnastics=
   Bolin, J. Gymnastic problems. (S ‘17)


 Hadda Padda. Kamban, G. (F ‘18)

 =Hale, Edward Everett=, 1822-1909
   Hale, E: E., jr. Life and letters of Edward Everett Hale. (F ‘18)

 Half hours with the Idiot. Bangs, J: K. (O ‘17)

 =Hall, Holworthy=, pseud. See Porter, H. E.

 Hallow-e’en. Letts, W. M. (S ‘17)

 Hand of Fu-Manchu. Rohmer, S., pseud. (S ‘17)

 Handbook for rangers and woodsmen. Taylor, J. L. B. (Je ‘17)

 Handbook of American private schools. Sargent, P. E: (O ‘17)

 Handbook of military signaling. Giddings, H. A., comp. (F ‘18)

 Handbook of oral reading. Bassett, L. E. (Je ‘17)

 Handbook of the association cafeteria. Geary, B. (N ‘17)

 Handbook of the new thought. Dresser, H. W. (Je ‘17)

 Handbook on story writing. Williams, B. C. (Ja ‘18)

 Handicaps of childhood. Bruce, H: A. B. (D ‘17)

 =Handicraft=
   Bowers, R. S. Drawing and design for craftsmen. (Ap ‘17)
   Bowers, R. S., and others. Furniture making. (Ap ‘17)

   Buchanan, F. Home crafts of today and yesterday. (O ‘17)
   Perry, L. D. Seat weaving. (Ag ‘17)

 Handy home book. Collins, A. F: (Jl ‘17)

 =Happiness=
   Stanton, S. B. Hidden happiness. (Ap ‘17)

 Happy. McCaleb, W. F. (Jl ‘17)

 =Hardy, Thomas=, 1840-
   Berle, L. W. George Eliot and Thomas Hardy. (Ja ‘18)
   =Bibliography=
     Webb, A. P., comp. Bibliography of the works of Thomas Hardy,
        1865-1915. (Ap ‘17)

 =Hare, Robert=, 1781-1858
   Smith, E. F. Life of Robert Hare. (N ‘17)

 =Hart, Virgil Chittenden=, 1840-1904
   Hart, E. I. Virgil C. Hart: missionary statesman. (Jl ‘17)

 =Hawaiian Islands=
   Castle, W: R., jr. Hawaii, past and present. (Je ‘17)
   London, C. K. Our Hawaii. (F ‘18)
   =Description and travel=
     Anderson, I. Spell of the Hawaiian Islands and the Philippines. (Ap
        ‘17)

 Hawaiian legends of volcanoes. Westervelt, W: D., comp. and tr. (Ap
    ‘17)

 =Hay, Ian=, pseud. See Beith, J: H.

 Health and disease. Lee, R. I. (Je ‘17)

 Health first. Chapin, H: D. (O ‘17)

 Healthful house. Robertson, L., and O’Donnell, T: C. (Ja ‘18)

 Heap o’ livin’. Guest, E. A. (Je ‘17)

 Heart of Her Highness. Laughlin, C. F. (D ‘17)

 Heart of Isabel Carleton. Ashmun, M. E. (D ‘17)

 Heart of O Sono San. Cooper, E. (Ja ‘18)

 Heart of the Balkans. Brown, D. (Jl ‘17)

 Heart of the Puritan. Hanscom, E. D., ed. (Ja ‘18)

 Heart to heart appeals. Bryan, W: J. (S ‘17)

 Heart’s kingdom. Daviess, M. T. (O ‘17)

 Hearts undaunted. Atkinson, E. (Ja ‘18)

 Helen of Four Gates. (S ‘17)

 =Henderson-Smith, Mrs E.= See Klickmann, F.

 Her own sort. Davis, C: B. (My ‘17)

 Here and there in the war area. Bury, H. (Jl ‘17)

 =Heredity=
   Castle, W: E. Genetics and eugenics. (Jl ‘17)

 Heroes of the American revolution. Clay, O. (Ap ‘17)

 Heroes of to-day. Parkman, M. R. (D ‘17)

 Heroines of service. Parkman, M. R. (D ‘17)

 Herself, himself and myself. Sawyer, R. (N ‘17)

 Hidden happiness. Stanton, S. B. (Ap ‘17)

 Hiding-places. French, A. (Ap ‘17)

 High cost of living. Howe, F: C. (Ja ‘18)

 High heart. King, B. (N ‘17)

 High school prize speaker. Snow, W: L., ed. (Je ‘17)

 =High schools=
   Smith, F. W. High school. (Ja ‘18)

 Higher education and the war. Burnet, J: (D ‘17)

 =Highland regiments=
   Watson, F: Story of the Highland regiments. (Ag ‘17)

 Highway of death. Downer, E. B. (Ap ‘17)

 Highwayman. Bailey, H: C. (Jl ‘17)

 Highways and byways in Nottinghamshire. Firth, J: B: (My ‘17)

 =Hill, James Jerome=, 1838-1916
   Pyle, J. G. Life of James J. Hill. (S ‘17)

 Hill-towns of France. Fryer, E. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Hillman. Oppenheim, E: P. (Mr ‘17)

 Hindu mind training. (S ‘17)

 =Hinduism=
   Sarkar, B. K., and Rakshit, H. K. Folk-element in Hindu culture. (N
      ‘17)

 =Hinkson, Katharine (Tynan) (Mrs Henry Albert Hinkson)=, 1861-
   Hinkson, K. Middle years. (My ‘17)

 Hints on landscape gardening. Pückler-Muskau, H. L. H., fürst von. (D
    ‘17)

 His family. Poole, E. (Je ‘17)

 His last bow. Doyle, Sir A. C. (N ‘17)

 His one talent. Eng title of Brandon of the Engineers. Bindloss, H. (Mr
    ‘17)

 His own country. Kester, P. (S ‘17)

 =Historians=
   Bassett, J: S. Middle group of American historians. (Mr ‘17)

 Historic silver of the colonies and its makers. Bigelow, F. H. (D ‘17)

 Historical development of religion in China. Clennell, W. J. (O ‘17)

 Historical introduction to social economy. Chapin, F. S. (D ‘17)

 =History=
   Marvin, F. S., ed. Progress and history. (Jl ‘17)
   Williams, L. F: R. Four lectures on the handling of historical
      material. (N ‘17)
   =Philosophy=
     Mathews, S. Spiritual interpretation of history. (Je ‘17)

 =History, Ancient=
   Rawlinson. H. G: Intercourse between India and the western world. (Jl
      ‘17)

 History of American journalism. Lee, J. M. (F ‘18)

 History of Europe from 1862 to 1914. Holt, L. H., and Chilton, A. W. (F
    ‘18)

 History of Germany in the nineteenth century. Treitschke, H. G. von.
    (Jl ‘17)

 History of manufactures in the United States, 1607-1860. Clark, V: S.
    (Ap ‘17)

 History of medieval Europe. Thorndike, L. (D ‘17)

 History of mediaeval Jewish philosophy. Husik, I: (Je ‘17)

 History of Poland. Whitton, F: E. (F ‘18)

 History of Serbia. Temperley, H. W: V. (S ‘17)

 History of Tammany Hall. Myers, G. (D ‘17)

 History of the Civil war, 1861-1865. Rhodes, J. F. (Ja ‘18)

 History of the great war, v. 2. Doyle, Sir A. C. (O ‘17)

 History of the Irish rebellion of 1916. Wells, W. B., and Marlowe, N.
    (Ja ‘18)

 History of the Jews in Russia and Poland. Dubnov, S. M. (Ap ‘17)

 History of the Sinn Fein movement and the Irish rebellion of 1916.
    Jones, F. P. (F ‘18)

 History of the United States since the Civil war. Oberholtzer, E. P.
    (Ja ‘18)

 History of Williams college. Spring, L. W. (O ‘17)

 =Hodgkin, Thomas=, 1831-1913
   Creighton, L. Life and letters of Thomas Hodgkin. (F ‘18)

 Hohenzollerns through German eyes. (O ‘17)

 =Hoisting machinery=
   Zimmer, G: F: Mechanical handling and storing of material. (Jl ‘17)

 Holiday in Umbria. Jackson, Sir T: G. (N ‘17)

 =Holidays=
   McSpadden, J. W. Book of holidays. (Ja ‘18)

 =Holland=
   De Groot, C. When I was a girl in Holland. (D ‘17)

 Home and its management. Kittredge, M. H. (Jl ‘17)

 Home crafts of today and yesterday. Buchanan, F. (O ‘17)

 =Home economics=
   Donham, S. A. Marketing and household manual. (Ja ‘18)
   Franks, T. Household organization for war service. (Jl ‘17)
   Franks, T. Margin of happiness. (N ‘17)
   Green, L. Effective small home. (My ‘17)
   Kinne, H., and Cooley, A. M. Home and the family. (Je ‘17)
   Kittredge, M. H. Home and its management. (Jl ‘17)
   Prince, J. Letters to a young housekeeper. (Mr ‘17)
   Scott, R. C. Home labor saving devices. (Ag ‘17)
     _See also_ Cookery

   =Accounting=
     Sheaffer, W: A. Household accounting and economics. (F ‘18)

 Home labor saving devices. Scott, R. C. (Ag ‘17)

 Home nurse’s handbook of practical nursing. Aikens, C. A. (Je ‘17)

 Home of the countryside. Young men’s Christian associations.
    International committee. (S ‘17)

 =Homestead law=
   DuBois, J. T., and Mathews, G. S. Galusha A. Grow, father of the
      homestead law. (Jl ‘17)

 “Honest Abe.” Rothschild, A. (N ‘17)

 Honest lawyer. McFadden, G. V. (My ‘17)

 Hope. Cunninghame Graham, R. B. (F ‘18)

 Hope in suffering. Klein, F. (O ‘17)

 Hope for society. Gardner, L., ed. (S ‘17)

 =Horace (Quintus Horatius Flaccus)= 65-8 B. C.
   Cooper, L., ed. Concordance to the works of Horace. (O ‘17)
   D’Alton, J. F. Horace and his age. (D ‘17)

 Hornet’s nest. Woodrow, N. M. (Ap ‘17)

 =Horses=
   Merwin, H: C. Horse. (Jl ‘17)

 =Horticulture=
   Bailey, L. H. Standard cyclopedia of horticulture. (O ‘17)

 Hostage in Germany. Desson, G. (F ‘18)

 =House decoration=
   Green, L. Effective small home. (My ‘17)
   Izor, E. P. Costume design and home planning. (Ap ‘17)
   Kinne, H., and Cooley, A. M. Home and the family. (Je ‘17)
   Robertson, L., and O’Donnell, T: C. Healthful house. (Ja ‘18)
   Rolfe, A. L. Interior decoration for the small home. (My ‘17)
   Wright, A. Interior decoration for modern needs. (D ‘17)

 House of Hohenzollern and the Hapsburg monarchy. Pollak, G. (S ‘17)

 House with the mezzanine. Chekhov, A. P. (N ‘17)

 Household accounting and economics. Sheaffer, W: A. (F ‘18)

 Household manufactures in the United States, 1640-1860. Tryon, R. M. (S
    ‘17)

 Household organization for war service. Franks, T. (Jl ‘17)

 Housekeeper’s apple book. Mackay, L. G. (F ‘18)

 House-mates. Beresford, J: D. (O ‘17)

 =Housing problem=
   Waldo, F. L. Good housing that pays. (F ‘18)

 How could you, Jean? Brainerd, E. (D ‘17)

 How Germany does business. Gourvitch, P. P. (Ja ‘18)

 How to advertise. French, G: (Jl ‘17)

 How to avoid infection. Chapin, C: V. (O ‘17)

 How to build mental power. Kleiser, G. (F ‘18)

 How to choose the right vocation. Merton, H. W. (N ‘17)

 How to cut food costs. Cooper, L. F. (D ‘17)

 How to debate. Shurter, E. D. (D ‘17)

 How to develop your personality. Major, C. T. (Ja ‘18)

 How to do business with Russia. Petersson, C. E. W. (D ‘17)

 How to get ahead. Atwood, A. W: (Mr ‘17)

 How to live at the front. MacQuarrie, H. (O ‘17)

 How to make concrete garden furniture and accessories. Fallon, J: T.,
    ed. (F ‘18)

 How to make the garden pay. Morrison, E:, and Brues, C: T: (S ‘17)

 How to produce amateur plays. Clark, B. H. (O ‘17)

 How to read. Kerfoot, J. B. (Ag ‘17)

 How to rest. Howard, W: L. (N ‘17)

 How to run an automobile. Pagé, V: W. (Jl ‘17)

 How to study architecture. Caffin, C: H: (D ‘17)

 How to teach. Strayer, G: D., and Norsworthy, N. (S ‘17)

 How to write for moving pictures. Bertsch, M. (O ‘17)

 =Howard, Keble=, pseud. See Bell, J: K.

 =Howells, William Dean=, 1837-
   Harvey, A. William Dean Howells. (O ‘17)

 Hoyle up-to-date. Foster, R. F:, ed. (Je ‘17)

 Human drift. London, J. (Mr ‘17)

 Human physiology. Stiles, P. G. (Jl ‘17)

 Human side of birds. Dixon, R. (Ja ‘18)

 Human side of trees. Dixon, R., and Fitch, F. E. (My ‘17)

 Human tragedy. France, A., pseud. (Ja ‘18)

 Human welfare work in Chicago. Carbaugh, H. C., ed. (Je ‘17)

 =Humphreys, David=, 1752-1818
   Humphreys, F. L. Life and times of David Humphreys. (Jl ‘17)

 Hundredth chance. Dell, E. M. (Jl ‘17)

 Hurrah and hallelujah. Bang, J. P: (My ‘17)

 =Hydraulic engineering=
   Lyndon, L. Hydro-electric power. (Je ‘17)

 =Hydraulics=
   Slocum, S. E. Elements of hydraulics. (S ‘17)

 =Hydroelectric plants=
   Taylor, W: T:, and Braymer, D. H. American hydroelectric practice. (D
      ‘17)

 Hydro-electric power. Lyndon, L. (Je ‘17)

 =Hygiene=
   Bacon, G: W. Keeping young and well. (Ja ‘18)
   Bowers, E. F: Bathing for health. (Jl ‘17)
   Chapin, H: D. Health first. (O ‘17)
   Doty, A. H. Good health. (O ‘17)
   Galbraith, A. M. Personal hygiene and physical training for women.
      (Je ‘17)
   Lee, R. I. Health and disease. (Je ‘17)
   Rosenau, M. J. Preventive medicine and hygiene. (Ja ‘18)
   Winslow, K. Prevention of disease. (My ‘17)

 =Hygiene, Industrial.= See Occupations—Diseases and hygiene

 Hygiene in Mexico. Pani, A. J. (Mr ‘17)


 I sometimes think. Paget, S. (Jl ‘17)

 Ibant obscuri. Bridges, R. (O ‘17)

 Idea of God in the light of recent philosophy. Pringle-Pattison, A. S.
    (N ‘17)

 Ideal passion. Woodberry, G: E: (D ‘17)

 =Idealism=
   Sinclair, M. Defence of idealism. (D ‘17)

 Ideals of painting. Carr, J. W: C. (Je ‘17)

 Idle days in Patagonia. Hudson, W: H: (Mr ‘17)

 If I were twenty-one. Maxwell, W: M. (D ‘17)

 =Illinois. University=
   Nevins, J. A. Illinois. (N ‘17)

 =Illustration of books=
   Eastman, M. Journalism versus art. (Je ‘17)

 Illustrative handwork for elementary school subjects. Dobbs, E. V. (N
    ‘17)

 Immediate causes of the great war. Chitwood, O. P. (Jl ‘17)

 =Immigrants=
   Abbott, G. Immigrant and the community. (Je ‘17)
   Ravage, M. E. American in the making. (D ‘17)
   Talbot, W., comp. Americanization. (F ‘18)
   Williams, H. P. Social study of the Russian German. (Jl ‘17)

 =Immigration=
   Reely, M. K., comp. Selected articles on immigration. (Mr ‘17)

 =Immortality=
   Leuba, J. H: Belief in God and immortality. (Je ‘17)
   Mackintosh, H. R. Immortality and the future. (O ‘17)
   Streeter, B. H., and others. Immortality. (F ‘18)

 =Imperial federation=
   Hodge, H. In the wake of the war. (O ‘17)

 Imperial Germany. Bülow, B. H. M. K:, fürst von. (Ag ‘17)

 In a little town. Hughes, R. (Mr ‘17)

 In Canada’s wonderful northland. Curran, W: T., and Calkins, H. A. (Ap
    ‘17)

 In far north-east Siberia. Shklovskii, I. V. (Ap ‘17)

 In German hands. Hennebois, C: (F ‘18)

 In good company. Kernahan, C. (Jl ‘17)

 In Greek seas. Hardy, O. H: (D ‘17)

 In Happy Valley. Fox, J: (O ‘17)

 In the claws of the German eagle. Williams, A. R. (Je ‘17)

 In the footsteps of St Paul. Clark, F. E: (F ‘18)

 In the night. Gorell, R. G. B., 3d baron. (O ‘17)

 In the wake of the war. Hodge, H. (O ‘17)

 In the war. Smidovich, V. V. (Je ‘17)

 In the wilderness. Hichens, R. S. (Mr ‘17)

 In the world. Gorky, M., pseud. (O ‘17)

 In these latter days. Bancroft, H. H. (Ja ‘18)

 =Income tax=
   Montgomery, R. H. Income tax procedure, 1917. (Je ‘17)
   Phelps, E. M., comp. Selected articles on the income tax. (Ja ‘18)

 =Indexes=
   Faxon, F: W., ed. Annual magazine subject-index, 1916. (My ‘17)

 =India=
   =Economic conditions=
     Mukerjee, R. Foundations of Indian economics. (N ‘17)
   =History=
     Rawlinson, H. G: Intercourse between India and the western world.
        (Jl ‘17)
   =Politics and government=
     Lajpat Raya. England’s debt to India. (F ‘18)
   =Religion=
     Whitehead, H: Village gods of South India. (Ap ‘17)
   =Social life and customs=
     Benton, A. H. Indian moral instruction and caste problems. (S ‘17)

 Indian drum. MacHarg, W:, and Balmer, E. (N ‘17)

 Indian [mythology]; Iranian [mythology]. Keith, A. B., and Carnoy, A.
    J. (Ap ‘17)

 =Indians of North America=
   Carmichael, M. H., comp. Pioneer days. (D ‘17)
   Miner, W: H. American Indians, north of Mexico. (F ‘18)
   =Antiquities=
     Moorehead, W. K. Stone ornaments used by Indians in the United
        States and Canada. (N ‘17)
   =Legends=
     Judson, K. B., comp. Myths and legends of British North America.
        (Je ‘17)
     Judson, K. B. Old Crow stories. (D ‘17)
     Olcott, F. J. Red Indian fairy book. (D ‘17)

 Industrial and artistic technology of paint and varnish. Sabin, A. H.
    (Je ‘17)

 =Industrial arts=
   Collins, A. F: Handy home book. (Jl ‘17)
   Schmidt, W. K: Problems of the finishing room. (Jl ‘17)

 Industrial outlook. Furniss, H: S., ed. (N ‘17)

 =Industry=
   =History=
     Hobson, J: A. Evolution of modern capitalism. (Ja ‘18)

 =Infants=
   =Care and hygiene=
     Cooke, J. B. Baby, before and after arrival. (Je ‘17)
     Kinne, H., and Cooley, A. M. Home and the family. (Je ‘17)

 =Infection=
   Chapin, C: V. How to avoid infection. (O ‘17)

 Inn of disenchantment. Tarleau, L. Y. (N ‘17)

 Inner door. Sullivan, A. (O ‘17)

 =Inness, George=, 1825-1894
   Inness, G:, jr. Life, art, and letters of George Inness. (D ‘17)

 Innocents. Lewis, S. (O ‘17)

 =Inns=
   Endell, F. A. G. Old tavern signs. (Ap ‘17)

 Inquiry into the nature of peace and the terms of its perpetuation.
    Veblen, T. B. (Jl ‘17)

 =Insects=
   Fabre, J. H. C. Insect adventures. (Ja ‘18)
   Fabre, J. H. C. Life of the grasshopper. (My ‘17)
   Shipley, A. E. Studies in insect life. (N ‘17)

 =Insects, Injurious and beneficial=
   Conradi, A. F:, and Thomas, W: A. Farm spies. (Jl ‘17)

 Inside the British Isles. Gleason, A. H. (Jl ‘17)

 Inside the German empire. Swope, H. B. (Mr ‘17)

 Inside the Russian revolution. Dorr, R. (F ‘18)

 Inspector-general. Gogol, N. V. (My ‘17)

 =Insurance, Employers’ liability=
   Blanchard, R. H. Liability and compensation insurance. (D ‘17)

 =Insurance, Fire=
   Gephart, W: F. Principles of insurance. (My ‘17)
   Ketcham, E: A: Fire insurance. (Je ‘17)

 =Insurance, Industrial=
   Woodbury, R. M. Social insurance. (N ‘17)

 =Insurance, Life=
   Gephart, W: F. Principles of insurance. (My ‘17)
   Horner, W. M. Training for a life insurance agent. (S ‘17)

 Insurgent theatre. Dickinson, T: H. (D ‘17)

 Intercourse between India and the western world. Rawlinson, H. G: (Jl
    ‘17)

 Interior decoration for modern needs. Wright, A. (D ‘17)

 Interior decoration for the small home. Rolfe, A. L. (My ‘17)

 Interior wiring and systems for electric light and power service. Cook,
    A. L. (Je ‘17)

 Interlopers. Bancroft, G. (O ‘17)

 International conventions and third states. Roxburgh, R. F. (Ja ‘18)

 =International cooperation=
   Branford, B. Janus and Vesta. (S ‘17)
   Jones, J. L. Love for the battle-torn peoples. (Ap ‘17)

 =International law and relations=
   Brown, P. M. International realities. (Mr ‘17)
   Dampierre, L. M. M. J. de, marquis. German imperialism and
      international law. (Ag ‘17)
   Davis, G: B. Elements of international law. (Je ‘17)
   League to enforce peace. Enforced peace. (Ap ‘17)
   Muir, R. Nationalism and internationalism. (Ap ‘17)
   Richard, P. To the nations. (My ‘17)
   Roxburgh, R. F. International conventions and third states. (Ja ‘18)
   Smith, Sir F: E. Destruction of merchant ships under international
      law. (N ‘17)
   Wright, P. Q. Enforcement of international law through municipal law
      in the United States. (Jl ‘17)

 International military digest annual, 1916. (Jl ‘17)

 Interpreters and interpretations. Van Vechten, C. (Ja ‘18)

 Intolerance in the reign of Elizabeth, queen of England. Klein, A. J.
    (S ‘17)

 Introduction to a biology. Darbishire, A. D. (Jl ‘17)

 Introduction to astronomy. Moulton, F. R. (Je ‘17)

 Introduction to educational sociology. Smith, W. R. (S ‘17)

 Introduction to rural sociology. Vogt, P. L. (O ‘17)

 Introduction to social psychology. Ellwood, C: A. (Je ‘17)

 Introduction to sociology. Bogardus, E. S. (Ja ‘18)

 Introduction to the history of science. Libby, W. (Je ‘17)

 Introduction to the Old Testament. Creelman, H. (D ‘17)

 Introduction to the theory and practice of boot and shoe manufacture.
    Plucknett, F. (Je ‘17)

 Invasion and the war in Belgium. Essen, L. van der. (N ‘17)

 =Inventions and Inventors=
   Corbin, T: W. Marvels of scientific invention. (My ‘17)
   Towers, W. K. Masters of space. (Mr ‘17)

 =Invertebrates=
   Pratt, H: S. Manual of the common invertebrate animals. (Ap ‘17)

 =Investments=
   Atwood, A. W: How to get ahead. (Mr ‘17)

 =Ireland=
   Barker, E. Ireland in the last fifty years (1866-1916). (Je ‘17)
   =Economic conditions=
     Connolly, J. Labour in Ireland. (O ‘17)
     Russell, G: W: National being. (Ap ‘17)
   =Education=
     Corcoran, T., comp. State policy in Irish education. (O ‘17)
   =History=
     Bagwell, R: Ireland under the Stuarts and during the interregnum.
        (S ‘17)
     Maxwell, C. Short history of Ireland. (Jl ‘17)
     O’Brien, P: O., baron. Reminiscences of the Right Hon. Lord O’Brien
        (of Kilfenora). (Je ‘17)
     _Revolt of 1916_
       Jones, F. P. History of the Sinn Fein movement and the Irish
          rebellion of 1916. (F ‘18)
       Norway, M. L. Sinn Fein rebellion as I saw it. (Jl ‘17)
       Skinnider, M. Doing my bit for Ireland. (Ag ‘17)
       Wells, W. B., and Marlowe, N. History of the Irish rebellion of
          1916. (Ja ‘18)
   =Politics and government=
     Beith, J: H. Oppressed English. (Ag ‘17)
     Hamilton, Lord E. W: Soul of Ulster. (S ‘17)
     Russell, G: W:, and others. Irish home-rule convention. (O ‘17)

 =Irish drama=
   Boyd, E. A: Contemporary drama of Ireland. (Mr ‘17)

 Irish home-rule convention. Russell, G: W:, and others. (O ‘17)

 =Irish literature=
   Morris, L. R. Celtic dawn. (Ap ‘17)
   Pearse, P. H. Collected works. (O ‘17)

 =Irish poetry=
   White, A. C., ed. Little book of Irish verse. (Ap ‘17)

 =Irrigation=
   Davis, A. P. Irrigation works constructed by the United States
      government. (Ja ‘18)
   Harding, S. T. Operation and maintenance of irrigation systems. (F
      ‘18)
   James, G: W. Reclaiming the arid West. (Ja ‘18)

 Is Christianity practicable? Brown, W: A. (Je ‘17)

 Is civilization a disease? Coit, S. (Jl ‘17)

 Is war civilization? Nyrop, K. (Ja ‘18)

 Island of Appledore. Aldon, A. (D ‘17)

 Issue, The. Headlam, J. W. (Mr ‘17)

 =Italian language=
   Waller, E. English-Italian phrase book for social workers. (Ap ‘17)

 =Italy=
   =Description and travel=
     Jackson, Sir T: G. Holiday in Umbria. (N ‘17)
   =History=
     Carnovale, L. Why Italy entered into the great war. (N ‘17)
     Jamison, E. M., and others. Italy, mediaeval and modern. (O ‘17)
     Wallace, W: K. Greater Italy. (Jl ‘17)

 Italy and the war. Bainville, J. (My ‘17)

 Italy at war. Vivian, H. (O ‘17)

 Italy at war and the Allies in the west. Powell, E. A. (Je ‘17)

 Italy, France and Britain at war. Wells, H. G: (Mr ‘17)

 Italy in the war. Low, S. J. M. (My ‘17)

 Ivory tower. James, H: (Ja ‘18)


 =Jackson, Thomas Jonathan=, 1824-1863
   Arnold, T: J. Early life and letters of General Thomas J. Jackson,
      “Stonewall” Jackson. (Ap ‘17)

 =James, Henry=, 1843-1916
   James, H: Middle years. (Ja ‘18)

 =James, William=, 1842-1910
   Flournoy, T. Philosophy of William James. (Ap ‘17)

 =Jameson, Mrs Annie Edith (Foster).= See Buckrose, J. E., pseud.

 Jan and her job. Harker, L. A. (My ‘17)

 Janus and Vesta. Branford, B. (S ‘17)

 Jap Herron. Hutchings, E. G. (N ‘17)

 =Japan=
   Pooley, A. M. Japan at the cross roads. (Ja ‘18)
   =Description and travel=
     Bell, A. Trip to Lotus Land. (Ja ‘18)
     Champney, E. and F. Romance of old Japan. (Ja ‘18)
     Hitchcock, A. M. Over Japan way. (F ‘18)
     Morse, E: S. Japan day by day. (Ja ‘18)
   =Foreign relations=
     Federal council of the churches of Christ in America. Library of
        Christian cooperation, v. 4. (Je ‘17)
     Flowers, M. Japanese conquest of American opinion. (Mr ‘17)
     Kawakami, K. K: Japan in world politics. (S ‘17)
     McCormick, F: Menace of Japan. (Ap ‘17)

 Japanese conquest of American opinion. Flowers, M. (Mr ‘17)

 =Japanese drama=
   Fenollosa, E. F., and Pound, E. L. Noh. (N ‘17)
   Takeda Izumo. Pine-tree. (My ‘17)

 =Japanese in the United States=
   Steiner, J. F: Japanese invasion. (Ap ‘17)

 Jataka tales. Jatakas. (My ‘17)

 =Jaurès, Jean Léon=, 1859-1914
   Pease, M. Jean Jaurès. (O ‘17)

 =Jeremiah=
   Longacre, L. B. Prophet of the Spirit. (Ja ‘18)

 =Jerome, Saint (Eusebius Hieronymus)=, 340?-420
   Zahm, J: A. Great inspirers. (Je ‘17)

 Jerry. Pier, A. S. (Mr ‘17)

 Jerry of the Islands. London, J. (My ‘17)

 =Jesus Christ=
   Brown, C: R. Master’s way. (My ‘17)
   Glover, T. R. Jesus of history. (Je ‘17)
   Hall, G. S. Jesus, the Christ, in the light of psychology. (Jl ‘17)
   Orchard, W: E. Necessity of Christ. (Jl ‘17)
   Relton, H. M. Study in Christology. (Ja ‘18)
   Skrine, J: H. Survival of Jesus. (D ‘17)
   =Biography=
     Gilbert, G: H. Jesus for the men of today. (Ja ‘18)
     Sharman, H: B. Records of the life of Jesus. (F ‘18)
   =Poetry=
     Crow, M., comp. Christ in the poetry of today. (O ‘17)
   =Teaching=
     Henry, F. A: Jesus and the Christian religion. (My ‘17)
     Kent, C: F. Social teachings of the prophets and Jesus. (Jl ‘17)
     Rihbany, A. M. Militant American and Jesus Christ. (F ‘18)

 =Jewelry=
   Kunz, G: F: Rings for the finger. (Ap ‘17)

 Jewish disabilities in the Balkan states. Kohler, M. J., and Wolf, S.
    (My ‘17)

 Jewish philanthropy. Bogen, B. D. (N ‘17)

 =Jews=
   Goodman, P., and Lewis, A. D., eds. Zionism. (My ‘17)
     Sacher, H., ed. Zionism and the Jewish future. (Ap ‘17)
   =History=
     Wild, L. H. Evolution of the Hebrew people and their influence on
        civilization. (Ja ‘18)
   =Religion=
     Fowler, H: T. Origin and growth of the Hebrew religion. (S ‘17)

 =Jews in Poland=
   Dubnov, S. M. History of the Jews in Russia and Poland. (Ap ‘17)

 =Jews in Russia=
   Dubnov, S. M. History of the Jews in Russia and Poland. (Ap ‘17)
   Gorky, M., pseud., and others, eds. Shield. (Jl ‘17)

 =Jews in the Balkan states=
   Kohler, M. J., and Wolf, S. Jewish disabilities in the Balkan states.
      (My ‘17)

 =Jews in the United States=
   May, M. B: Isaac Mayer Wise. (Ap ‘17)
   =Charities=
     Bogen, B. D. Jewish philanthropy. (N ‘17)

 Jig of Forslin. Aiken, C. P. (Mr ‘17)

 Jimmy’s wife. Champion, J. (My ‘17)

 Joan. Barr, A. E. (Mr ‘17)

 Joan and the babies and I. Hamilton, C. (My ‘17)

 Job. Lewis, S. (Mr ‘17)

 Joe Muller, detective. Groner, A. (D ‘17)

 John and his writings. Hayes, D. A. (Je ‘17)

 Journal. Tolstoi, L. N., count. (N ‘17)

 Journal from our legation in Belgium. Gibson, H. (N ‘17)

 Journal of small things. Mackay, H. G. (Ap ‘17)

 Journal of submarine commander von Forstner. Forstner, G. G., freiherr
    von. (Ja ‘18)

 =Journalism=
   Bing, P. C. Country weekly. (F ‘18)
   Eastman, M. Journalism versus art. (Je ‘17)
   Lee, J. M. History of American journalism. (F ‘18)
   Simonis, H. Street of ink. (S ‘17)

 Joyful years. Wawn, F. J. (O ‘17)

 Joyous art of gardening. Duncan, F. (My ‘17)

 Judgment of the Orient. K’ung Yuan Ku’ush. (My ‘17)

 =Judson, Edward=, 1844-1914

 Sears, C: H. Edward Judson, interpreter of God. (D ‘17)

 =Jumel, Mme Eliza (Bowen)= 1775?-1865
   Shelton, W: H: Jumel mansion. (Ap ‘17)

 Junior Plattsburg manual. Garey, E. B., and Ellis, O. O. (S ‘17)

 =Justice, Administration of=
   Goldman, M. C. Public defender. (My ‘17)

 Justice to all. Mayo, K. (Mr ‘17)

 Justification of God. Forsyth, P: T. (Jl ‘17)


 Kate plus 10. Wallace, E. (N ‘17)

 =Keats, John=, 1795-1821
   Colvin, Sir S. John Keats. (Ja ‘18)

 Keeping young and well. Bacon, G: W. (Ja ‘18)

 Kelly of the Foreign legion. Kelly, R. A. (O ‘17)

 Kenny. Dalrymple, L. (N ‘17)

 =Kentucky=
   =Social life and customs=
     Mutzenberg, C: G. Kentucky’s famous feuds and tragedies. (N ‘17)

 Kiddies. Bell, J: J. (Ja ‘18)

 =Kimball, James Peleg=, 1840-1902
   Kimball, M. Soldier-doctor of our army, James P. Kimball. (Jl ‘17)

 King Coal. Sinclair, U. B. (O ‘17)

 King in Babylon. Stevenson, B. E. (N ‘17)

 =Kingsley, Charlotte May=, pseud. See Hanshew, T: W.

 =Kitchener of Khartum, Horatio Herbert Kitchener, earl=, 1850-1916
   Davray, H: D. Lord Kitchener. (S ‘17)
   Grew, E. S. Field-Marshal Lord Kitchener. (Je ‘17)
   Le Bas, Sir H. F. Lord Kitchener memorial book. (Je ‘17)

 Kitchenette cookery. East, A. M. (Jl ‘17)

 Kleath. Macbeth, M. H. (S ‘17)

 =Kravchinskii, Sergiei Mikhailovich.= See Stepniak, pseud.

 Kultur in cartoons. Raemaekers, L: (Ja ‘18)

 =Kurdistan=
   Hubbard, G. E. From the gulf to Ararat. (F ‘18)


 =Labor and laboring classes=
   Brassey, T: B., 1st earl. Work and wages. (Ap ‘17)
   Ward, H. F: Labor movement from the standpoint of religious values.
      (N ‘17)
   =United States=
     Lauck, W: J., and Sydenstricker, E. Conditions of labor in American
        industries. (Je ‘17)

 =Labor disputes=
   Academy of political science. Labor disputes and public service
      corporations. (Jl ‘17)

 Labor movement from the standpoint of religious values. Ward, H. F: (N
    ‘17)

 Laboratory guide of industrial chemistry. Rogers, A. (D ‘17)

 Labour in Ireland. Connolly, J. (O ‘17)

 Ladies must live. Miller, A. (O ‘17)

 Lady of kingdoms. Irwin, I. (N ‘17)

 Lady with the dog. Chekhov, A. P. (N ‘17)

 Lake and stream game fishing. Cooke, C. B. (N ‘17)

 Land of deepening shadow. Curtin, D. T: (Je ‘17)

 Land of enough. Jefferson, C: E: (Ja ‘18)

 Land of the prophets. Heusser, A. H: (My ‘17)

 Land of two rivers. Bevan, E. R. (F ‘18)

 =Landscape gardening=
   Dean, R. Livable house—its garden. (S ‘17)
   Pückler-Muskau, H. L. H., fürst von. Hints on landscape gardening. (D
      ‘17)
   Waugh, F. A. Natural style in landscape gardening. (Ja ‘18)

 =Language=
   Sturtevant, E. H. Linguistic change. (Ja ‘18)

 Lark went singing. Harding, R. G. (Jl ‘17)

 =Latin America=
   Beach, H. P. Renaissant Latin America. (Ap ‘17)
   Koebel, W. H. Paraguay. (My ‘17)
   =Antiquities=
     Joyce, T: A. Central American and West Indian archæology. (My ‘17)
   =Commerce=
     Filsinger, E. B. Exporting to Latin America. (Ag ‘17)
   =Foreign relations=
     Root, E. Latin America and the United States. (N ‘17)
   =Social life and customs=
     Morse, E: L. C. Spanish-American life. (Jl ‘17)

 Latin at war. Irwin, W: H: (S ‘17)

 Latter-day problems. Laughlin, J. L. (Mr ‘17)

 Laugh and live. Fairbanks, D. (O ‘17)

 Laughing Bill Hyde. Beach, R. E. (Ja ‘18)

 =Law=
   Thorpe, F. N. Essentials of American constitutional law. (F ‘18)

 Law and the word. Troward, T: (D ‘17)

 Law; business or profession? Cohen, J. H: (Jl ‘17)

 Laws of physical science. Northrup, E. F. (Jl ‘17)

 =Lawyers=
   Cohen, J. H: Law; business or profession? (Jl ‘17)

 League of nations. Brailsford, H: N. (My ‘17)

 League of nations. Marburg, T. (Ja ‘18)

 =League to enforce peace=
   Ashbee, C. R. American league to enforce peace. (Ag ‘17)

   Goldsmith, R. League to enforce peace. (Mr ‘17)
   Marburg, T. League of nations. (Ja ‘18)

 =Learning and scholarship=
   Foster, W: T. Should students study? (Ap ‘17)

 Lectures on ten British mathematicians of the nineteenth century.
    Macfarlane, A. (Jl ‘17)

 =Lee, Robert Edward=, 1807-1870
   Hamilton, J. G. de R. and M. T. Life of Robert E. Lee for boys and
      girls. (D ‘17)

 =Legal ethics=
   Cohen, J. H: Law; business or profession? (Jl ‘17)

 Legal points for automobile owners. Childs, L. (Jl ‘17)

 =Legends=
   Westervelt, W: D. Hawaiian legends of volcanoes. (Ap ‘17)

 =Legislation=
   Freund, E. Standards of American legislation. (D ‘17)

 =Leisure=
   Sizer, J. P. Commercialization of leisure. (Ja ‘18)

 Lend me your name! Elliott, F. P. (O ‘17)

 Let the flag wave. Scollard, C. (N ‘17)

 Let’s pretend. Barbee, L. (D ‘17)

 =Lettering=
   Reinhardt, C: W: Lettering for draftsmen, engineers and students. (S
      ‘17)

 =Letters=
   Burns, R. Sylvander and Clarinda. (D ‘17)
   Clemens, S: L. Mark Twain’s letters. (Ja ‘18)
   Coult, M., ed. Letters from many pens. (Jl ‘17)
   Dowden, E:, and others. Letters about Shelley. (N ‘17)
   Stanley, E. Twenty years at court. (O ‘17)
   Swinburne, A. C: Algernon Charles Swinburne. (Jl ‘17)
   Yeats, J: B. Passages from the letters of John Butler Yeats. (N ‘17)

 Letters. Heath, A. G: (N ‘17)

 Letters and diary. Seeger, A. (Ag ‘17)

 Letters and writings. Croswell, J. G. (N ‘17)

 Letters from a French hospital. (Ag ‘17)

 Letters from France. Bean, C. E. W. (O ‘17)

 Letters from my home in India. Churchill, M. (Ap ‘17)

 Letters of a soldier, 1914-1915. Eng title of Soldier of France to his
    mother. (O ‘17)

 Letters to a young housekeeper. Prince, J. (Mr ‘17)

 =Levellers=
   Pease, T. C. Leveller movement. (S ‘17)

 =Lewars, Mrs Harold.= See Singmaster, E.

 Lewis Seymour and some women. Moore, G: (Je ‘17)

 =Li Hung-chang=, 1823-1901
   Bland, J: O. P. Li Hung-chang. (D ‘17)

 Liability and compensation insurance. Blanchard, R. H. (D ‘17)

 =Liberty=
   Phillipps, L. M. Europe unbound. (Je ‘17)

 =Liberty of the press=
   Schroeder, T. A. Free speech for radicals. (Jl ‘17)

 =Libraries=
   Bostwick, A. E. American public library. (Ja ‘18)
   Koch, T. W. Book of Carnegie libraries. (Ja ‘18)
   Powell, S. H. Children’s library. (My ‘17)
   =History=
     Rawlings, G. B. British museum library. (Ap ‘17)

 =Libraries, Children’s=
   Hazeltine, A. I., ed. Library work with children. (Ja ‘18)

 Library of Christian cooperation. Federal council of the churches of
    Christ in America. (Je ‘17)

 =Library schools and training=
   Wisconsin. University. Library school. Apprentice course for small
      libraries. (D ‘17)

 =Library science=
   Bostwick, A. E. American public library. (Ja ‘18)
   Ward, G. O. Practical use of books and libraries. (Jl ‘17)

 Library work with children. Hazeltine, A. I., ed. (Ja ‘18)

 =Life=
   Tashiro, S. Chemical sign of life. (N ‘17)

 =Life, Origin of=
   Osborn, H: F. Origin and evolution of life.

 Life and art of William Merritt Chase. Roof, K. M. (F ‘18)

 Life and letters of Edward Everett Hale. Hale, E: E., jr. (F ‘18)

 Life and letters of John Fiske. Clark, J: S. (Ja ‘18)

 Life and letters of Maggie Benson. Benson, A. C. (D ‘17)

 Life and letters of Robert Collyer, 1823-1912. Holmes, J: H. (F ‘18)

 Life and letters of Stopford Brooke. Jacks, L. P. (F ‘18)

 Life and letters of Thomas Hodgkin. Creighton, L. (F ‘18) (N ‘17)

 Life and literature. Hearn, L. (Ja ‘18)

 Life and poetry of James Thomson. Meeker, J. E: (Ja ‘18)

 Life at the U.S. naval academy. Earle, R. (Je ‘17)

 Life of Abdul Hamid. Pears, Sir E. (Ja ‘18)

 Life of Lazarillo de Tormes and his fortunes and adversities. Lazarillo
    de Tormes. (N ‘17)

 Life of the grasshopper. Fabre, J. H. C. (My ‘17)

 Life of the Rt. Hon. Sir Charles W. Dilke. Gwynn, S. L., and Tuckwell,
    G. M. (D ‘17)

 Lifted veil. King, B. (Mr ‘17)

 Light beyond. Maeterlinck, M. (Ja ‘18)

 Light in the clearing. Bacheller, I. A. (Ap ‘17)

 Light of Provence. Stimson, F: J. (N ‘17)

 =Lighthouses=
   Putnam, G: R. Lighthouses and lightships of the United States. (Jl
      ‘17)

 Lights at dawn. Phoutrides, A. E. (N ‘17)

 =Lightships=
   Putnam, G: R. Lighthouses and lightships of the United States. (Jl
      ‘17)

 =Lilburne, John, 1614?-1657=
   Pease, T. C. Leveller movement. (S ‘17)

 Lilla. Lowndes, M. A. (My ‘17)

 =Lille, France=
   Deportation of women and girls from Lille. (My ‘17)

 Limehouse nights. Burke, T: (O ‘17)

 “Limpy.” Johnston, W: A. (Mr ‘17)

 =Lincoln, Abraham=, 1809-1865
   Barnard’s Lincoln. (Ja ‘18)
   Lincoln, A. Uncollected letters. (D ‘17)
   Rothschild, A. “Honest Abe.” (N ‘17)
   Tarbell, I. M. Life of Abraham Lincoln. (D ‘17)

 Lines long and short. Fuller, H: B. (Mr ‘17)

 Linguistic change. Sturtevant, E. H. (Ja ‘18)

 =Liquor problem=
   Beman, L. T., comp. Selected articles on prohibition of the liquor
      traffic. (Ap ‘17)

 =Lister, Charles Alfred=, 1887-1915
   Lister, C: A. Letters and recollections. (Je ‘17)

 =Literary criticism=
   Freeman, J: Moderns. (O ‘17)

 Literary pilgrim in England. Thomas, E: (D ‘17)

 =Literature=
   Bennett, A. Books and persons. (N ‘17)
   Symons, A. Figures of several centuries. (My ‘17)
   =History and criticism=
     Bradford, G. Naturalist of souls. (N ‘17)

 =Literature, Comparative=
   Mantz, H. E. French criticism of American literature before 1850. (S
      ‘17)

 =Literature, Modern=
   Sherman, S. P. On contemporary literature. (F ‘18)

 Literature in the making. Kilmer, J., ed. (Je ‘17)

 =Little, Frances=, pseud. See Macaulay, F.

 Little book of Irish verse. White, A. C., ed. (Ap ‘17)

 Little boy out of the wood. Greene, K. C. (My ‘17)

 Little gods laugh. Field, L. M. (O ‘17)

 Little grandmother of the Russian revolution. Breshkovsky, C. (Ja ‘18)

 Little theatre in the United States. Mackay, C. D. (D ‘17)

 Little world apart. Stevenson, G: (My ‘17)

 Livable house—its garden. Dean, R. (S ‘17)

 Livable house—its plan and design. Embury, A. (S ‘17)

 Livelihood. Gibson, W. W. (Mr ‘17)

 Lively recollections. Shearme, J: (S ‘17)

 Livery of Eve. Bain, F. W: (Jl ‘17)

 Living present. Atherton, G. F. (Ag ‘17)

 =Lloyd George, David=, 1863-
   Dilnot, F. Lloyd George. (My ‘17)

 Locked chest; and The sweeps of ninety-eight. Masefield, J: (Ap ‘17)

 =Locomotives=
   Yoder, J. H., and Wharen, G: B. Locomotive valves and valve gears.
      (Ja ‘18)

 Lollingdon Downs. Masefield, J: (S ‘17)

 Lombard architecture. Porter, A. K. (O ‘17)

 London nights of Belsize. Rendall, V. H. (O ‘17)

 Lonely flute. Shepard, O. (F ‘18)

 Long journey. Singmaster, E. (Ap ‘17)

 Long lane’s turning. Rives, H. E. (O ‘17)

 Long live the king! Rinehart, M. (O ‘17)

 Long spoon. Bryce, Mrs C: (N ‘17)

 Looking glass. Crane, F. (Jl ‘17)

 Lookout man. Bower, B. M., pseud. (N ‘17)

 Lord Kitchener memorial book. Le Bas, Sir H. F. (Je ‘17)

 Losses of life in modern wars. Bodart, G., and Kellogg, V. L. (Ap ‘17)

 Lost cities of Ceylon. Mitton, G. E. (S ‘17)

 Lost endeavour. Masefield, J: (Mr ‘17)

 Lost little lady. Knipe, E. and A. A. (D ‘17)

 Louisburg square. Cutler, R. (My ‘17)

 Love for the battle-torn peoples. Jones, J. L. (Ap ‘17)

 Love poems. Verhaeren, E. (O ‘17)

 Love songs. Teasdale, S. (N ‘17)

 Love tangles. Penny, F. E. (O ‘17)

 Lovers. Pennell, E. (Jl ‘17)

 Loves and losses of Pierrot. Griffith, W: (Ap ‘17)

 Luck of the Irish. MacGrath, H. (D ‘17)

 =Ludwig II, king of Bavaria=, 1845-1886
   Ebenthal, H. Tragedy of a throne. (O ‘17)

 Lure of the Mississippi. Lange, D. (D ‘17)

 Lustra. Pound, E. L. (F ‘18)

 =Lustre=
   Bosanko, W. Collecting old lustre ware. (S ‘17)

 =Luther, Martin=, 1483-1546
   Freytag, G. Doctor Luther. (Je ‘17)
   Grisar, H. Luther. (D ‘17)
   Singmaster, E. Martin Luther. (Ap ‘17)

 Lydia of the pines. Willsie, H. M. (Mr ‘17)

 =Lyttelton, Alfred=, 1857-1913
   Lyttelton, E. S. Alfred Lyttelton. (Jl ‘17)


 McAllister’s grove. Hill, M. (S ‘17)

 =Macdonald, Mrs Evan.= See Montgomery, L. M.

 =MacFarlane, Charles=, 1799-1858
   MacFarlane, C: Reminiscences of a literary life. (N ‘17)

 Machine drawing. Hills, R. W. (D ‘17)

 Machine gun practice and tactics for officers. McKellar, K. B. (D ‘17)

 =McIntire, Samuel=, 1757-1811
   Cousins, F., and Riley, P. M. Wood-carver of Salem. (Ap ‘17)

 Madame Prince. Ridge, W: P. (Ap ‘17)

 Madness of May. Nicholson, M. (Je ‘17)

 Mag Pye. Hutten zum Stolzenberg, B., freifrau von. (Ap ‘17)

 =Magic=
   Elbiquet, pseud. Supplementary magic. (Jl ‘17)

 Magic of science. Collins, A. F: (D ‘17)

 Magna carta. Guthrie, W: D. (Ap ‘17)

 Magpie’s nest. Paterson, I. (My ‘17)

 Maid of old Manhattan. Knipe, E. and A. A. (D ‘17)

 Maid with wings. Osborn, E: W. (Ja ‘18)

 Main street. Kilmer, J. (N ‘17)

 Major. Connor, R., pseud. (Ja ‘18)

 =Malory, Sir Thomas=, fl. 1470
   Scudder, V. D. Le morte d’Arthur of Sir Thomas Malory and its
      sources. (F ‘18)

 Malvina of Brittany. Eng title of Street of the blank wall. Jerome, J.
    K. (Mr ‘17)

 =Man, Migration of=
   Jackson, J. W. Shells as evidence of the migrations of early culture.
      (D ‘17)

 =Man, Origin of=
   Migeod, F: W: H. Earliest man. (D ‘17)

 Man as he is. Fuller, Sir B. (Jl ‘17)

 Man in court. Wells, F: DeW. (Je ‘17)

 Man in evening clothes. Scott, J: R. (Jl ‘17)

 Man in the ranks. Gallishaw, J:, and Lynch, W: (N ‘17)

 Man in the street and religion. Jenkins, B. A. (O ‘17)

 Man next door. Hough, E. (My ‘17)

 Man thou gavest. Comstock, H. T. (Jl ‘17)

 Man versus the state. Spencer, H. (Ap ‘17)

 Man who killed. Farrère, C. (Ja ‘18)

 Man who saw. Watson, Sir W: (Ag ‘17)

 Man who tried to be it. Mackenzie, C. (My ‘17)

 =Manchuria=
   Tisdale, A. Pioneering where the world is old. (Ja ‘18)

 Mankind. Humphrey, S. K. (D ‘17)

 Mannequin. Lippmann, J. M. (Je ‘17)

 =Manning, Mrs John Leroy.= See Duncan, F.

 Man’s unconscious conflict. Lay, W. (Je ‘17)

 =Mansergh, Jessie.= See Vaizey, J.

 =Manship, Paul=, 1886-
   Gallatin, A. E. Paul Manship. (O ‘17)

 Manual of field astronomy. Holt, A. H. (My ‘17)

 Manual of fruit diseases. Hesler, L. R., and Whetzel, H. H. (O ‘17)

 Manual of natural education. Stoner, W. S. (My ‘17)

 Manual of the common invertebrate animals. Pratt, H: S. (Ap ‘17)

 Manufacture of artillery ammunition. Alford, L. P., ed. (Jl ‘17)

 Manufacturing costs and accounts. Church, A. H. (Jl ‘17)

 Maple leaves in Flanders fields. Rae, H., pseud. (O ‘17)

 =Maps, Military=
   Barnes, J: B. Elements of military sketching and map reading. (Ag
      ‘17)

 Marching men. Anderson, S. (O ‘17)

 Margery Morris. Gray, V. G. (F ‘18)

 Margin of happiness. Franks, T. (N ‘17)

 =Marine engineering=
   Durand, W: F: Practical marine engineering. (Jl ‘17)

 Marion, by the author of “Me.” (My ‘17)

 =Maritime law=
   Grotius, H. Freedom of the seas. (D ‘17)

 Mark of Cain. Wells, C. (Ap ‘17)

 Mark of the beast. Cook, Sir T. A. (My ‘17)

 Mark Twain’s letters. Clemens, S: L. (Ja ‘18)

 =Marketing=
   Adams, A. B. Marketing perishable farm products. (Ag ‘17)
   Cumberland, W: W. Cooperative marketing. (Ja ‘18)
   Donham, S. A. Marketing and household manual. (Ja ‘18)
   Weld, L: D. H. Marketing of farm products. (Ag ‘17)

 Marlborough. Sorley, C: H. (Ap ‘17)

 Marmaduke. Steel, F. A. (O ‘17)

 Marne campaign. Whitton, F: E. (Jl ‘17)

 =Marriage=
   Powell, C. L. English domestic relations, 1487-1653. (N ‘17)

 Marshdikes. Ashton, H. (O ‘17)

 Martie, the unconquered. Norris, K. (O ‘17)

 =Martin, Ellis=, pseud. See Ryan, M. E.

 Martin Valliant. Deeping, W. (Ap ‘17)

 Marvel book of American ships. Jackson, O. P., and Evans, F. E. (F ‘18)

 Marvels of scientific invention. Corbin, T: W. (My ‘17)

 Mary Frances first aid book. Fryer, J. (N ‘17)

 Mask. Irwin, F. (O ‘17)

 Mass and vestments of the Catholic church. Walsh, J: (Je ‘17)

 =Massachusetts. State department of health=
   Whipple, G: C. State sanitation. (D ‘17)

 =Massachusetts coast artillery=
   Cutler, F: M. Old First Massachusetts coast artillery in war and
      peace. (N ‘17)

 Master of the Hill. Bowie, W. R. (Ja ‘18)

 Master of the hills. Cocke, S. C. (O ‘17)

 Masterpieces of modern Spanish drama. Clark, B. H., ed. (Jl ‘17)

 Masters of space. Towers, W. K. (Mr ‘17)

 Master’s way. Brown, C: R. (My ‘17)

 Mastery of nervousness based upon self-reeducation. Carroll, R. S. (N
    ‘17)

 Matchmakers. Buckrose, J. E., pseud. (Mr ‘17)

 =Mathematicians=
   Macfarlane, A. Lectures on ten British mathematicians of the
      nineteenth century. (Jl ‘17)

 =Mathematics=
   Austin, F. E. Preliminary mathematics. (Ag ‘17)

 =Matter=
   Comstock, D. F., and Troland, L. T. Nature of matter and electricity.
      (S ‘17)
   Crehore, A. C. Mystery of matter and energy. (Ja ‘18)

 =Matthews, Brander=, 1852-
   Matthews, B. These many years. (N ‘17)

 Meaning of money. Withers, H. (Jl ‘17)

 =Mechanical engineering=
   Fernald, R. H., and Orrok, G: A. Engineering of power plants. (Jl
      ‘17)

 Mechanical equipment of buildings. Harding, L: A., and Willard, A. C.
    (D ‘17)

 Mechanical handling and storing of material. Zimmer, G: F: (Jl ‘17)

 =Mechanics, Applied=
   Poorman, A. P. Applied mechanics. (Ja ‘18)

 Mechanism of exchange. Todd, J: A. (N ‘17)

 Mediation, investigation, and arbitration in industrial disputes.
    Barnett, G: E., and McCabe, D: A. (Ap ‘17)

 Medical diseases of the war. Hurst, A. F. (Ja ‘18)

 Medical research and human welfare. Keen, W: W. (Ja ‘18)

 =Medicine=
   =History=
     Buck, A. H: Growth of medicine from the earliest times to about
        1800. (Jl ‘17)

 =Mediterranean sea=
   Corbett, J. S. England in the Mediterranean [1603-1713]. (Jl ‘17)

 =Meigs, John=, 1852-1911
   Bowie, W. R. Master of the Hill. (Ja ‘18)

 =Melville, Henry Dundas, 1st viscount=, 1742-1811
   Lovat-Fraser, J. A. Henry Dundas, Viscount Melville. (N ‘17)

 Memoirs. Mosby, J: S. (D ‘17)

 Memoirs of a white elephant. Gautier, J. (Ap ‘17)

 Memorial day. Reed, H. L. (Ja ‘18)

 Memories discreet and indiscreet. Menzies, A. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Memories of Eton sixty years ago. Ainger, A. C. (Jl ‘17)

 Memories of old Salem. Northend, M. H. (F ‘18)

 =Memory=
   Dana, M. Perfect memory. (Ja ‘18)

 Men of letters. Scott, D. (Ag ‘17)

 Menace of Japan. McCormick, F: (Ap ‘17)

 Menace of peace. Herron, G: D. (Ag ‘17)

 Mendel. Cannan, G. (Mr ‘17)

 =Mendel’s law=
   Loeb, J. Organism as a whole. (S ‘17)

 =Menno, Simons=, ca. 1496-1559
   Horsch, J: Menno Simons. (Je ‘17)

 Mens creatrix. Temple, W: (N ‘17)

 Mental adjustments. Wells, F: L. (N ‘17)

 Mental conflicts and misconduct. Healy, W: (Jl ‘17)

 Mental control of the body. White, V. H. (F ‘18)

 =Mental hygiene=
   White, V. H. Mental control of the body. (F ‘18)

 Merlin. Robinson, E. A. (Je ‘17)

 =Mesopotamia=
   Bevan, E. R. Land of the two rivers. (F ‘18)
   Hubbard, G. E. From the gulf to Ararat. (F ‘18)

 =Meteorology=
   McAdie, A. G: Principles of aërography. (Ja ‘18)

 Method in the madness. Bevan, E. R. (D ‘17)

 Mexican war diary. McClellan, G: B. (Jl ‘17)

 =Mexico=
   Barron, C. W. Mexican problem. (O ‘17)
   O’Shaughnessy, E. L. Diplomatic days. (Ja ‘18)
   =History=
     Priestley, H. I. José de Gálvez, visitor-general of New Spain
        (1765-1771). (Jl ‘17)
   =Politics and government=
     Hannay, D: Diaz. (Mr ‘17)

 =Mexico (city)=
   =Sanitary affairs=
     Pani, A. J. Hygiene in Mexico. (Mr ‘17)

 Michael, brother of Jerry. London, J. (Ja ‘18)

 Middle group of American historians. Bassett, J: S. (Mr ‘17)

 Middle pasture. Bilbro, M. (Mr ‘17)

 Middle years. Hinkson, K. (My ‘17)

 Middle years. James, H: (Ja ‘18)

 Migrations of fish. Meek, A. (Je ‘17)

 Milady’s house plants. Palmer, F: E. (D ‘17)

 Militant America and Jesus Christ. Rihbany, A. M. (F ‘18)

 =Militarism=
   Liebknecht, K: P. A. F. Militarism. (D ‘17)
   MacDonald, J. R. National defence. (Je ‘17)

 Military and colonial policy of the United States. Root, E. (Je ‘17)

 =Military art and science=
   Azan, P. J. L: War of positions. (D ‘17)
   Bayonet training manual used by the British forces. (S ‘17)
   Campbell, M. V. Rapid training of recruits. (D ‘17)
   Dyson, G. Grenade fighting. (Ja ‘18)
   Elliott, F. H. Trench fighting. (Ja ‘18)
   Ellis, O. O., and Garey, E. B. Plattsburg manual. (My ‘17)
   Gallishaw, J:, and Lynch, W: Man in the ranks. (N ‘17)
   Garey, E. B., and Ellis, O. O. Junior Plattsburg manual. (S ‘17)
   International military digest annual, 1916. (Jl ‘17)
   McArthur, J: C. What a company officer should know. (D ‘17)
   McKellar, K. B. Machine gun practice and tactics for officers. (D
      ‘17)
   McLaglen, L. Bayonet fighting. (S ‘17)
   Moretti, O. Notes on training, field artillery details. (S ‘17)
   Moss, J. A. Trench warfare. (N ‘17)
   New manual of bayonet training and Practical bayonet fighting. (S
      ‘17)
   Operation and tactical use of the Lewis automatic rifle. (S ‘17)
   Plumon, E. Vade-mecum for the use of officers and interpreters in the
      present campaign. (N ‘17)
   Robbins, E: J., comp. Universal drill manual. (Ag ‘17)
   Smith, J. S. Trench warfare. (Ag ‘17)
   Solano, E. J:, ed. Field entrenchments. (Ja ‘18)
   Sutherland, S: J. Reserve officers’ handbook. (Ag ‘17)
   Vickers, L. Training for the trenches. (Ag ‘17)

 =Military equipment and supplies=
   Gibson, C: R. War inventions and how they were invented. (Jl ‘17)

 =Military service, Compulsory=
   Wise, J. C. Call of the Republic. (Jl ‘17)

 =Military topography=
   Barnes, J: B. Elements of military sketching and map reading. (Ag
      ‘17)

 =Military training=
   Ellis, O. O., and Garey, E. B. Plattsburg manual. (My ‘17)
   Garey, E. B., and Ellis, O. O. Junior Plattsburg manual. (S ‘17)
   Howe, L. Universal military training and service. (Je ‘17)
   Moss, J. A., and Stewart, M. B. Military training for boys. (Ag ‘17)
   Parker, R. M. Officer’s notes. (My ‘17)
   Van Valkenburgh, A., comp. Selected articles on military training in
      schools and colleges. (Mr ‘17)
   _See also_ Military art and science

 =Milk=
   Guest, F. Cow and milk book. (My ‘17)
   MacNutt, J. S. Modern milk problems. (Ag ‘17)
   Parker, H. N. City milk supply. (Jl ‘17)
   Straus, N. Disease in milk. (Ag ‘17)

 =Millinery=
   Van Kleeck, M. Seasonal industry. (D ‘17)

 =Mineralogy=
   Bayley, W: S. Descriptive mineralogy. (F ‘18)

 =Miniatures=
   Yoxall, Sir J. H: Collecting old miniatures. (Je ‘17)

 Minimum cost of living. Gibbs, W. S. (Je ‘17)

 =Minimum wage=
   Reely, M. K., comp. Selected articles on minimum wage. (Mr ‘17)

 =Mining industry and finance=
   Pickering, J: C. Engineering analysis of a mining share. (Je ‘17)

 =Ministers of the gospel=
   McDowell, W: F. Good ministers of Jesus Christ. (S ‘17)

 =Minnesota=
   Pollock, H. M. Our Minnesota. (Jl ‘17)

 Minutes and proceedings of the Ohio company of associates. Ohio company
    of associates. (N ‘17)

 Mirror of gesture. Nandikeśvara. (O ‘17)

 Misinforming a nation. Wright, W. H. (Je ‘17)

 Miss Haroun Al-Raschid. Kerruish, J. D. (O ‘17)

 Miss Million’s maid. Onions, B. R. (N ‘17)

 ‘Missing.’ Ward, M. A. (D ‘17)

 =Missions=
   Macdonald, A. J: M. Trade, politics and Christianity in Africa and
      the East. (Jl ‘17)
   =Africa=
     Du Plessis, J. Thrice through the dark continent. (Ja ‘18)
     Livingstone, W: P. Mary Slessor of Calabar. (Ap ‘17)
     Mackenzie, J. K. African trail. (S ‘17)
   =China=
     Hart, E. I. Virgil C. Hart: missionary statesman. (Jl ‘17)
     Miller, G: A. China inside out. (Je ‘17)
   =India=
     Churchill, M. Letters from my home in India. (Ap ‘17)
   =Japan=
     Davis, J. M. Davis, soldier missionary. (Ap ‘17)
   =Latin America=
     Beach, H. P. Renaissant Latin America. (Ap ‘17)
     Stuntz, H. C. South American neighbors. (My ‘17)

 Mississippi valley in British politics. Alvord, C. W. (My ‘17)

 Mr Cushing and Mlle du Chastel. Rumsey, F. (Jl ‘17)

 Mr George Jean Nathan presents. Nathan, G: J. (Ja ‘18)

 Mr Poilu. Ward, H. (Ag ‘17)

 Mr Teddy. Eng title of Tortoise. Benson, E: F: (N ‘17)

 Mistress Anne. Bailey, T. (Ag ‘17)

 Mrs Hope’s husband. Burgess, G. (O ‘17)

 Mrs Norton’s cook-book. Norton, J. Y. (Jl ‘17)

 Mobilising America. Bullard, A. (My ‘17)

 Modern currency reforms. Kemmerer, E. W. (My ‘17)

 Modern European history. Hazen, C: D. (Mr ‘17)

 Modern gasworks practice. Meade, A. (D ‘17)

 Modern Icelandic plays. Sigurjónsson, J. (Ap ‘17)

 Modern milk problem. MacNutt, J. S. (Ag ‘17)

 Modern purgatory. Fornaro, C. de. (F ‘18)

 Modern Russian history. Kornilov, A. (My ‘17)

 Modern seamanship. Knight, A. M. (Je ‘17)

 Modern war. Nevinson, C. R: W. (F ‘18)

 Modern whaling and bear hunting. Murdoch, W. G. B. (Ja ‘18)

 Moderns. Freeman, J: (O ‘17)

 Mogu the wanderer. Colum, P. (Mr ‘17)

 Monarchy in politics. Farrer, J. A. (Ja ‘18)

 =Money=
   Anderson, B: M. Value of money. (Ja ‘18)
   Hayward, W: R. Money. (Jl ‘17)
   Holdsworth, J: T. Money and banking. (F ‘18)
   Kemmerer, E. W. Modern currency reforms. (My ‘17)
   Phillips, C. A. Readings in money and banking. (Je ‘17)
   Todd, J: A. Mechanism of exchange. (N ‘17)
   Withers, H. Meaning of money. (Jl ‘17)

 Money making for boys. Collins, A. F: (Ja ‘18)

 =Monopolies=
   Reed, H. B. Morals of monopoly and competition. (S ‘17)

 =Montana=
   Fogarty, K. H. Story of Montana. (Ap ‘17)

 =Montessori method=
   Montessori, M. Montessori elementary material. (D ‘17)
   Montessori, M. Spontaneous activity in education. (D ‘17)

 =Moore, Mrs Stuart.= See Underhill, E.

 Morals of monopoly and competition. Reed, H. B. (S ‘17)

 More fairy tale plays. Merington, M. (D ‘17)

 More power to you. Barton, B. (D ‘17)

 More short plays. Macmillan, M. L. (Ja ‘18)

 More tales by Polish authors. Benecke, E. C. M., and Busch, M., trs.
    (Jl ‘17)

 =Morris mansion, New York=
   Shelton, W: H: Jumel mansion. (Ap ‘17)

 =Morte d’Arthur.= See Malory, Sir T:

 =Mosby, John Singleton=, 1833-1916

 Mosby, J: S. Memoirs. (D ‘17)

 Moscow in flames. Danilevskii, G. P. (F ‘18)

 Mother Nature. Vanzype, G. (N ‘17)

 Motherhood and the relationships of the sexes. Gallichan, C. G. (Jl
    ‘17)

 =Mothers=
   Cooke, J. B. Baby, before and after arrival. (Je ‘17)
   Croy, M. S. 1000 things a mother should know. (Je ‘17)
   Hirsch, C. Diary of an expectant mother. (O ‘17)
   McCracken, E., ed. To mother. (O ‘17)

 =Motor boats=
   Chapman, C: F: Practical motor boat handling, seamanship and
      piloting. (N ‘17)

 Mottke the vagabond. Ash, S. (F ‘18)

 =Mount Rainier national park=
   Meany, E. S., ed. Mount Rainier. (Jl ‘17)

 Mounted police life in Canada. Deane, R: B. (Jl ‘17)

 =Movement, Psychology of=
   Washburn, M. F. Movement and mental imagery. (Ap ‘17)

 =Moving picture plays=
   Bertsch, M. How to write for moving pictures. (O ‘17)

 =Moving pictures in industry=
   Dench, E. A. Advertising by motion pictures. (Je ‘17)

 =Mozans, H. J.=, pseud. See Zahm, J: A.

 =Municipal government=
   Arndt, W. T. Emancipation of the American city. (O ‘17)
   Cushman, R. E. Excess condemnation. (D ‘17)
   James, H. G. Municipal functions. (Je ‘17)

 =Municipal law=
   Wright, P. Q. Enforcement of international law through municipal law
      in the United States. (Jl ‘17)

 =Municipal ownership=
   Thompson, C. D. Municipal ownership. (Jl ‘17)

 Munition workers in England and France. Walter, H. R. See Hewes, A.
    Women as munition makers. (N ‘17)

 Munster twilight. Corkery, D. (Jl ‘17)

 Museum. Jackson, M. T. (Jl ‘17)

 =Music=
   Montagu-Nathan, M. Contemporary Russian composers. (Jl ‘17)
   Sonneck, O. G: T. Suum cuique. (S ‘17)
   Surette, T: Music and life. (Ap ‘17)
   Van Vechten, C. Interpreters and interpretations. (Ja ‘18)
   Van Vechten, C. Music and bad manners. (Ap ‘17)

 Mutual aid. Kropotkin, P. A., kniaz. (My ‘17)

 My adventures as a German secret agent. Goltz, H. von der. (D ‘17)

 My country. Brown. G: R. (Ag ‘17)

 My doctor dog. Steiner, E: A. (Ja ‘18)

 My fifty years in the navy. Clark, C: E. (D ‘17)

 My four years in Germany. Gerard, J. W. (O ‘17)

 My home in the field of mercy. Huard, F. (Ja ‘18)

 My life and work. Muspratt, E. K. (Mr ‘17)

 My log. Barrie, R. (D ‘17)

 My mother and I. Stern, E. G. (Ag ‘17)

 My people. Evans, C. (S ‘17)

 My reminiscences. Reid, Sir G: H. (S ‘17)

 My reminiscences. Tagore, Sir R. (Jl ‘17)

 My Russian and Turkish journals. Dufferin and Ava, H. G., marchioness
    of. (My ‘17)

 My second year of the war. Palmer, F: (Mr ‘17)

 My .75. Lintier, P. (D ‘17)

 My ship. Leamy, E. S. (Ja ‘18)

 My story. Stimson, F: J. (D ‘17)

 My war diary. Waddington, M. A. (O ‘17)

 My wife. Burke, E: (N ‘17)

 Mysteries of the flowers. Faulkner, H. W. (My ‘17)

 Mystery of Gabriel. Wood, M. (Ja ‘18)

 Mystery of matter and energy. Crehore, A. C. (Ja ‘18)

 Mystery tales for boys and girls. Smith, E. S., comp. (D ‘17)

 =Mysticism=
   Ruysbroeck, J. van. Adornment of the spiritual marriage. (Jl ‘17)

 =Mythology=
   Judson, K. B., comp. Myths and legends of British North America. (Je
      ‘17)
   Keith, A. B., and Carnoy, A. J. Indian [mythology]; Iranian
      [mythology]. (Ap ‘17)
   Spence, L. Myths and legends of Babylonia and Assyria. (Je ‘17)

 =Mythology, Classical=
   Tatlock, J. M. Greek and Roman mythology. (My ‘17)

 =Mythology, Norse=
   Wägner, W. Asgard and the gods. (D ‘17)

 Myths and legends of Babylonia and Assyria. Spence, L. (Je ‘17)

 Myths and legends of British North America. Judson, K. B., comp. (Je
    ‘17)


 Name of Old Glory. Riley, J. W. (S ‘17)

 Nameless man. Lincoln, N. S. (D ‘17)

 =Names, Personal=
   Weekley, E. Surnames. (Je ‘17)

 =Napoleon I, emperor of the French=, 1769-1821
   Hazen, C: D. French revolution and Napoleon. (My ‘17)

 National being. Russell, G: W: (Ap ‘17)

 National budget system. Collins, C: W. (N ‘17)

 =National characteristics, English=
   Chevrillon, A. England and the war (1914-1915). (Ag ‘17)

 =National characteristics, German=
   Archer, W:, comp. Gems (?) of German thought. (Ag ‘17)

 =National characteristics, Russian=
   Jarintzov, N. Russians and their language. (My ‘17)
   Wright, R. L. Russians. (Je ‘17)

 National defence. MacDonald, J. R. (Je ‘17)

 =National parks and reserves=
   Holtz, M. E., and Bemis, K. I. Glacier national park. (Jl ‘17)
   Mills, E. A. Your national parks. (Jl ‘17)
   Yard, R. S. Top of the continent. (D ‘17)

 National service handbook. United States. Committee on public
    information. (N ‘17)

 =National songs, American=
   Ogden, H: A. Our flag and our songs. (Ag ‘17)

 National year book, 1917. (Jl ‘17)

 =Nationalism and nationality=
   Brown, P. M. International realities. (Mr ‘17)
   Dominian, L. Frontier language and nationality in Europe. (Jl ‘17)
   Muir, R. Nationalism and internationalism. (Ap ‘17)
   Tagore, Sir R. Nationalism. (D ‘17)
   Zangwill, I. Principle of nationalities. (Ag ‘17)

 Nation’s health. Morris, Sir M. A. (Jl ‘17)

 =Natural history=
   Calvert, A. C. and P. P. Year of Costa Rican natural history. (Jl
      ‘17)
   Shelford, R. W. C. Naturalist in Borneo. (S ‘17)
   Thoreau, H: D: Through the year with Thoreau. (N ‘17)
   =Museums=
     Pindar, G: N., and others. Guide to the nature treasures of New
        York city. (Jl ‘17)

 Natural style in landscape gardening. Waugh, F. A. (Ja ‘18)

 Naturalist in Borneo. Shelford, R. W. C. (S ‘17)

 Naturalist of souls. Bradford, G. (N ‘17)

 =Nature=
   Henderson, L. J. Order of nature. (S ‘17)
   Maeterlinck, M. News of spring. (F ‘18)

 Nature of matter and electricity. Comstock, D. F., and Troland, L. T.
    (S ‘17)

 =Naval art and science=
   Stirling, Y. Fundamentals of naval service. (Je ‘17)

 =Navigation=
   Hastings, F. S. Navigation. (F ‘18)
   Jacoby, H. Navigation. (F ‘18)
   Knight, A. M. Modern seamanship. (Je ‘17)

 ‘Neath Verdun. Genevoix, M. (Mr ‘17)

 Necessity of Christ. Orchard, W: E. (Jl ‘17)

 Needlecraft in the school. Swanson, M. (Jl ‘17)

 Neighbors. Kingsley, F. (O ‘17)

 Nelson’s History of the war. Buchan, J: (F ‘18)

 =Nervous system=
   Carroll, R. S. Mastery of nervousness based upon self reeducation. (N
      ‘17)
   Howard, W: L. How to rest. (N ‘17)

 =Neuroses=
   Hitschmann, E. Freud’s theories of the neuroses. (N ‘17)

 Neurotic constitution. Adler, A. (N ‘17)

 New adventures. Monahan, M. (N ‘17)

 New archeological discoveries. Cobern, C. M. (N ‘17)

 New Carthage. Eekhoud, G. (O ‘17)

 New civics. Ashley, R. L: (N ‘17)

 New convert. Stepniak, pseud. (Je ‘17)

 New country church building. Brunner, E. de S. (N ‘17)

 =New England=
   =Description and travel=
     Johnson, C. New England. (O ‘17)
   =Religious sects=
     Platner, J: W., and others. Religious history of New England. (S
        ‘17)

 New era in Canada. Miller, J: O., ed. (N ‘17)

 New footprints in old places. Stiles, P. (Ja ‘18)

 New Gethsemane. Fox, E: L. (N ‘17)

 New Greek comedy. Le Grand, P. E. (N ‘17)

 New life. McComb, S: (Jl ‘17)

 New manual of bayonet training and Practical bayonet fighting. (S ‘17)

 New Pacific. Fletcher, C: B. (Ag ‘17)

 New pocket dictionary of the English and Russian languages. Freese, J:
    H: (Jl ‘17)

 New poetry. Monroe, H., and Henderson, A. C., eds. (Ap ‘17)

 New Republic book. New Republic. (Je ‘17)

 New reservation of time. Tucker, W: J. (F ‘18)

 =New thought=
   Campbell, J. M. New thought Christianized. (N ‘17)
   Cocroft, S. Growth in silence. (Ja ‘18)
   Dresser, H. W. Handbook of the new thought. (Je ‘17)
   Dresser, H. W., ed. Spirit of the new thought. (Ja ‘18)

 =New York (city)=
   Pindar, G: N., and others. Guide to the nature treasures of New York
      city. (Jl ‘17)
   Shelton, W: H: Jumel mansion. (Ap ‘17)
   =Description=
     Shackleton, R. Book of New York. (F ‘18)
   =History=
     Peterson, A. E., and Edwards, G: W: New York as an eighteenth
        century municipality. (F ‘18)
   =Poetry=
     Armstrong, H. F., ed. Book of New York verse. (F ‘18)
   =Prisons=
     Fornaro, C. de. Modern purgatory. (F ‘18)

 =New Zealand=
   =Economic conditions=
     Hutchinson, R. H. “Socialism” of New Zealand. (My ‘17)

 Newark anniversary poems. Newark, New Jersey. Committee of one hundred.
    (O ‘17)

 Newcomers. Peattie, E. (D ‘17)

 News of spring. Maeterlinck, M. (F ‘18)

 =Newspapers=
   Bing, P. C. Country weekly. (F ‘18)
   Newspaper press directory and advertisers’ guide. (S ‘17)

 Next of kin. McClung, N. L. (Ja ‘18)

 =Nichiren=, 1222-1282
   Anesaki, M. Nichiren, the Buddhist prophet. (Ap ‘17)

 =Nicholas of Myra, Saint=, d 345?
   McKnight, G: H. St Nicholas. (F ‘18)

 =Nietzsche, Friedrich Wilhelm=, 1844-1900
   Figgis, J: N. Will to freedom. (O ‘17)
   Salter, W: M. Nietzsche the thinker. (Ja ‘18)

 Night club. Jenkins, H. G: (F ‘18)

 No Man’s Land. Sapper, pseud. (O ‘17)

 Noh. Fenollosa, E. F., and Pound, E. L. (N ‘17)

 =Nollekens, Joseph=, 1737-1823
   Smith, J: T: Nollekens and his times. (Ap ‘17)

 Noontime messages in a college chapel. (Ja ‘18)

 =Normal schools=
   Allen, W: H., and Pearse, C. G. Self-surveys by teacher-training
      schools. (Ja ‘18)

 North American idea. Macdonald, J. A. (N ‘17)

 Northern diamonds. Pollock, F. L. (D ‘17)

 =Northwest=
   Kellogg, L. P., ed. Early narratives of the Northwest, 1634-1669. (Ap
      ‘17)

 =Northwest mounted police=
   Deane, R: B. Mounted police life in Canada. (Jl ‘17)

 Note-book of an intelligence officer. Wood, E. F. (F ‘18)

 Notebooks. Butler, S: (O ‘17)

 Notes on military explosives. Weaver, E. M. (D ‘17)

 Notes on Shakespeare’s workmanship. Quiller-Couch, Sir A. T: (S ‘17)

 Notes on training, field artillery details. Moretti, O. (S ‘17)

 Nothing matters. Tree, Sir H. B. (My ‘17)

 Notre Dame verse. Strahan, S., and O’Donnell, C: L., comps. (D ‘17)

 No. 13, rue du Bon Diable. Hardy, A. S. (D ‘17)

 Nurse at the war. McDougall, G. (Ag ‘17)

 =Nurses and nursing=
   Aikens, C. A. Home nurse’s handbook of practical nursing. (Je ‘17)
   Campbell, F. Book of home nursing. (Ja ‘18)
   Thurstan, V. Text book of war nursing. (F ‘18)


 =O’Brien, Peter O’Brien, baron=, 1842-1914
   O’Brien, P: O., baron. Reminiscences of the Right Hon. Lord O’Brien
      (of Kilfenora). (Je ‘17)

 Observation. Conwell, R. H. (F ‘18)

 Observation of teaching. Maxwell, C: R. (F ‘18)

 Obstacles to peace. McClure, S: S. (Ap ‘17)

 =Obstetrics=
   Stacpoole, F. Advice to women. (F ‘18)

 =Occupations=
   =Diseases and hygiene=
     Kober, G: M., and Hanson, W: C., eds. Diseases of occupation and
        vocational hygiene. (Ap ‘17)
     Legge, T: M., and others. Origin, symptoms, pathology, treatment
        and prophylaxis of toxic jaundice. (N ‘17)
     Oliver, Sir T: Occupations from the social, hygienic and medical
        points of view. (Ap ‘17)

 Odd corners. Anderson, I. (Ja ‘18)

 Ode to France. Weeks, R. (Ag ‘17)

 Odes to trifles. Eassie, R. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Off with the old love. Fleming, G. (O ‘17)

 Offender and his relations to law and society. Lewis, B. G. (My ‘17)

 Office organization and management. Parsons, C. C. (N ‘17)

 Officer’s notes. Parker, R. M. (My ‘17)

 Official register and directory of women’s clubs in America. (Ag ‘17)

 Oh, Mary, be careful! Weston, G: (Mr ‘17)

 =Ohio=
   Ohio company of associates. Minutes and proceedings of the Ohio
      company of associates. (N ‘17)

 Old Christmas and other Kentucky tales in verse. Bradley, W: A. (N ‘17)

 Old Crow stories. Judson, K. B. (D ‘17)

 Old First Massachusetts coast artillery in war and peace. Cutler, F: M.
    (N ‘17)

 Old front line. Masefield, J: (F ‘18)

 Old frontier of France. Severance, F. H. (Jl ‘17)

 Old man Curry. Van Loan, C: E. (D ‘17)

 Old man Savarin stories. Thomson, E: W: (Ja ‘18)

 Old New England school. Fuess, C. M. (Jl ‘17)

 Old Peter’s Russian tales. Ransome, A. (Ja ‘18)

 Old roads out of Philadelphia. Faris, J: T. (Ja ‘18)

 Old seaport towns of the South. Cram, M. (D ‘17)

 Old tavern signs. Endell, F. A. G. (Ap ‘17)

 Old world through old eyes. Ware, M. S. (O ‘17)

 On collecting Japanese colour-prints. Stewart, B. (Ja ‘18)

 On contemporary literature. Sherman, S. P. (F ‘18)

 On falling in love. Turner, A. (S ‘17)

 On growth and form. Thompson, D. W. (Ja ‘18)

 On the edge of the war zone. Aldrich, M. (O ‘17)

 On the headwaters of Peace river. Haworth, P. L. (Ja ‘18)

 On the right of the British line. Nobbs, G. (O ‘17)

 On the road from Mons. Clifton-Shelton, A. (Ja ‘18)

 On the road to Bagdad. Brereton, F: S. (Ap ‘17)

 On the Russian front. Liddell, R. S. (Ap ‘17)

 On the threshold of the unseen. Barrett, Sir W: F. (O ‘17)

 On the wings of the morning. Grant, A. (F ‘18)

 On vital reserves. James, W: (Jl ‘17)

 1000 hints on flowers and birds. Croy, M. S. (Ja ‘18)

 1000 hints on vegetable gardening. Croy, M. S. (Ja ‘18)

 1000 things a mother should know. Croy, M. S. (Je ‘17)

 One young man. Williams, J. E. H. (Jl ‘17)

 Only a dog. Smith, B. (My ‘17)

 Open boats. Noyes, A. (Jl ‘17)

 =Operas=
   Krehbiel, H: E: Second book of operas. (Mr ‘17)
   Wier, A. E. Grand opera with a victrola. (Jl ‘17)

 Operation and maintenance of irrigation systems. Harding, S. T. (F ‘18)

 Operation and tactical use of the Lewis automatic rifle. (S ‘17)

 Operation of gas works. Russell, W. M. (Jl ‘17)

 Oppressed English. Beith, J: H. (Ag ‘17)

 Optimist. Taber, S. (F ‘18)

 Ordeal by fire. Berger, M. (Mr ‘17)

 Order of nature. Henderson, L. J. (S ‘17)

 Ordered liberty. Duncan-Jones, A. S. (Ja ‘18)

 =Ore dressing=
   Del Mar, A. Tube milling. (Ja ‘18)

 =Oregon=
   =Description and travel=
     Murphy, T: D. Oregon, the picturesque. (Ja ‘18)

 Organism and environment as illustrated by the physiology of breathing.
    Haldane, J: S. (O ‘17)

 Organism as a whole. Loeb, J. (S ‘17)

 Organization and control. Gerstenberg, C: W., and Johnson, W. S. (N
    ‘17)

 Origin and evolution of life. Osborn, H: F. (N ‘17)

 Origin and growth of the Hebrew religion. Fowler, H: T. (S ‘17)

 Origin, symptoms, pathology, treatment and prophylaxis of toxic
    jaundice. Legge, T: M., and others. (N ‘17)

 Origins of the Triple alliance. Coolidge, A. C. (O ‘17)

 =Orthodoxy=
   Quick, O. C. Essays in orthodoxy. (Ja ‘18)

 Other Brown. Luehrmann, A. (N ‘17)

 Our ancestors in Europe. Hall, J. (Ja ‘18)

 Our backdoor neighbors. Pellett, F. C. (Ja ‘18)

 Our democracy. Tufts, J. H. (F ‘18)

 Our flag and its message. Moss, J. A., and Stewart, M. B. (N ‘17)

 Our flag and our songs. Ogden, H: A. (Ag ‘17)

 Our flag in verse and prose. Schauffler, R. H., comp. and ed. (N ‘17)

 Our Hawaii. London, C. K. (F ‘18)

 Our hidden forces. Boirac, É. (S ‘17)

 Our Minnesota. Pollock, H. M. (Jl ‘17)

 Our money and the state. Withers, H. (N ‘17)

 Our next-door neighbors. Maniates, B. K. (Ap ‘17)

 Our part in the great war. Gleason, A. H. (Je ‘17)

 Our square and the people in it. Adams, S: H. (D ‘17)

 Our United States army. Wright, H. S. (Jl ‘17)

 Out of a clear sky. Daviess, M. T. (Jl ‘17)

 Out of the house. Irwin, M. E. F. (Mr ‘17)

 Out of their own mouths. (Ja ‘18)

 Out where the West begins. Chapman, A. (Jl ‘17)

 =Outdoor life=
   Fordyce, C. P. Touring afoot. (S ‘17)
   Pinkerton, K. S. Woodcraft for women. (S ‘17)
   Verrill, A. H. Book of camping. (S ‘17)

 Outdoor theaters. Waugh, F. A. (Ja ‘18)

 Outline of applied sociology. Fairchild, H: P. (F ‘18)

 Outline of the history of printing. Peddie, R. A. (N ‘17)

 Outlines of economics. Ely, R: T., and others. (Ap ‘17)

 Outlines of English and American literature. Long, W: J. (Jl ‘17)

 Outlines of medieval history. Previté Orton, C: W: (Je ‘17)

 Outlook for religion. Orchard, W: E. (Ja ‘18)

 Outposts of the fleet. Noble, E: (D ‘17)

 Over Japan way. Hitchcock, A. M. (F ‘18)

 “Over the top.” Empey, A. G. (Ag ‘17)

 =Owen, Caroline Dale.= See Snedeker, C. D. O.

 Oxford book of English mystical verse. Nicholson, D. H. S., and Lee, A.
    H. E., eds. (N ‘17)

 Oxford stamp. Aydelotte, F. (F ‘18)

 =Oxford university=
   Aydelotte, F. Oxford stamp. (F ‘18)


 =Pacific ocean=
   Stephens, H: M., and Bolton, H. E., eds. Pacific ocean in history.
      (Jl ‘17)

 Pacific settlement of international disputes. Heath, C. (My ‘17)

 Pages from the journal of an author. Dostoevskii, F. M. (S ‘17)

 =Paint=
   Sabin, A. H. Industrial and artistic technology of paint and varnish.
      (Je ‘17)

 =Painters, American=
   Bryant, L. American pictures and their painters. (S ‘17)

 =Painting=
   Carr, J. W: C. Ideals of painting. (Je ‘17)
   Cox, K. Concerning painting. (N ‘17)

 =Painting, Italian=
   Berenson, B. Venetian painting in America. (My ‘17)

 =Paintings=
   Brigham, G. R. Study and enjoyment of pictures. (Je ‘17)
   Bryant, L. American pictures and their painters. (S ‘17)
   Holme, C:, ed. Art of the British empire overseas. (O ‘17)

 =Palestine=
   Hyamson, A. M. Palestine. (D ‘17)
   Sacher, H., ed. Zionism and the Jewish future. (Ap ‘17)
   =Description and travel=
     Heusser, A. H: Land of the prophets. (My ‘17)

 Pan Tadeusz. Mickiewicz, A. (Ja ‘18)

 =Pangermanism=
   Chéradame, A. Pangerman plot unmasked. (Ap ‘17)
   Dampierre, L. M. M. J. de, marquis. German imperialism and
      international law. (Ag ‘17)
   Johnson, D. W. Peril of Prussianism. (Ag ‘17)
   Naumann, F. Central Europe. (Ap ‘17)

 Pan-Germanism versus Christendom. Prüm, É. (My ‘17)

 =Paper making and trade=
   Maddox, H. A. Paper. (Jl ‘17)

 Papers from Picardy. Pym, T: W., and Gordon, G. (D ‘17)

 Paradise auction. Bartley, N. I. (S ‘17)

 =Paraguay=
   Koebel, W: H: Paraguay. (My ‘17)

 Parish theatre. Smith, J: T. (D ‘17)

 Parliamentary reminiscences and reflections, 1868 to 1885. Hamilton,
    Lord, G: F. (S ‘17)

 Parnassus on wheels. Morley, C. D. (N ‘17)

 =Parodies=
   Squire, J: C. Tricks of the trade. (S ‘17)

 Party. Chekhov, A. P. (D ‘17)

 Passing of the great race. Grant, M. (Ag ‘17)

 =Patagonia=
   Hudson, W: H: Idle days in Patagonia. (Mr ‘17)

 Path of the modern Russian stage. Bakshy, A. (Je ‘17)

 =Patriotism=
   Hagedorn, H. You are the hope of the world! (O ‘17)

 =Paul, Saint=
   Clark, F. E: In the footsteps of St Paul. (F ‘18)
   Jones, R. M. St Paul, the hero. (O ‘17)
   Mathews, B. J. Paul the dauntless. (Ap ‘17)

 =Paula, Saint=, 347-404
   Zahm, J: A. Great inspirers. (Je ‘17)

 =Peace=
   Brailsford, H: N. League of nations. (My ‘17)
   Bryce, J. B., viscount, and others. Proposals for the prevention of
      future wars. (O ‘17)

   Collin, C. C. War against war, and the enforcement of peace. (Ag ‘17)
   Dickinson, G. L. Choice before us. (O ‘17)
   Erasmus, D. Complaint of peace. (Ag ‘17)
   Federal council of the churches of Christ in America. Library of
      Christian cooperation. (Je ‘17)
   Goldsmith, R. League to enforce peace. (Mr ‘17)
   Hazen, C: D., and others. Three peace congresses of the nineteenth
      century. (Je ‘17)
   Heath, C. Pacific settlement of international disputes. (My ‘17)
   League to enforce peace. Enforced peace. (Ap ‘17)
   McClure, S: S. Obstacles to peace. (Ap ‘17)
   McCormick, H. F. Via pacis. (Jl ‘17)
   Marburg, T. League of nations. (Ja ‘18)
   Quin, M. Problem of human peace. (Ja ‘18)
   Richard, P. To the nations. (My ‘17)
   Taylor, C: F. Conclusive peace. (Ap ‘17)
   Veblen, T. B. Inquiry into the nature of peace and the terms of its
      perpetuation. (Jl ‘17)

 Peacock pie. De La Mare, W. J: (Jl ‘17)

 Pebbles on the shore. Gardiner, A. G. (O ‘17)

 Pecadora (Daniela). Guimerá, A. (My ‘17)

 Peggy of Roundabout lane. Turpin, E. H: L. (D ‘17)

 Pelle the conqueror: daybreak. Nexö, M. A. (Ag ‘17)

 =Penn, William=, 1644-1718
   Graham, J: W: William Penn. (O ‘17)

 =Pennsylvania=
   =Description and travel=
     Faris, J: T. Old roads out of Philadelphia. (Ja ‘18)
   =Police=
     Mayo, K. Justice to all. (Mr ‘17)

 Penultimate words. Shestov, L. (Ja ‘18)

 =Peonies=
   Harding, A. Book of the peony. (Je ‘17)

 Perfect memory. Dana, M. (Ja ‘18)

 Peril of Prussianism. Johnson, D. W. (Ag ‘17)

 Perils of peace. Chesterton, C. E: (My ‘17)

 =Periodicals=
   Eastman, M. Journalism versus art. (Je ‘17)
   Esenwein, J. B. Writing for the magazines. (Ap ‘17)
   =Indexes=
     Faxon, F: W., ed. Annual magazine subject-index, 1916. (My ‘17)

 =Persia=
   =Description and travel=
     Dwight, H. G. Persian miniatures. (Ja ‘18)

 Personal hygiene and physical training for women. Galbraith, A. M. (Je
    ‘17)

 =Personality=
   Major, C. T. How to develop your personality. (Ja ‘18)
   Severn, E. Psychology of behavior. (F ‘18)
   Tagore, Sir R. Personality. (N ‘17)

 =Peru=
   =Description and travel=
     Bowman, I. Andes of southern Peru. (Ap ‘17)

 =Pétain, Henri Philippe Bénoni Omer=
   Purinton, E: E. Pétain, the prepared. (D ‘17)

 Peter Sanders, retired. Gerould, G. H. (Je ‘17)

 =Petroleum industry and trade=
   Barron, C. W. Mexican problem. (O ‘17)

 =Pets=
   Crandall, L. S. Pets. (Jl ‘17)

 =Philadelphia=
   Lippincott, H. M. Early Philadelphia. (Ja ‘18)

 =Philippine Islands=
   Craig, A., ed. Former Philippines thru foreign eyes. (Je ‘17)
   Craig, A., and Benitez, C. Philippine progress prior to 1898. (Je
      ‘17)
   Elliott, C: B. Philippines. (Ja ‘18)
   Stephens, H: M., and Bolton, H. E., eds. Pacific ocean in history.
      (Jl ‘17)
   =Description and travel=
     Anderson, I. Spell of the Hawaiian Islands and the Philippines. (Ap
        ‘17)

 =Phillips academy, Andover=
   Fuess, C. M. Old New England school. (Jl ‘17)

 =Philosophy=
   Boutroux, È. Contingency of the laws of nature. (F ‘18)
   Dewey, J:, and others. Creative intelligence. (Mr ‘17)
   Diderot, D. Early philosophical works. (N ‘17)
   Durant, W: J. Philosophy and the social problem. (D ‘17)
   Grabo, C. H: Amateur philosopher. (Ap ‘17)
   Husik, I: History of mediaeval Jewish philosophy. (Je ‘17)
   Pringle-Pattison, A. S. Idea of God in the light of recent
      philosophy. (N ‘17)
   Sellars, R. W. Essentials of philosophy. (Ja ‘18)

 Philosophy. Waste, H., pseud. (Je ‘17)

 =Philosophy, German=
   Santayana, G: Egotism in German philosophy. (Ag ‘17)

 =Philosophy, Hindu=
   Achārya, A. Brahmadarsanam. (Ja ‘18)

 =Philosophy and religion=
   Jones, W: T. Spiritual ascent of man. (My ‘17)

 Philosophy of William James. Flournoy, T. (Ap ‘17)

 Phœnix. Warren, C. M. (Ap ‘17)

 =Phonograph records=
   Wier, A. E. Grand opera with a victrola. (Jl ‘17)

 =Photography=
   Anderson, P. L: Pictorial photography. (D ‘17)

 Physical basis of society. Kelsey, C. (F ‘18)

 Physical chemistry of vital phenomena. McClendon, J. F. (Ja ‘18)

 =Physical education=
   Hancock, H. I. Physical training for business men. (D ‘17)

 Physical effects of smoking. Fisher, G: J:, and Berry, E. (N ‘17)

 Physical training for business men. Hancock, H. I. (D ‘17)

 =Physics=
   Franklin, W: S., and MacNutt, B. General physics. (S ‘17)
   Northrup, E. F. Laws of physical science. (Jl ‘17)

 =Physiology=
   Stiles, P. G. Human physiology. (Jl ‘17)

 Physiology of food and economy in diet. Bayliss, W: M. (N ‘17)

 Piano mastery. Brower, H. M. (Ja ‘18)

 =Pianoforte=
   =Instruction and study=
     Brower, H. M. Piano mastery. (Ja ‘18)

 Piccadilly Jim. Wodehouse, P. G. (My ‘17)

 Pictorial photography. Anderson, P. L: (D ‘17)

 Pictures and other passages from Henry James. James, H: (D ‘17)

 Pictures of ruined Belgium. Verdavaine, G. (N ‘17)

 Pictures of war work in England. Pennell, J. (My ‘17)

 =Piers=
   Greene, C. Wharves and piers. (O ‘17)

 Pilgrimage: Backwater. Richardson, D. M. (My ‘17)

 Pilgrimage with a milliner’s needle. Walther, A. H. L. (N ‘17)

 Pilgrims into folly. Irwin, W. A. (S ‘17)

 Pilot. Greene, H. P. (Je ‘17)

 Pincher Martin, O. D. Dawson, C. (Je ‘17)

 Pine-tree. Takeda Izumo. (My ‘17)

 Pioneer days. Carmichael, M. H., comp. (D ‘17)

 Pioneering where the world is old. Tisdale, A. (Ja ‘18)

 “Pip.” Beith, J: H. (Mr ‘17)

 Pippin, a wandering flame. Richards, L. E. (Jl ‘17)

 Pirate bridge. Foster. R. F: (Mr ‘17)

 =Pitt, William, 1st earl of Chatham=, 1708-1778
   Hotblack, K. Chatham’s colonial policy. (Ja ‘18)

 Place of women in the church. Goudge, H: L., and others. (Ja ‘18)

 Plain song, 1914-1916. Phillpotts, E. (N ‘17)

 Plant succession. Clements, F: E: (My ‘17)

 =Plants, Cultivated=
   Palmer, F: E. Milady’s house plants. (D ‘17)

 Plants poisonous to live stock. Long, H. C. (S ‘17)

 =Plattsburg, N.Y.=
   French, A. At Plattsburg. (My ‘17)
   Rookie rhymes. (N ‘17)

 Plattsburg manual. Ellis, O. O., and Garey, E. B. (My ‘17)

 Plattsburgers. Pier, A. S. (O ‘17)

 Plays. Benavente y Martínez, J. (O ‘17)

 Plays. Ostrovskii, A. N. (D ‘17)

 Plays of gods and men. Dunsany, E: J: M. D. P., 18th baron. (Je ‘17)

 Plots and playwrights. Massey, E: (N ‘17)

 Plunder. Roche, A. S. (Ap ‘17)

 =Poe, Edgar Allan=, 1809-1849
   Ewers, H. H. Edgar Allan Poe. (Mr ‘17)

 =Poems, Books of=
   Adams, F. P. Weights and measures. (Ja ‘18)
   Aiken, C. P. Jig of Forslin. (Mr ‘17)
   Annual of new poetry, 1917. (O ‘17)
   Armstrong, H. F., ed. Book of New York verse. (F ‘18)
   Bashford, H: H. Songs out of school. (My ‘17)
   Beckley, Z., and Gollomb, J., comps. Songs of courage. (O ‘17)
   Beers, H: A. Two twilights. (N ‘17)
   Benét, W: R. Great white wall. (Je ‘17)
   Binyon, L. The cause. (Jl ‘17)
   Boyajian, Z. C., comp. Armenian legends and poems. (Ap ‘17)
   Bradley, W: A. Garlands and wayfarings. (F ‘18)
   Bradley, W: A. Old Christmas and other Kentucky tales in verse. (N
      ‘17)
   Braithwaite, W: S. Anthology of magazine verse for 1916. (Ag ‘17)
   Bridges, R. Ibant obscuri. (O ‘17)
   Brooke, H: B. Poems. (O ‘17)
   Brown, A. Road to Castaly. (Ap ‘17)
   Bunner, H: C. Poems. (N ‘17)
   Burton, R: E. Poems of earth’s meaning. (Jl ‘17)
   Bynner, W. Grenstone poems. (N ‘17)
   Chapman, A. Out where the West begins. (Jl ‘17)
   Christian, W. E. Rhymes of the rookies. (Ja ‘18)
   Clarke, G: H., ed. Treasury of war poetry. (N ‘17)
   Cleghorn, S. N. Portraits and protests. (N ‘17)
   Cranmer-Byng, L. A., tr. Feast of lanterns. (O ‘17)
   Crow, M., comp. Christ in the poetry of today. (O ‘17)
   Dario, R. Eleven poems. (Je ‘17)
   Davies, W: H: Collected poems. (Ap ‘17)
   Eassie, R. M. Odes to trifles. (Ja ‘18)
   Ficke, A. D. April elegy. (Je ‘17)
   Fifes and drums. (Ag ‘17)
   Flecker, J. E. Collected poems. (Ap ‘17)
   Fuller, H: B. Lines long and short. (Mr ‘17)
   Garrison, T. Dreamers. (N ‘17)
   Garvin, J: W:, ed. Canadian poets and poetry. (Mr ‘17)
   Gibson, W. W. Livelihood. (Mr ‘17)
   Gibson, W. W. Poems (1904-1917). (N ‘17)
   Glaenzer, R: B. Beggar and king. (F ‘18)
   Griffith, W: Loves and losses of Pierrot. (Ap ‘17)
   Guest, E. A. Heap o’ livin’. (Je ‘17)
   Harding, R. G. Lark went singing. (Jl ‘17)
   Hardy, O. H: In Greek seas. (D ‘17)
   Hay, J: Complete poetical works. (N ‘17)
   Haynes, W., and Harrison, J. L., comps. Camp-fire verse. (Ja ‘18)
   Hazard, C. Yosemite. (Jl ‘17)
   Heine, H. Poems. (My ‘17)
   Hodgson, R. Poems. (S ‘17)
   Holley, H. Divinations and Creation. (Je ‘17)
   Johns, O. G. Asphalt. (Jl ‘17)
   Keary, C: F. Religious hours. (My ‘17)
   Kettle, T: M. Poems and parodies. (Je ‘17)
   Kilmer, J. Main street. (N ‘17)
   Leamy, E. S. My ship. (Ja ‘18)
   Ledwidge, F. Songs of peace. (N ‘17)
   Letts, W. M. Hallow-e’en. (S ‘17)
   Letts, W. M. Spires of Oxford. (O ‘17)
   Lindsay, N. V. Chinese nightingale. (D ‘17)
   Litchfield, G. D. Song of the sirens. (S ‘17)
   Livesay, F. R., tr. Songs of Ukraina. (Ap ‘17)
   McCracken, E., ed. To mother. (O ‘17)
   MacGill, P. Soldier songs. (Jl ‘17)
   Masefield, J: Lollingdon Downs. (S ‘17)
   Masefield, J: Poems. (O ‘17)
   Mickiewicz, A. Pan Tadeusz. (Ja ‘18)
   Monroe, H., and Henderson, A. C., eds. New poetry. (Ap ‘17)
   Montgomery, L. M. Watchman. (Jl ‘17)
   Morley, C. D. Songs for a little house. (Ja ‘18)
   Naidu, S. Broken wing. (My ‘17)
   Nekrassov, N. A. Who can be happy and free in Russia? (Jl ‘17)
   Newark, New Jersey. Committee of one hundred. Newark anniversary
      poems. (O ‘17)
   Nicholson, D. H. S., and Lee, A. H. E., eds. Oxford book of English
      mystical verse. (N ‘17)
   O’Brien, E: J. H. White fountains. (Ap ‘17)
   Oppenheim, J. Book of self. (Jl ‘17)
   Oxenham, J: “All’s well!” (My ‘17)
   Oxenham, J: Vision splendid. (S ‘17)
   Peterson, A. Andvari’s ring. (My ‘17)
   Phillpotts, E. Plain song, 1914-1916. (N ‘17)
   Phoutrides, A. E. Lights at dawn. (N ‘17)
   Piper, E. F. Barbed wire. (Ja ‘18)
   Poe, E. A. Poems. (F ‘18)
   Pound, E. L. Lustra. (F ‘18)
   Randolph, T: Poems and Amyntas. (Je ‘17)
   Reed, E: B. Sea moods. (Ja ‘18)
   Reed, H. L. Memorial day. (Ja ‘18)
   Rice, C. Y. Trails sunward. (Je ‘17)
   Rice, G. Songs of the stalwart. (F ‘18)
   Riley, J. W. Name of Old Glory. (S ‘17)
   Robinson, E. A. Merlin. (Je ‘17)
   Schnittkind, H: T:, ed. Poets of the future. (Je ‘17)
   Scollard, C. Let the flag wave. (N ‘17)
   Segar, M. G., comp. Some minor poems of the middle ages. (Jl ‘17)
   Shepard, O. Lonely flute. (F ‘18)
   Some imagist poets, 1917. (Je ‘17)
   Sorley, C: H. Marlborough. (Ap ‘17)
   Squire, J: C. Tricks of the trade. (S ‘17)
   Stempel, G. H., comp. and ed. Book of ballads, old and new. (N ‘17)
   Stevens, R. D. and D. H., eds. American patriotic prose and verse. (F
      ‘18)
   Stoddard, C: W. Poems. (O ‘17)
   Strahan, S., and O’Donnell, C: L., comps. Notre Dame verse. (D ‘17)
   Swinburne, A. C: Posthumous poems. (S ‘17)
   Teasdale, S., comp. Answering voice. (O ‘17)
   Teasdale, S. Love songs. (N ‘17)
   Tietjens, E. Profiles from China. (F ‘18)
   Underhill, E. Theophanies. (Ap ‘17)
   Underwood, J: C. War flames. (Jl ‘17)
   Untermeyer, L: These times. (Je ‘17)
   Van Dyke, H: Red flower. (Ja ‘18)
   Verhaeren, É. Afternoon. (My ‘17)
   Verhaeren, É. Love poems. (O ‘17)
   Wallace, E. K. Feelings and things. (Jl ‘17)
   Watson, Sir W: Man who saw. (Ag ‘17)
   Watson, Sir W: Retrogression. (Ap ‘17)
   Weeks, R. Ode to France. (Ag ‘17)
   Welsh, J. C. Songs of a miner. (O ‘17)
   Wheeler, W: R., ed. Book of verse of the great war. (Ja ‘18)
   White, A. C., ed. Little book of Irish verse. (Ap ‘17)
   Widdemer, M. Factories. (N ‘17)
   Wilkinson, M. O. Golden songs of the Golden state. (F ‘18)
   Wood, C. Glad of earth. (Je ‘17)
   Woodberry, G: E: Ideal passion. (D ‘17)
   Wyatt, E. F. Wind in the corn. (Ja ‘18)
   “X.,” pseud. War poems. (My ‘17)

 Poetic year for 1916. Braithwaite, W: S. B. (O ‘17)

 =Poetry=
   Watts-Dunton, W. T. Poetry and the Renascence of wonder. (Ap ‘17)

 =Poets, American=
   Lowell, A. Tendencies in modern American poetry. (D ‘17)

 Poets of the future. Schnittkind, H: T:, ed. (Je ‘17)

 =Poisonous plants=
   Long, H. C. Plants poisonous to live stock. (S ‘17)

 =Poland=
   Gibbons, H. A. Reconstruction of Poland and the Near East. (O ‘17)
   =History=
     Lewinski-Corwin, E: H: Political history of Poland. (N ‘17)
     Whitton, F: E. History of Poland. (F ‘18)

 Polar hunters. Rolt-Wheeler, F. W: (Jl ‘17)

 =Police=
   Crump, I. Boys’ book of policemen. (Je ‘17)
   Mayo, K. Justice to all. (Mr ‘17)

 =Polish fiction=
   Benecke, E. C. M., and Busch, M., trs. More tales by Polish authors.
      (Jl ‘17)

 =Polish question=
   Duff, J. D., ed. Russian realities and problems. (Jl ‘17)

 Political frontiers and boundary making. Holdich, Sir T: H. (Ap ‘17)

 Political history of Poland. Lewinski-Corwin, E: H: (N ‘17)

 Political ideals. Russell, B. A. W: (O ‘17)

 =Political science=
   Guthrie, W: D. Magna carta. (Ap ‘17)
   Russell, B. A. W: Political ideals. (O ‘17)
   Spencer, H. Man versus the state. (Ap ‘17)
   Young, J. S. State and government. (N ‘17)
   =Study and teaching=
     American political science association. Teaching of government. (Je
        ‘17)

 Politics and personalities. Russell, G: W: E. (Ja ‘18)

 Polly and the princess. Dowd, E. C. (F ‘18)

 Pope’s favourite. McCabe, J. (Jl ‘17)

 Popular aspects of oriental religions. Hartman, L: O. (Jl ‘17)

 =Port Sunlight=
   Davison, T: R. Port Sunlight. (D ‘17)

 Portland cement industry. Brown, W: A. (S ‘17)

 Portmanteau plays. Walker, S. (O ‘17)

 =Porto Rico=
   =Social conditions=
     Fleagle, F. K. Social problems in Porto Rico. (D ‘17)

 Portrait of the artist as a young man. Joyce, J. (My ‘17)

 Portraits and protests. Cleghorn, S. N. (N ‘17)

 =Portugal=
   Young, G: Portugal old and young. (N ‘17)

 Possession. Wadsley, O. (Ap ‘17)

 Possible peace. Hugins, R. (Ag ‘17)

 =Postal service=
   =United States=
     Roper, D. C. United States post office. (D ‘17)

 Posthumous poems. Swinburne, A. C: (S ‘17)

 =Potatoes=
   Gilbert, A. W., and others. Potato. (Jl ‘17)

 =Poultry=
   Dryden, J. Poultry breeding and management. (Jl ‘17)
   Jasper, Mme. Flemish system of poultry rearing. (My ‘17)

 =Poverty=
   Lansbury, G: Your part in poverty. (D ‘17)

 =Power plants=
   Fernald, R. H., and Orrok, G: A. Engineering of power plants. (Jl
      ‘17)
   Harding, L: A., and Willard, A. C. Mechanical equipment of buildings.
      (D ‘17)

 Practical banking. Wolfe, O. H. (Ja ‘18)

 Practical book of architecture. Price, C: M. (Ap ‘17)

 Practical book of outdoor rose growing for the home garden. Thomas, G:
    C. (S ‘17)

 Practical cookbook. Howard, M. W. (Je ‘17)

 Practical food economy. Kirk, A. G. (S ‘17)

 Practical marine engineering. Durand, W: F: (Jl ‘17)

 Practical motor boat handling, seamanship and piloting. Chapman, C: F:
    (N ‘17)

 Practical structural design. McCullough, E. (F ‘18)

 Practical use of books and libraries. Ward, G. O. (Jl ‘17)

 =Pragmatism=
   Dewey, J:, and others. Creative intelligence. (Mr ‘17)

 =Prayers=
   Beard, F., comp. Prayers for use in home, school and Sunday school.
      (Ja ‘18)

 Preacher of Cedar Mountain. Seton, E. T. (Je ‘17)

 =Preaching=
   McDowell, W: F. Good ministers of Jesus Christ. (S ‘17)

 Predetermination of true costs and relatively true selling prices.
    Parkhurst, F: A: (Je ‘17)

 =Pregnancy=
   Cooke, J. B. Baby, before and after arrival. (Je ‘17)
   Hirsch, C. Diary of an expectant mother. (O ‘17)
   Stacpoole, F. Advice to women. (F ‘18)

 Preliminary mathematics. Austin, F. E. (Ag ‘17)

 Present-day Europe. Stoddard, T. L. (S ‘17)

 =Presidents (United States)=
   Moran, T: F. American presidents. (F ‘18)

 Prevention of disease. Winslow, K. (My ‘17)

 Preventive medicine and hygiene. Rosenau, M. J. (Ja ‘18)

 Priest of the ideal. Graham, S. (D ‘17)

 Primitive worship and the prayer book. Gwynne, W. (F ‘18)

 Prince of Parthia. Godfrey, T: (N ‘17)

 Princess of Let’s Pretend. Calhoun, D. D. (S ‘17)

 =Princeton university=
   =History=
   Norris, E. M. Story of Princeton. (D ‘17)

 Principle of nationalities. Zangwill, I. (Ag ‘17)

 Principles and practice of the system of control over parliamentary
    grants. Durell, A. J. V. (O ‘17)

 Principles of accounting. Gilman, S. (My ‘17)

 Principles of aërography. McAdie, A. G: (Ja ‘18)

 Principles of American state administration. Mathews, J: M. (My ‘17)

 Principles of insurance. Gephart, W: F. (My ‘17)

 Principles of natural taxation. Fillebrown, C: B. (Je ‘17)

 Principles of social reconstruction. Eng title of Why men fight.
    Russell, B. A. W: (Mr ‘17)

 =Printing=
   Peddie, R. A. Outline of the history of printing. (N ‘17)
   =History=
     Aldis, H. G. Printed book. (S ‘17)

 =Prisons=
   Bacon, C., comp. Prison reform. (Mr ‘17)
   Fornaro, C. de, Modern purgatory. (F ‘18)
   Jaffray, J. K., ed. Prison and the prisoner. (Ja ‘18)
   Lewis, B. G. Offender and his relations to law and society. (My ‘17)

 Private Peat. Peat, H. R. (F ‘18)

 Problem of human peace. Quin, M. (Ja ‘18)

 Problems of secondary education. Snedden, D: S: (Jl ‘17)

 Problems of the finishing room. Schmidt, W. K: (Jl ‘17)

 Problems of the playwright. Hamilton, C. M. (D ‘17)

 Productive agriculture. Gehrs, J: H: (N ‘17)

 Productive plant husbandry. Davis, K. C. (D ‘17)

 Profession of teaching. Woodley, O. I. and M. V. (Ja ‘18)

 Professionalism and originality. Hayward, F. H. (O ‘17)

 Profiles from China. Tietjens, E. (F ‘18)

 Profit and wages. Kleene, G. A. (My ‘17)

 =Progress=
   Marvin, F. S., ed. Progress and history. (Jl ‘17)

 Progress. Cunninghame Graham, R. B. (F ‘18)

 Progress. See Vanzype, G. Mother nature. (N ‘17)

 Progress of capitalism in England. Cunningham, W: (N ‘17)

 =Prohibition=
   Beman, L. T., comp. Selected articles on prohibition of the liquor
      traffic. (Ap ‘17)

 =Projectiles=
   Alford, L. P., ed. Manufacture of artillery ammunition. (Jl ‘17)

 Promise of country life. Bowman, J. C., ed. (Ap ‘17)

 =Pronunciation=
   Vizetelly, F. H. Desk-book of twenty-five thousand words frequently
      mispronounced. (Jl ‘17)

 Prophet of the spirit. Longacre, L. B. (Ja ‘18)

 Proposals for the prevention of future wars. Bryce, J. B., viscount,
    and others. (O ‘17)

 Pros and cons in the great war. Magnus, L. A. (Ja ‘18)

 Prose Edda. Snorri Sturluson. (S ‘17)

 =Prostitution=
   Miner, M. E. Slavery of prostitution. (Je ‘17)

 Provocation of France. Bracq, J. C. (Ap ‘17)

 Psychical and supernormal phenomena. Joire, P. M. J. (O ‘17)

 =Psychical research=
   Barrett, Sir W: F. On the threshold of the unseen. (O ‘17)
   Boirac, É. Our hidden forces. (S ‘17)
   Hill, J: A. Psychical investigations. (O ‘17)
   Joire, P. M. J. Psychical and supernormal phenomena. (O ‘17)

 =Psychoanalysis=
   Adler, A. Neurotic constitution. (N ‘17)
   Coriat, I. H: What is psychoanalysis? (S ‘17)
   Hitschmann, E. Freud’s theories of the neuroses. (N ‘17)
   Lay, W. Man’s unconscious conflict. (Je ‘17)
   Pfister, O. R. Psychoanalytic method. (O ‘17)

 Psychoanalytic method. Pfister, O. R. (O ‘17)

 =Psychology=
   Hollingworth, H. L., and Poffenberger, A. T. Applied psychology. (Ja
      ‘18)
   Judd, C: H. Psychology, general introduction. (F ‘18)
   Severn, E. Psychology of behavior. (F ‘18)

 =Psychology, Educational=
   Bronner, A. F. Psychology of special abilities and disabilities. (My
      ‘17)
   Gordon, K. Educational psychology. (Ja ‘18)
   Hindu mind training. (S ‘17)
   Meredith, C. M. Educational bearings of modern psychology. (Je ‘17)
   Strayer, G: D., and Norsworthy, N. How to teach. (S ‘17)

 =Psychology, Pathological=
   Chapman, J. C., and Rush, G. P. Scientific measurement of classroom
      products. (O ‘17)
   Healy, W: Mental conflicts and misconduct. (Jl ‘17)
   Wells, F: L. Mental adjustments. (N ‘17)

 =Psychology, Physiological=
   Melville, N. J: Standard method of testing juvenile mentality by the
      Binet-Simon scale. (Jl ‘17)
   Washburn, M. F. Movement and mental imagery. (Ap ‘17)

 Psychology of citizenship. Weeks, A. D. (Je ‘17)

 Psychology of the great war. Le Bon, G. (Ag ‘17)

 =Ptomaine poisoning=
   Jordan, E. O. Food poisoning. (N ‘17)

 =Public affairs=
   Public affairs information service. Bulletin. (Mr ‘17)

 Public defender. Goldman, M. C. (My ‘17)

 =Public health=
   Wood, H. B. Sanitation practically applied. (Jl ‘17)

 Public secondary education. Davis, C. O. (S ‘17)

 =Public speaking=
   Kleiser, G. Talks on talking. (Je ‘17)

 =Public utilities=
   =Rates=
     Barker, H. Public utility rates. (O ‘17)
   =Valuation=
     Grunsky, C. E. and C. E., jr. Valuation, depreciation and the
        rate-base. (My ‘17)

 =Puritans=
   Hanscom, E. D., ed. Heart of the Puritan. (Ja ‘18)

 =Pushkin, Alexander Sergyevitch=, 1799-1837
   Dostoevskii, F. M. Pages from the journal of an author. (S ‘17)

 =Pyeshkoff, Alexei Maximovitch.= See Gorky, M., pseud.

 =Pythagoras=, 6th cent., B. C.
   Fabre d’Olivet, A., tr. Golden verses of Pythagoras. (Je ‘17)


 =Quebec=
   =Social conditions=
     Riddell, W. A. Rise of ecclesiastical control in Quebec. (S ‘17)

 Queens of Kungahälla. Lagerlöf, S. O. L. (O ‘17)

 Quest of El Dorado. Zahm, J: A. (Ja ‘18)

 Quest of Ledgar Dunstan. Sheppard, A. T. (N ‘17)

 Questions of war and peace. Hobhouse, L. T. (Ap ‘17)

 Quito to Bogotá. Veatch, A. C. (D ‘17)


 =Race problems=
   Humphrey, S. K. Mankind. (D ‘17)
   Macdonald, A. J: M. Trade, politics and Christianity in Africa and
      the East. (Jl ‘17)

 Radiodynamics. Miessner, B: F. (Je ‘17)

 =Railroads=
   Lavis, F. Railway estimates, design, quantities and costs. (D ‘17)
   Peabody, J. Railway organization and management. (Je ‘17)
   Vanderblue, H. B. Railroad valuation. (Ag ‘17)
   Williams, C. C. Design of railway location. (S ‘17)
   =New England=
     Bradlee, F. B. C. Eastern railroad. (Ja ‘18)
   =United States=
     Hungerford, E: Railroad problems. (N ‘17)
   =Valuation=
     Vanderblue. H. B. Railroad valuation. (D ‘17)

 =Railroads and state=
   Wymond, M. Government partnership in railroads. (Ap ‘17)

 Railway estimates, design, quantities and costs. Lavis, F. (D ‘17)

 Railway nationalization and the average citizen. Moore, W: H: (Ja ‘18)

 Railway organization and management. Peabody, J. (Je ‘17)

 =Rainier, Mount=
   Meany, E. S., ed. Mount Rainier. (Jl ‘17)

 Rambles in old college towns. Hawthorne, H. (D ‘17)

 Random reflections of a grandmother. Sturgis, E. M. (D ‘17)

 Range of electric searchlight projectors. Rey, J. A. (D ‘17)

 Ranny, otherwise Randolph Harrington Dukes. Brubaker, H. (N ‘17)

 Rapid training of recruits. Campbell, M. V. (D ‘17)

 =Readers=
   Snow, W: L., ed. High school prize speaker. (Je ‘17)

 =Reading=
   Bassett, L. E. Handbook of oral reading. (Je ‘17)

 Readings in money and banking. Phillips, C. A. (Je ‘17)

 Readings in social problems. Wolfe, A. B., ed. (My ‘17)

 Readjuster movement in Virginia. Pearson, C: C. (Ja ‘18)

 Rebirth of Russia. Marcosson, I: F: (S ‘17)

 Rebuilding of Europe. Hill, D: J. (D ‘17)

 Reclaiming the arid West. James, G: W. (Ja ‘18)

 Recollections. Browne, J: H. B. (O ‘17)

 Recollections. Morley, J: M., viscount. (Ja ‘18)

 Recollections of a New York surgeon. Gerster, A. G. C: (F ‘18)

 Recollections of a Rebel reefer. Morgan, J. M. (Je ‘17)

 Reconstruction of Poland and the Near East. Gibbons, H. A. (O ‘17)

 Records of the life of Jesus. Sharman, H: B. (F ‘18)

 =Recreation=
   Perry, C. A. Community center activities. (My ‘17)

 Recreation and the church. Gates, H. W. (F ‘18)

 Red flower. Van Dyke, H: (Ja ‘18)

 Red Indian fairy book. Olcott, F. J. (D ‘17)

 Red Pepper’s patients. Richmond, G. L. (O ‘17)

 Red planet. Locke, W: J: (Ag ‘17)

 Red rugs of Tarsus. Gibbons, H. D. (Je ‘17)

 Red watch. Currie, J: A. (My ‘17)

 Re-education. Barton, G: E: (Ja ‘18)

 =Reference books=
   Kroeger, A. B. Guide to the study and use of reference books. (Ja
      ‘18)

 =Refrigeration and refrigerating machinery=
   Harding, L: A., and Willard, A. C. Mechanical equipment of buildings.
      (D ‘17)

 Regiment of women. Dane, C. (Mr ‘17)

 =Religion=
   Archer, W: God and Mr Wells. (O ‘17)
   Barrow, G: A. Validity of the religious experience. (Ja ‘18)
   Drown, E: S. Apostles’ creed to-day. (My ‘17)
   Hastings, J., and others, eds. Encyclopædia of religion and ethics,
      v. 9. (F ‘18)
   Henry, F. A: Jesus and the Christian religion. (My ‘17)
   Hodges, G: Religion in a world at war. (Ag ‘17)
   Holmes, J: H. Religion for to-day. (Mr ‘17)
   Jenkins, B. A. Man in the street and religion. (O ‘17)
   Jones, W: T. Spiritual ascent of man. (My ‘17)
   King, H: C. Fundamental questions. (Ap ‘17)
   Orchard, W: E. Outlook for religion. (Ja ‘18)
   Rice, W: N. Return to faith. (O ‘17)
   Wells, H. G: God, the invisible king. (Je ‘17)

 =Religions=
   Barton, G: A. Religions of the world. (N ‘17)
   Hartman, L: O. Popular aspects of oriental religions. (Jl ‘17)

 =Religious education=
   Federal council of the churches of Christ in America. Library of
      Christian cooperation, v. 6. (Je ‘17)
   Peabody, F. G. Religious education of an American citizen. (O ‘17)
   Sneath, E. H., and others. Religious training in the school and home.
      (D ‘17)
   Wilbur, M. A. Child’s religion. (Je ‘17)
   Wood, C. A. School and college credit for outside Bible study. (Je
      ‘17)

 Religious history of New England. Platner, J: W., and others. (S ‘17)

 Religious hours. Keary, C: F. (My ‘17)

 =Religious liberty=
   Klein, A. J. Intolerance in the reign of Elizabeth, queen of England.
      (S ‘17)
   Platner, J: W., and others. Religious history of New England. (S ‘17)

 =Religious poetry=
   Johnson, L. P. Religious poems. (Jl ‘17)

 Religious thought of the Greeks. Moore, C. H. (Je ‘17)

 Religious training in the school and home. Sneath, E. H., and others.
    (D ‘17)

 =Reminiscences=
   Blathwayt, R. Through life and around the world. (O ‘17)
   Browne, J: H. B. Recollections. (O ‘17)
   Carpenter, W: B. Further pages of my life. (Jl ‘17)
   Gerster, A. G. C: Recollections of a New York surgeon. (F ‘18)
   Gibbons, J. Retrospect of fifty years. (Ap ‘17)
   Hamilton, Lord G: F. Parliamentary reminiscences and reflections,
      1868 to 1885. (S ‘17)
   Hinkson, K. Middle years. (My ‘17)
   Kernahan, C. In good company. (Jl ‘17)
   MacFarlane, C: Reminiscences of a literary life. (N ‘17)
   Matthews, B. These many years. (N ‘17)
   Muspratt, E. K. My life and work. (Mr ‘17)
   O’Brien, P: O., baron. Reminiscences of the Right Hon. Lord O’Brien
      (of Kilfenora). (Je ‘17)
   Poore, I. M., lady. Admiral’s wife in the making, 1860-1903. (Je ‘17)
   Reid, Sir G: H. My reminiscences. (S ‘17)
   Shearme, J: Lively recollections. (S ‘17)
   Tagore, Sir R. My reminiscences. (Jl ‘17)
   Whitman, S. Things I remember. (Mr. ‘17)
   Wilson, Sir C: R. Chapters from my official life. (Je ‘17)
   Younghusband, Sir G: J: Soldier’s memories. (S ‘17)

 Renaissant Latin America. Beach, H. P. (Ap ‘17)

 Renascence tombs of Rome. Davies, G. S. (F ‘18)

 =Repairing=
   Collins, A. F: Handy home book. (Jl ‘17)

 Report upon the atrocities committed by the Austro-Hungarian army
    during the first invasion of Serbia. Reiss, R. A. (Jl ‘17)

 Representative American plays. Quinn, A. H. (My ‘17)

 =Reproduction=
   Cady, B. C. and V. M. Way life begins. (Jl ‘17)

 =Republican party=
   Orcutt, W: D. Burrows of Michigan and the Republican party. (F ‘18)

 Reserve officers’ handbook. Sutherland, S: J. (Ag ‘17)

 =Rest=
   Howard, W: L. How to rest. (N ‘17)

 Restoration of trade union conditions. Webb, S. (D ‘17)

 =Retail trade=
   Field, C. C. Retail buying. (N ‘17)
   Nystrom, P. H: Retail store management. (S ‘17)

 Retreat from Mons. (Ag ‘17)

 Retreat from Mons. Corbett-Smith, A. (O ‘17)

 Retrogression. Watson, Sir W: (Ap ‘17)

 Retrospect of fifty years. Gibbons, J. (Ap ‘17)

 Return to faith. Rice, W: N. (O ‘17)

 Reveries of a schoolmaster. Pearson, F. B. (My ‘17)

 Reversible Santa Claus. Nicholson, M. (Ja ‘18)

 Revolt in Arabia. Hurgronje, C. S. (Je ‘17)

 Revolutionary pilgrimage. Peixotto, E. C. (Ja ‘18)

 Rhymes of the rookies. Christian, W. E. (Ja ‘18)

 Rib of the man. Kennedy, C: R. (My ‘17)

 Riddles of Hamlet and the newest answers. Blackmore, S. A. (F ‘18)

 Ride through the Balkans. Conway, A. E. (Ja ‘18)

 =Rifle practice=
   Miller, W. H. Rifles and shotguns. (Jl ‘17)

 Right and duty. Kuenzli, F: A. (Ap ‘17)

 Rimrock Jones. Coolidge, D. (O ‘17)

 =Rings=
   Kunz, G: F: Rings for the finger. (Ap ‘17)

 Rise of David Levinsky. Cahan, A. (O ‘17)

 Rise of ecclesiastical control in Quebec. Riddell. W. A. (S ‘17)

 Rise of Ledgar Dunstan. Sheppard, A. T. (Ap ‘17)

 =Rita=, pseud. See Humphreys, E. M. J. (Jl ‘17)

 Road of ambition. Sterne, E. (Jl ‘17)

 Road to Castaly. Brown, A. (Ap ‘17)

 Road to understanding. Porter, E. H. (Ap ‘17)

 =Roads=
   American highway association. Good roads year-book, 1917. (O ‘17)

 Robert Shenstone. Dawson, W: J. (O ‘17)

 =Rodin, Auguste=, 1840-1917
   Cladel, J. Rodin: the man and his art. (Ja ‘18)

 =Roman Catholic church=
   Quin, M. Problem of human peace. (Ja ‘18)
   =Liturgy and ritual=
     Walsh, J: Mass and vestments of the Catholic church. (Je ‘17)

 =Roman Catholic church and science=
   Windle, Sir B. C. A. Church and science. (N ‘17)

 Romance of escapes. Hopkins, T. (N ‘17)

 Romance of King Arthur and his knights of the Round table. Malory, Sir
    T: (F ‘18)

 Romance of labor. Twombly, F. D., and Dana, J: C., comps. (Ap ‘17)

 Romance of old Japan. Champney, E. and F. (Ja ‘18)

 Romance of the Romanoffs. McCabe, J. (Ja ‘18)

 =Rome=
   =Constitutional history=
     Taylor, H. Cicero, a sketch of his life and works. (Jl ‘17)

 =Rome (city)=
   Davies, G. S. Renascence tombs of Rome. (F ‘18)

 Rookie rhymes. (N ‘17)

 =Roscoe, Sir Henry Enfield=, 1833-1915
   Thorpe, Sir T: E: Right Honourable Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe. (Ap ‘17)

 =Roses=
   Thomas, G: C. Practical book of outdoor rose growing for the home
      garden. (S ‘17)

 =Royal houses=
   George, H. B. Genealogical tables illustrative of modern history. (Je
      ‘17)

 Royal outlaw. Hudson, C: B: (O ‘17)

 Royal Scottish academy, 1826-1916. Rinder, F., comp. (N ‘17)

 Rubbish heap. Humphreys, E. M. J. (Jl ‘17)

 =Ruck, Berta=, See Onions, B. R.

 Ruhleben prison camp. Cohen, 1: (Jl ‘17)

 Rule-making authority in the English supreme court. Rosenbaum, S: (N
    ‘17)

 Rulers of the lakes. Altsheler, J. A. (D ‘17)

 =Rumania=
   Van Teslaar, J. S. When I was a boy in Roumania. (Jl ‘17)

 Running free. Connolly, J. B. (N ‘17)

 =Rural schools=
   Kirkpatrick, M. G. Rural school from within. (S ‘17)
   Woofter, T: J. Teaching in rural schools. (Ja ‘18)

 =Russia=
   Duff, J. D., ed. Russian realities and problems. (Jl ‘17)
   Novikova, O. A. Russian memories. (Jl ‘17)
   Souiny-Seydlitz, L. I. P., baroness. Russia of yesterday and
      to-morrow. (Ag ‘17)
   Walling, W: E. Russia’s message. (My ‘17)
   Wright, R. L. Russians. (Je ‘17)
   =Biography=
     Howe, S. E. Some Russian heroes, saints and sinners. (Je ‘17)
   =Commerce=
     Petersson, C. E. W. How to do business with Russia. (D ‘17)
   =Court and courtiers=
     Russian court memoirs, 1914-16. (S ‘17)
   =Description and travel=
     Coxwell, C: F. Through Russia in war-time. (O ‘17)
     De Windt, H. Russia as I know it. (Ja ‘18)
     Graham, S. Russia in 1916. (Mr ‘17)
     Ruhl, A. B. White nights and other Russian impressions. (Jl ‘17)
   =Economic conditions=
     Bubnoff, I. V. Co-operative movement in Russia. (O ‘17)
   =History=
     Alexinsky, G. Russia and Europe. (Mr ‘17)
     Howe, S. E., ed. False Dmitri. (Ap ‘17)
     Kornilov, A. Modern Russian history. (My ‘17)
     McCabe, J. Romance of the Romanoffs. (Ja ‘18)
     _Revolution, 1917_
       Dorr, R. Inside the Russian revolution. (F ‘18)
       Fall of the Romanoffs. (F ‘18)
       Levine, I: D. Russian revolution. (Jl ‘17)
       Marcosson, I: F: Rebirth of Russia. (S ‘17)
       Olgin, M. J. Soul of the Russian revolution. (Ja ‘18)
       Preev, Z. N. Russian revolution and Who’s who in Russia. (Ag ‘17)
   =Industries and resources=
     Petersson, C. E. W. How to do business with Russia. (D ‘17)
   =Politics and government=
     Vinogradov, P. G. Self government in Russia. (Ag ‘17)
   =Social conditions=
     Gorky, M., pseud., and others, eds. Shield. (Jl ‘17)
     Reeves, F. B. Russia then and now. (Jl ‘17)
   =Social life and customs=
     Aksakov, S. T. Russian gentleman. (Jl ‘17)
     Aksakov, S. T. Russian schoolboy. (F ‘18)
     Dufferin and Ava, H. G., Marchioness of. My Russian and Turkish
        journals. (My ‘17)

 Russia in 1916. Graham, S. (Mr ‘17)

 Russian advance. Washburn, S. (Mr ‘17)

 Russian anthology in English. Bechhofer, C. E., ed. (O ‘17)

 Russian gentleman. Aksakov, S. T. (Jl ‘17)

 =Russian language=
   Jarintzov, N. Russians and their language. (My ‘17)
   =Dictionaries=
     Freese, J: H: New pocket dictionary of the English and Russian
        languages. (Jl ‘17)
   =Grammar=
     Forbes, N. Russian grammar. (Jl ‘17)
   =Readers=
     Forbes, N., ed. Third Russian book. (N ‘17)

 =Russian literature=
   =Collections=
     Bechhofer, C. E., ed. Russian anthology in English. (O ‘17)

 =Russian music.= See Music

 =Russian novels and stories.= See Fiction—Russian novels and stories

 =Russian poetry=
   Jarintzov, N. Russian poets and poems. (D ‘17)
   Livesay, F. R., tr. Songs of Ukraina. (Ap ‘17)
   Nekrassov, N. A. Who can be happy and free in Russia? (Jl ‘17)

 Russian revolution. Levine, I: D. (Jl ‘17)

 Russian revolution and Who’s who in Russia. Preev, Z. N. (Ag ‘17)

 Russian schoolboy. Aksakov, S. T. (F ‘18)

 =Russian songs=
   Schindler, K., ed. Songs of the Russian people. (Je ‘17)

 Russian year-book, 1916. (Je ‘17)

 Russians. Wright, R. L. (Je ‘17)

 Russia’s message. Walling, W: E. (My ‘17)

 =Russo-Japanese war=, 1904-1905
   Smidovich, V. V. In the war. (Je ‘17)

 Rustler of Wind River. Ogden, G: W. (Jl ‘17)


 Sacrifice. Tagore, Sir R. (F ‘18)

 Safety curtain. Dell, E. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Saga plays. Betts, F. (O ‘17)

 =Sailing=
   Miller, W. H. Boy’s book of canoeing and sailing. (My ‘17)

 =St Louis, Missouri=
   =Social conditions=
     Mangold, G: B: Challenge of St Louis. (D ‘17)

 St Nicholas. McKnight, G: H. (F ‘18)

 St Paul, the hero. Jones, R. M. (O ‘17)

 Sainte Séductre. (O ‘17)

 =Salem, Massachusetts=
   Northend, M. H. Memories of old Salem. (F ‘18)

 =Salt Lake City=
   =Public schools=
     Cubberley, E. P., and others. School organization and
        administration. (My ‘17)

 Salt of the earth. Sidgwick, C. (O ‘17)

 Salute to adventurers. Buchan, J: (Ja ‘18)

 =Sanitary chemistry=
   Bailey, E. H: S. Text-book of sanitary and applied chemistry. (O ‘17)

 =Sanitation=
   Wood, H. B. Sanitation practically applied. (Jl ‘17)

 Sarah Ann. Thurston, M. N. (N ‘17)

 =Sardinia=
   Bouchier, E. S. Sardinia in ancient times. (Jl ‘17)

 =Sargent industrial school at Beacon, New York=
   Arnold, S. L. Story of the Sargent industrial school at Beacon, New
      York, 1891-1916. (Ja ‘18)

 Savage survivals. Moore, J: H. (Jl ‘17)

 =Saving=
   Atwood, A. W: How to get ahead. (Mr ‘17)
   Hall, B. Thrift. (My ‘17)

 =Savings banks=
   Robinson, E: L. 1816-1916; one hundred years of savings banking. (Ja
      ‘18)

 =Sawrey-Lowndes, Mrs Frederic.= See Lowndes, M. A.

 =Saws=
   Durham, H. W. Saws. (Ja ‘18)

 Scale of performance tests. Pintner, R., and Paterson, D. G. (D ‘17)

 Scandal. Hamilton, C. (N ‘17)

 =Scandinavian literature=
   Snorri Sturluson. Prose Edda. (S ‘17)

 =School administration and organization=
   Cubberley, E. P., and others. School organization and administration.
      (My ‘17)

 School and college credit for outside Bible study. Wood, C. A. (Je ‘17)

 =School attendance=
   Abbott, E., and Breckinridge, S. P. Truancy and non-attendance in the
      Chicago schools. (Je ‘17)

 School efficiency. Bennett, H: E. (N ‘17)

 =School grading and promotion=
   Chapman, J. C., and Rush, G. P. Scientific measurement of classroom
      products. (O ‘17)

 =School laws=
   Abbott, E., and Breckinridge, S. P. Truancy and non-attendance in the
      Chicago schools. (Je ‘17)

 =School management=
   Bennett, H: E. School efficiency. (N ‘17)

 =School nurses=
   Struthers, L. School nurse. (D ‘17)

 Schoolgirl allies. Samson, R. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Schoolmaster of a great city. Patri, A. (Jl ‘17)

 =Schools=
   Sargent, P. E: Handbook of American private schools. (O ‘17)

 =Schools as social centers=
   Perry, C. A. Community center activities. (My ‘17)

 =Science=
   Barber, F: D., and others. First course in general science. (Jl ‘17)
   Buchanan, J: Y. Comptes rendus of observation and reasoning. (Jl ‘17)
   Fabre, J. H. C. Story-book of science. (D ‘17)
   Fall, D. Science for beginners. (Ja ‘18)
   Gregory, R: A. Discovery. (Ap ‘17)
   Sedgwick, W: T., and Tyler, H. W. Short history of science. (F ‘18)
   Seward, A. C: Science and the nation. (O ‘17)
   Wigmore, J: H:, ed. Science and learning in France. (O ‘17)
   =History=
     Libby, W. Introduction to the history of science. (Je ‘17)
   =Philosophy, theories, etc.=
     Henderson, L. J. Order of nature. (S ‘17)

 =Scientific management=
   Thompson, C. B. Theory and practice of scientific management. (D ‘17)

 Scientific measurement of classroom products. Chapman, J. C., and Rush,
    G. P. (O ‘17)

 =Scientific recreations=
   Collins, A. F: Magic of science. (D ‘17)

 =Scotland=
   =Description and travel=
     Clark, K. Spell of Scotland. (My ‘17)

 =Sculpture=
   Schevill, F. Karl Bitter. (S ‘17)

 Sea moods. Reed, E: B. (Ja ‘18)

 Sea plunder. Stacpoole, H: De V. (Je ‘17)

 Sea warfare. Kipling, R. (Mr ‘17)

 =Seamanship.= See Navigation

 =Searchlights=
   Rey, J. A. Range of electric searchlight projectors. (D ‘17)

 Seasonal industry. Van Kleeck, M. (D ‘17)

 Seat weaving. Perry, L. D. (Ag ‘17)

 Second base Sloan. Mathewson, C. (Jl ‘17)

 Second book of operas. Krehbiel, H: E: (Mr ‘17)

 Second fiddle. Bottome, P. (N ‘17)

 Second odd number. Maupassant, G. H. R. A. de. (N ‘17)

 Second thoughts of an economist. Smart, W: (Je ‘17)

 Second wind. Tilden, F. (N ‘17)

 Second youth. Updegraff, A. (Je ‘17)

 Secret bread. Jesse, F. T. (O ‘17)

 Secret of typewriting speed. Owen, M. B. (Ja ‘18)

 =Secret service=
   Goltz, H. von der. My adventures as a German secret agent. (D ‘17)
   =Germany=
     Jones, J: P. America entangled. (N ‘17)

 Secret witness. Gibbs, G: F. (N ‘17)

 Secrets of polar travel. Peary, R. E. (D ‘17)

 Secrets of the submarine. Hay, M. F. (N ‘17)

 Security. Brown, I. (Ap ‘17)

 Seen and heard, before and after 1914. Findlater, M. and J. H. (Jl ‘17)

 Selected articles on capital punishment. Fanning, C. E., comp. (Ap ‘17)

 Selected articles on immigration. Reely, M. K., comp. (Mr ‘17)

 Selected articles on military training in schools and colleges. Van
    Valkenburgh, A., comp. (Mr ‘17)

 Selected articles on minimum wage. Reely, M. K., comp. (Mr ‘17)

 Selected articles on national defense. Van Valkenburgh, A., comp. (Ap
    ‘17)

 Selected articles on prohibition of the liquor traffic. Beman, L. T.,
    comp. (Ap ‘17)

 Selected articles on single tax. Bullock, E. D., comp. (Ja ‘18)

 Selected articles on the income tax. Phelps, E. M., comp. (Ja ‘18)

 Selections from his “Historie of the world,” his letters, etc. Raleigh,
    Sir W. (O ‘17)

 Selections from the correspondence of the first Lord Acton. Acton, J:
    E. E: D. A., 1st baron. (F ‘18)

 Self government in Russia. Vinogradov, P. G. (Ag ‘17)

 Self-surveys by colleges and universities. Allen, W: H. (Ja ‘18)

 Self-surveys by teacher-training schools. Allen, W: H., and Pearse, C.
    G. (Ja ‘18)

 Selling your services. Sales service company. (F ‘18)

 Sense of sight. Spindler, F. N. (F ‘18)

 Sense of taste. Hollingworth, H. L., and Poffenberger, A. T. (D ‘17)

 Sense of the past. James, H: (Ja ‘18)

 Sentiment. O’Sullivan, V. (N ‘17)

 =Serbia=
   Reed, H. L. Serbia. (Je ‘17)
   =History=
     Temperley, H. W: V. History of Serbia. (S ‘17)

 =Sermons and addresses=
   Alington, C. A. Shrewsbury fables. (Jl ‘17)
   Figgis, J: N. Some defects in English religion. (S ‘17)
   Frothingham, P. R. Confusion of tongues. (O ‘17)
   Newton, J. F. Ambassador. (Je ‘17)

 =Servants=
   Domestic service. (O ‘17)

 Seth Way. Owen, C. D. (Ja ‘18)

 Seven years at the Prussian court. Keen, E. (Mr ‘17)

 Seven years in Vienna. (S ‘17)

 Seventh Christmas. Dawson, C. (N ‘17)

 =Sewing=
   Kinne, H., and Cooley, A. M. Clothing and health. (Je ‘17)
   Swanson, M. Needlecraft in the school. (Jl ‘17)

 =Sex hygiene=
   Gerrish, F: H: Sex-hygiene. (O ‘17)

 =Sex instruction=
   Cady, L. B. and V. M. Way life begins. (Jl ‘17)
   Willson, R. N. Education of the young in sex hygiene. (Je ‘17)

 =Sexual diseases=
   Morris, Sir M. A: Nation’s health. (Jl ‘17)
   Scholtz, M. Sex problems of man in health and disease. (N ‘17)

 =Sexual ethics=
   Gulick, L. H. Dynamic of manhood. (Ja ‘18)

 Shadow line. Conrad, J. (My ‘17)

 Shadows. Richards, H. G. (My ‘17)

 =Shakespeare, William=, 1564-1616
   Blackmore, S. A. Riddles of Hamlet and the newest answers. (F ‘18)
   Gayley, C: M. Shakespeare and the founders of liberty in America. (F
      ‘18)
   =About Shakespeare=
     Ditchfield, P: H. England of Shakespeare. (Jl ‘17)
     Geikie, Sir A. Birds of Shakespeare. (Je ‘17)
     Quiller-Couch, Sir. A. T: Notes on Shakespeare’s workmanship. (S
        ‘17)
   =Stage history=
     Adams, J. Q. Shakespearean playhouses. (Ja ‘18)

 Shakespearean playhouses. Adams, J. Q. (Ja ‘18)

 =Shanghai, China=
   Gamewell, M. N. Gateway to China. (Ap ‘17)

 =Shchedrin=, pseud. See Saltykov, M. E.

 Sheaf of bluebells. Orczy, E. (D ‘17)

 Shell shock and its lessons. Smith, G. E., and Pear, T. H. (O ‘17)

 =Shelley, Percy Bysshe=, 1792-1822
   Dowden, E:, and others. Letters about Shelley. (N ‘17)
   Ingpen, R. Shelley in England. (Ap ‘17)

 Shelleys of Georgia. Houghton, B. Y. (N ‘17)

 Shells as evidence of the migrations of early culture. Jackson, J. W.
    (D ‘17)

 Shield. Gorky, M., pseud., and others, eds. (Jl ‘17)

 =Shoe Industry=
   Plucknett, F. Introduction to the theory and practice of boot and
      shoe manufacture. (Je ‘17)

 Shoestrings. Foster, M. (Je ‘17)

 =Shooting=
   Miller, W. H. Rifles and shotguns. (Jl ‘17)

 Short history of Australia. Scott, E. (Jl ‘17)

 Short history of England. Chesterton, G. K. (D ‘17)

 Short history of Ireland. Maxwell, C. (Jl ‘17)

 Short history of science. Sedgwick, W: T., and Tyler, H. W. (F ‘18)

 Short history of the English people. Green, J: R: (Ap ‘17)

 Short rations. Doty, M. Z. (Mr ‘17)

 Short sixes. See Bunner, H: C. Stories. (Mr ‘17)

 =Short stories=
   =Bibliography=
     O’Brien, E: J. H., ed. Best short stories of 1916 and the Yearbook
        of the American short story. (Mr ‘17)

 =Short story=
   Baker, H. T. Contemporary short story. (Ap ‘17)
   Williams, B. C. Handbook on story writing. (Ja ‘18)

 Should students study? Foster, W: T. (Ap ‘17)

 Shrewsbury fables. Alington, C. A. (Jl ‘17)

 =Siberia=
   Shklovskii, I. V. In far north-east Siberia. (Ap ‘17)

 Si-Fan mysteries. Eng title of Hand of Fu-Manchu. (S ‘17)

 =Sight=
   Spindler, F. N. Sense of sight. (F ‘18)

 =Signals and signaling=
   Giddings, H. A., comp. Handbook of military signaling. (F ‘18)

 =Signs=
   Endell, F. A. G. Old tavern signs. (Ap ‘17)

 Silverheels. Jackson, G. E. (D ‘17)

 =Silverware=
   Bigelow, F. H. Historic silver of the colonies and its makers. (D
      ‘17)

 =Simple, Peter=, pseud. See Herford, O.

 Sin that was his. Packard, F. L. (F ‘18)

 Sinbad the sailor. MacKaye, P. W. (S ‘17)

 =Sinclair, Bertha Muzzy.= See Bower, B. M., pseud.

 =Singing=
   Miller, F. E. Vocal art-science and its application. (N ‘17)

 Singing weaver. Seebach, J. F. and M. R. (D ‘17)

 =Single tax=
   Bullock, E. D., comp. Selected articles on single tax. (Ja ‘18)
   Fillebrown, C: B. Principles of natural taxation. (Je ‘17)
   Miller, J. D., ed. Single tax year book. (Ja ‘18)

 Sinn Fein rebellion as I saw it. Norway, M. L. (Jl ‘17)

 Six lectures on architecture. Cram, R. A., and others. (Mr ‘17)

 Six major prophets. Slosson, E. E. (My ‘17)

 Six months on the Italian front. Price, J. M. (N ‘17)

 Sixteen months in four German prisons. Mahoney, H: C: (S ‘17)

 Sixty years of American life. Wheeler, E. P. (Je ‘17)

 Skinner’s baby. Dodge, H: I. (N ‘17)

 =Skriabin, Aleksandr Nikolaevich=, 1872-
   Hull, A. E. Great Russian tone-poet, Scriabin. (F ‘18)

 Slavery of prostitution. Miner, M. E. (Je ‘17)

 =Slessor, Mary Mitchell=, 1848-1915
   Livingstone, W: P. Mary Slessor of Calabar. (Ap ‘17)
   Livingstone, W: P. Story of Mary Slessor for young people. (D ‘17)

 Slippy McGee. Oemler, M. C. (Je ‘17)

 Smiths in war time. Bell, J: K. (D ‘17)

 =Smoking=
   Fisher, G: J:, and Berry, E. Physical effects of smoking. (N ‘17)

 =Smuts, Jan Christiaan=, 1870-
   Levi, N. Jan Smuts. (Jl ‘17)

 Snare. Sabatini, R. (N ‘17)

 =Snedeker, Mrs Charles H.= See Owen, C. D.

 =Soap=
   Simmons, W: H. Soap. (F ‘18)

 Social and international ideals. Bosanquet, B. (O ‘17)

 =Social conditions=
   Chapin, F. S. Historical introduction to social economy. (D ‘17)

 =Social ethics=
   Bennion, M. Citizenship. (Ja ‘18)

 Social history of the American family from colonial times to the
    present. Calhoun, A. W. (D ‘17)

 Social insurance. Woodbury, R. M. (N ‘17)

 =Social problems=
   Chesterton, G. K. Utopia of usurers. (D ‘17)
   Coit, S. Is civilization a disease? (Jl ‘17)
   Durant, W: J. Philosophy and the social problem. (D ‘17)
   Ellis, H. Essays in war-time. (Mr ‘17)
   Laughlin, J. L. Latter-day problems. (Mr ‘17)
   Moore, H. H. Youth and the nation. (N ‘17)
   Roosevelt, T. Foes of our own household. (O ‘17)
   Russell, B. A. W: Why men fight. (Mr ‘17)
   Sizer, J. P. Commercialization of leisure. (Ja ‘18)
   Ward, H. F: Labor movement from the standpoint of religious values.
      (N ‘17)
   Wolfe, A. B., ed. Readings in social problems. (My ‘17)

 Social problems in Porto Rico. Fleagle, F. K. (D ‘17)

 =Social psychology=
   Davies, G: R. Social environment. (My ‘17)
   Ellwood, C: A. Introduction to social psychology. (Je ‘17)

 Social study of the Russian German. Williams, H. P. (Jl ‘17)

 =Social surveys=
   Aronovici, C. Social survey. (Je ‘17)
   Elmer, M. C. Technique of social surveys. (Ja ‘18)

 Social teachings of the Jewish prophets. Bizzell, W: B. (Je ‘17)

 Social teachings of the prophets and Jesus. Kent, C: F. (Jl ‘17)

 =Social work=
   Richmond, M. A. Social diagnosis. (Jl ‘17)

 =Socialism=
   Hutchinson, R. H. “Socialism” of New Zealand. (My ‘17)
   Walling, W: E., and Laidler, H. W., eds. State socialism pro and con.
      (Ag ‘17)

 =Sociology=
   Bogardus, E. S. Introduction to sociology. (Ja ‘18)
   Davies, G: R. Social environment. (My ‘17)
   Fairchild, H: P. Outline of applied sociology. (F ‘18)
   Kelsey, C. Physical basis of society. (F ‘18)
   Kent, C: F. Social teachings of the prophets and Jesus. (Jl ‘17)
   Maciver, R. M. Community. (S ‘17)
   Smith, W. R. Introduction to educational sociology. (S ‘17)
   Vogt, P. L. Introduction to rural sociology. (O ‘17)

 =Sociology, Christian=
   Scudder, V. D. Church and the hour. (Jl ‘17)

 Le soldat américain en France. Coleman. A., and La Meslée, A. M. (N
    ‘17)

 Soldier of France to his mother. (O ‘17)

 Soldier of life. De Sélincourt, H. (Mr ‘17)

 Soldier songs. MacGill, P. (Jl ‘17)

 Soldier’s memories. Younghusband, Sir G: J: (S ‘17)

 Soldiers’ spoken French. Cross, H. (Ag ‘17)

 Some defects in English religion. Figgis, J: N. (S ‘17)

 Some historical reflections on war, past and present. Bryce, J. B.,
    viscount. (Ag ‘17)

 Some imagist poets, 1917. (Je ‘17)

 Some legal phases of corporate financing, reorganization and
    regulation. Stetson, J. F. L., and others. (S ‘17)

 Some minor poems of the middle ages. Segar, M. G., comp. (Jl ‘17)

 Some modern Belgian writers. Turquet-Milnes, G. (N ‘17)

 Some modern methods of ventilation. Grierson, R. (S ‘17)

 Some Russian heroes, saints and sinners. Howe, S. E. (Je ‘17)

 Some views respecting a future life. Waddington, S: (O ‘17)

 Someone and somebody. Browne, P. E. (N ‘17)

 =Somme, Battle of the=, 1916
   Buchan, J: Battle of the Somme. (Jl ‘17)
   Gibbs, P. Battles of the Somme. (Mr ‘17)
   Masefield, J: Old front line. (F ‘18)
   Robinson, H. P. Turning point. (N ‘17)
   Thomas, W. B. With the British on the Somme. (Ag ‘17)

 Son of the city. Seely, H. G. (D ‘17)

 Son of the middle border. Garland, H. (O ‘17)

 Song of the sirens. Litchfield, G. D. (S ‘17)

 Songs for a little house. Morley, C. D. (Ja ‘18)

 Songs of a miner. Welsh, J. C. (O ‘17)

 Songs of courage. Beckley, Z., and Gollomb, J., comps. (O ‘17)

 Songs of peace. Ledwidge, F. (N ‘17)

 Songs of the Russian people. Schindler, K., ed. (Je ‘17)

 Songs of the stalwart. Rice, G. (F ‘18)

 Songs of Ukraina. Livesay, F. R., tr. (Ap ‘17)

 Songs out of school. Bashford, H: H. (My ‘17)

 Sonia. McKenna, S. (S ‘17)

 Sons of Eli. Paine, R. D. (F ‘18)

 Sorry tale. Worth, P. (S ‘17)

 Soul of a bishop. Wells, H. G: (O ‘17)

 Soul of the Russian revolution. Olgin, M. J. (Ja ‘18)

 Soul of Ulster. Hamilton, Lord E. W: (S ‘17)

 Souls in khaki. Copping, A. E. (S ‘17)

 =South=
   Cram, M. Old seaport towns of the South. (D ‘17)

 =South Africa=
   =History=
     Levi, N. Jan Smuts. (Jl ‘17)

 =South America=
   Stuntz, H. C. South American neighbors. (My ‘17)
   Veatch, A. C. Quito to Bogotá. (D ‘17)
   =Description and travel=
     Cappeau, I. M. Voyage to South America and Buenos Aires. (Je ‘17)
     Franck, H. A. Vagabonding down the Andes. (N ‘17)
     Hudson, W: H: Idle days in Patagonia. (Mr ‘17)
     Koebel, W. H. Paraguay. (My ‘17)
     Mathews, G. S. Treasure. (Ap ‘17)
   =History=
     Koebel, W: H: British exploits in South America. (O ‘17)
     Supple, E: W., ed. Spanish reader of South American history. (N
        ‘17)
     Zahm, J: A. Quest of El Dorado. (Ja ‘18)

 Southern life in southern literature. Fulton, M. G., ed. (Je ‘17)

 =Southey, Robert=, 1774-1843
   Haller, W: Early life of Robert Southey, 1774-1803. (F ‘18)

 =Spain=
   =Colonies=
     Priestley, H. I. José de Gálvez, visitor-general of New Spain
        (1765-1771). (Jl ‘17)

 =Spalding, Franklin Spencer=, 1865-1914
   Melish, J: H. Franklin Spencer Spalding. (Jl ‘17)

 Spanish-American life. Morse, E: L. C. (Jl ‘17)

 Spanish architecture of the sixteenth century. Byne, A., and Stapley,
    M. (S ‘17)

 Spanish chest. Brown, E. A. (D ‘17)

 =Spanish drama=
   Clark, B. H., ed. Masterpieces of modern Spanish drama. (Jl ‘17)

 =Spanish language=
   =Readers=
     Morse, E: L. C. Spanish-American life. (Jl ‘17)
     Supple, E: W., ed. Spanish reader of South American history. (N
        ‘17)

 =Speakers=
   Shurter, E. D., ed. Winning declamations and how to speak them. (F
      ‘18)
   Snow, W: L., ed. High school prize speaker. (Je ‘17)

 “Speaking of Prussians—” Cobb, I. S. (Jl ‘17)

 Speeches. Gladstone, W: E. (S ‘17)

 Spell of Scotland. Clark, K. (My ‘17)

 Spell of the Hawaiian Islands and the Philippines. Anderson, I. (Ap
    ‘17)

 =Spencer, Herbert=, 1820-1903
   Elliot, H. S: R. Herbert Spencer. (Ap ‘17)

 =Spies=
   Jones, J: P. America entangled. (N ‘17)

 Spires of Oxford. Letts, W. M. (O ‘17)

 Spirit of the new thought. Dresser, H. W., ed. (Ja ‘18)

 Spiritual ascent of man. Jones, W: T. (My ‘17)

 Spiritual interpretation of history. Mathews, S. (Je ‘17)

 =Spiritual life=
   Montague, M. P. Twenty minutes of reality. (Jl ‘17)
   Ruysbroeck, J. van. Adornment of the spiritual marriage. (Jl ‘17)
   Whiting, L. Adventure beautiful. (Ja ‘18)

 Spontaneous activity in education. Montessori, M. (D ‘17)

 Sport of kings. Roche, A. S. (D ‘17)

 Spring song. Reid, F. (Mr ‘17)

 Standard cyclopedia of horticulture. Bailey, L. H. (O ‘17)

 Standard method of testing juvenile mentality by the Binet-Simon scale.
    Melville, N. J: (Jl ‘17)

 Standard table of electrochemical equivalents and their derivatives.
    Hering, C., and Getman, F: H. (Ja ‘18)

 Standards. Brownell, W: C. (Je ‘17)

 Standards in English. Mahoney, J: J. (Ja ‘18)

 Standards of American legislation. Freund, E. (D ‘17)

 =Stanton, Arthur Henry=, 1839-1913
   Russell, G: W: E. Arthur Henry Stanton. (O ‘17)

 Starr, of the desert. Bower, B. M., pseud. (Ap ‘17)

 Stars in their courses. Sharp, H. M. (Je ‘17)

 =State, The=
   Spencer, H. Man versus the state. (Ap ‘17)

 State and government. Young, J. S. (N ‘17)

 State as manufacturer and trader. Madsen, A. W. (Ap ‘17)

 State constitution-making. McClure, W. M. (Jl ‘17)

 =State governments=
   Mathews, J: M. Principles of American state administration. (My ‘17)

 State policy in Irish education. Corcoran, T., comp. (O ‘17)

 State sanitation. Whipple, G: C. (D ‘17)

 State socialism pro and con. Walling, W: E., and Laidler, H. W., eds.
    (Ag ‘17)

 Statistical methods applied to education. Rugg, H. O. (Ja ‘18)

 =Steam turbines=
   Goudie, W: J: Steam turbines. (N ‘17)

 Stingy receiver. Abbott, E. H. (Mr ‘17)

 Stokes’ wonder book of fairy tales. Quinn, E. V., ed. (D ‘17)

 Stone ornaments used by Indians in the United States and Canada.
    Moorehead, W. K. (N ‘17)

 =Storage batteries=
   Pagé, V: W. Storage batteries simplified. (Jl ‘17)

 Stories. Bunner, H: C. (Mr ‘17)

 Stories for the history hour. Niemeyer, N. (D ‘17)

 Stories of Russian folk-life. Mackenzie, D. A. (Ap ‘17)

 Story-book of science. Fabre, J. H. C. (D ‘17)

 Story of Bible translations. Margolis, M. L. (N ‘17)

 Story of Cooperstown. Birdsall, R. (O ‘17)

 Story of corn and the westward migration. Brooks, E. C. (Je ‘17)

 Story of Montana. Fogarty, K. H. (Ap ‘17)

 Story of Princeton. Norris, E. M. (D ‘17)

 Story of sugar. Bassett, S. W. (Ja ‘18)

 Story of the automobile. Barber, H. L. (D ‘17)

 Story of the Highland regiments. Watson, F: (Ag ‘17)

 Story of the Pullman car. Husband, J. (Jl ‘17)

 Story of the Sargent industrial school at Beacon, New York, 1891-1916.
    Arnold, S. L. (Ja ‘18)

 Story of Ypres. Pollard, H. B. C. (F ‘18)

 =Story telling=
   Cragin, L. E. Sunday story hour. (D ‘17)
   Esenwein, J. B., and Stockard, M. Children’s stories. (D ‘17)

 Straight road. (Je ‘17)

 Stranded in Arcady. Lynde, F. (Jl ‘17)

 Strange stories of the great valley. Grosvenor, J. (Je ‘17)

 =Strauss, Richard=, 1864-
   Finck, H: T. Richard Strauss. (D ‘17)

 Street of ink. Simonis, H. (S ‘17)

 Street of the blank wall. Jerome, J. K. (Mr ‘17)

 =Structures, Theory of=
   McCullough, E. Practical structural design. (F ‘18)

 =Stuart, Eleanor=, pseud. See Porter, E. H.

 Student in arms. Hankey. D. W: A. (Mr ‘17)

 Student in arms: second series. Hankey, D. W: A. (Ag ‘17)

 Studies in Dante. Moore, E: (S ‘17)

 Studies in democracy. Gulliver, J. H. (My ‘17)

 Studies in insect life. Shipley, A. E. (N ‘17)

 Studies in the problem of sovereignty. Laski, H. J. (S ‘17)

 Study and criticism of Italian art. Berenson, B. (Jl ‘17)

 Study and enjoyment of pictures. Brigham, G. R. (Je ‘17)

 Study in Christology. Relton, H. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Study of English and American writers. Clark, J: S. (Je ‘17)

 Sturdy oak. Merwin, S:, and others. (D ‘17)

 Sube Cane. Partridge, E: B. (N ‘17)

 =Submarine boats=
   Collins, A. F: and V. D. Boys’ book of submarines. (F ‘18)
   Hay, M. F. Secrets of the submarine. (N ‘17)

 Substance of Gothic. Cram, R. A. (N ‘17)

 Suburban sage. See Bunner, H: C. Stories.

 Succeeding with what you have. Schwab, C: M. (Ap ‘17)

 =Success=
   Conwell, R. H. What you can do with your will power. (Je ‘17)
   Fowler, N. C., jr. Grasping opportunity. (N ‘17)
   Maxwell, W: M. If I were twenty-one. (D ‘17)
   Schwab, C: M. Succeeding with what you have. (Ap ‘17)

 Success. Cunninghame Graham, R. B. (F ‘18)

 Success in the suburbs. McMahon, J: R. (Jl ‘17)

 Successful canning and preserving. Powell, O. (O ‘17)

 Sudden Jim. Kelland, C. B. (Mr ‘17)

 =Sugar=
   Bassett, S. W. Story of sugar. (Ja ‘18)

 Sum of feminine achievement. Dorland, W: A. N. (F ‘18)

 Summer. Wharton, E. N. (Ag ‘17)

 Sunday story hour. Cragin, L. E. (D ‘17)

 Sunny slopes. Hueston, E. (O ‘17)

 =Supernatural=
   Scarborough, D. Supernatural in modern English fiction. (D ‘17)

 Supplementary magic. Elbiquet, pseud. (Jl ‘17)

 Surnames. Weekley, E. (Je ‘17)

 Survival of Jesus. Skrine, J: H. (D ‘17)

 Susan Lenox. Phillips, D: G. (Mr ‘17)

 Suum cuique. Sonneck, O. G: T. (S ‘17)

 =Sweden=
   =History=
     Gade, J: A. Charles the twelfth, king of Sweden. (Ag ‘17)

 Sweeps of ninety-eight. See Masefield, J: Locked chest. (Ap ‘17)

 =Sweet peas=
   Taubenhaus, J. J. Culture and diseases of the sweet pea. (N ‘17)

 =Swinburne, Algernon Charles=, 1837-1909
   Gosse, E. W: Life of Algernon Charles Swinburne. (Je ‘17)
   Swinburne, A. C: Algernon Charles Swinburne. (Jl ‘17)

 =Switzerland=
   =Army=
     Kuenzli, F: A. Right and duty. (Ap ‘17)
   =History=
     De Koven, A. Counts of Gruyère. (Ap ‘17)

 Sylvander and Clarinda. Burns, R. (D ‘17)

 =Synonyms=
   Crabb, G: English synonymes. (Je ‘17)

 System of financial administration of Great Britain. Willoughby. W: F.,
    and others. (O ‘17)


 =Tagore, Rabindranath (Ravindranatha Thakura)=, 1861-
   Sastri, K. S. R. Sir Rabindranath Tagore. (Ap ‘17)
   Tagore, Sir R. My reminiscences. (Jl ‘17)

 Tales of the Persian genii. Olcott, F. J. (Ja ‘18)

 Tales of the revolution. Artsybashev, M. P. (S ‘17)

 Talks on talking. Kleiser, G. (Je ‘17)

 =Tammany Hall=
   Myers, G. History of Tammany Hall. (D ‘17)

 =Tariff=
   =France=
     Girault, A. Colonial tariff policy of France. (Jl ‘17)

 =Taste=
   Hollingworth, H. L., and Poffenberger, A. T. Sense of taste. (D ‘17)

 =Taxation=
   Scheftel, Y. Taxation of land value. (F ‘18)
   Withers, H. Our money and the state. (N ‘17)

 =Teaching=
   Betts, G: H. Class-room method and management. (N ‘17)
   Horne, H. H. Teacher as artist. (Jl ‘17)
   Maxwell, C: R. Observation of teaching. (F ‘18)
   Patri, A. Schoolmaster of a great city. (Jl ‘17)
   Pearson, F. B. Vitalized school. (O ‘17)
   Strayer, G: D., and Norsworthy, N. How to teach. (S ‘17)
   Woodley, O. I. and M. V. Profession of teaching. (Ja ‘18)
   Woofter, T: J. Teaching in rural schools. (Ja ‘18)

 Teaching of government. American political science association. (Je
    ‘17)

 Technic of versification. Odling, W: (Jl ‘17)

 =Technical education=
   Smith, H. B. Establishing industrial schools. (Jl ‘17)

 Technique of social surveys. Elmer, M. C. (Ja ‘18)

 =Telegraphy, Wireless.= See Wireless telegraphy

 =Telephone=
   Mavor, J. Government telephones. (Jl ‘17)
   Shepardson, G: D. Telephone apparatus. (Je ‘17)

 =Telephony, Wireless.= See Wireless telephony

 Temperamental Henry. Merwin, S: (N ‘17)

 Temporary heroes. Sommers, C. (F ‘18)

 Tendencies in modern American poetry. Lowell, A. (D ‘17)

 =Tennessee. Constitution=
   McClure, W. M. State constitution-making. (Jl ‘17)

 =Tennyson. Alfred Tennyson, 1st baron=, 1809-1892
   Alden, R. M. Alfred Tennyson. (N ‘17)

 Terror. Machen, A. (D ‘17)

 =Teternikov, Fedor Kuzmich.= See Sologub, F., pseud.

 =Teutonic race=
   Leslie, S. Celt and the world. (Ap ‘17)

 Textbook of botany for colleges. Ganong, W: F. (Je ‘17)

 Textbook of naval aeronautics. Woodhouse, H: (Ag ‘17)

 Text-book of sanitary and applied chemistry. Bailey, E. H: S. (O ‘17)

 Text book of war nursing. Thurstan, V. (F ‘18)

 Text book on motor car engineering, v. 2. Clark, A. G. (Ja ‘18)

 =Textile industry and fabrics=
   Fales, J. Dressmaking. (My ‘17)

 =Theater=
   Adams, J. Q. Shakespearean playhouses. (Ja ‘18)
   Bakshy, A. Path of the modern Russian stage. (Je ‘17)
   Burleigh, L. Community theatre in theory and practice. (D ‘17)
   Cheney, S. Art theatre. (D ‘17)
   Daly, J. F. Life of Augustin Daly. (D ‘17)
   Dickinson, T: H. Insurgent theatre. (D ‘17)
   Fiske, M. M. Mrs Fiske. (D ‘17)
   Hamilton, C. Problems of the playwright. (D ‘17)
   Mackay, C. D. Little theatre in the United States. (D ‘17)
   Nathan, G: J. Mr George Jean Nathan presents. (Ja ‘18)
   Smith, J: T. Parish theatre. (D ‘17)

 =Theaters=
   Waugh, F. A. Outdoor theaters. (Ja ‘18)

 =Theology=
   Forsyth, P: T. Justification of God. (Jl ‘17)
   Rauschenbusch, W. Theology for the social gospel. (F ‘18)
   =Study and teaching=
     Smith, G. B., ed. Guide to the study of the Christian religion. (Je
        ‘17)

 Theophanies. Underhill, E. (Ap ‘17)

 Theory and calculation of electric circuits. Steinmetz, C: P. (D ‘17)

 Theory and history of banking. Dunbar, C: F. (F ‘18)

 Theory and practice of scientific management. Thompson, C. B. (D ‘17)

 Theory of evolution. Scott, W: B. (Jl ‘17)

 There’s pippins and cheese to come. Brooks, C: S. (Ja ‘18)

 These many years. Matthews, B. (N ‘17)

 These times. Untermeyer, L: (Je ‘17)

 =Thibault, Jacques Anatole.= See France, A., pseud.

 Things I remember. Whitman, S. (Mr ‘17)

 Third Russian book. Forbes, N., ed. (N ‘17)

 Thirty cent bread. McCann, A. W. (Ag ‘17)

 This country of ours. Marshall, H. E. (F ‘18)

 This is the end. Benson, S. (Jl ‘17)

 =Thompson, Francis=, 1859?-1907
   Fisher, B: F. Francis Thompson. (D ‘17)

 =Thomson, James (B. V., pseud.)= 1834-1882
   Meeker, J. E: Life and poetry of James Thomson. (Ja ‘18)

 =Thoreau, Henry David=, 1817-1862
   Emerson, E: W. Henry Thoreau. (O ‘17)
   Sanborn, F. B: Life of Henry David Thoreau. (Jl ‘17)

 Thorgils. Hewlett, M. H: (Mr ‘17)

 Thoroughbred. Webster, H: K. (Mr ‘17)

 Those Fitzenbergers. Martin, H. R. (Ap ‘17)

 Those times and these. Cobb, I. S. (Ag ‘17)

 =Thought and thinking=
   Kleiser, G. How to build mental power. (F ‘18)

 Thoughts on religion at the front. Talbot, N. S. (N ‘17)

 Three black Pennys. Hergesheimer, J. (D ‘17)

 Three centuries of American poetry and prose. Newcomer, A. G., and
    others, eds. (Ja ‘18)

 Three peace congresses of the nineteenth century. Hazen, C: D., and
    others. (Je ‘17)

 Three short plays. Barker, G. (F ‘18)

 Three short plays. Watts, M. S. (Mr ‘17)

 Three Welsh plays. Marks, J. A: (Ap ‘17)

 Thrice through the dark continent. Du Plessis, J. (Ja ‘18)

 Thrift. Hall, B. (My ‘17)

 Thrilling deeds of British airmen. Wood, E. (O ‘17)

 Through life and around the world. Blathwayt, R. (O ‘17)

 Through Russia in war-time. Coxwell, C: F. (O ‘17)

 Through the iron bars. Cammaerts, E. (O ‘17)

 Through the year with Thoreau. Thoreau, H: D: (N ‘17)

 Tiger’s coat. Dejeans, E. (Mr ‘17)

 Till the clock stops. Bell, J: J. (Ap ‘17)

 To Mexico with Scott. Smith, E. K. (Ja ‘18)

 To mother. McCracken, E., ed. (O ‘17)

 To the last penny. Lefevre, E. (My ‘17)

 To the nations. Richard, P: (My ‘17)

 To Verdun from the Somme. Brittain, H. E. (My ‘17)

 =Tobacco manufacture and trade=
   Madsen, A. W. State as manufacturer and trader. (Ap ‘17)

 Tokens of the eighteenth century connected with book sellers and
    bookmakers. Longman, W. (Jl ‘17)

 Told in the huts. (Ag ‘17)

 =Tolstoi, Leo Nikolaievich, count=, 1828-1910
   Tolstoi, L. N., count. Diaries; v 1; Youth. (F ‘18)
   Tolstoi, L. N., count. Journal. (N ‘17)

 =Tombs=
   Davies, G. S. Renascence tombs of Rome. (F ‘18)
   Mace, A. C., and Winlock, H. E. Tomb of Senebtisi at Lisht. (D ‘17)

 To-morrow morning. Delano, E. (N ‘17)

 Top-floor idyl. Van Schaick, G: G. (N ‘17)

 Top of the continent. Yard, R. S. (D ‘17)

 Topaz story book. Skinner, A. M. and E. L., comps. (Ja ‘18)

 Topography and strategy in the war. Johnson, D. W. (F ‘18)

 Torch-bearers of Bohemia. Kryshanovskaya, V. I. (My ‘17)

 =Torpedoes=
   Miessner, B: F. Radiodynamics. (Je ‘17)

 Tortoise. Benson, E: F: (N ‘17)

 Touring afoot. Fordyce, C. P. (S ‘17)

 Towards a sane feminism. Meikle, W. (N ‘17)

 Towards the goal. Ward, M. A. (S ‘17)

 Town labourer, 1760-1832. Hammond, J. L. L. and B. (O ‘17)

 Town planning for small communities. Bird, C: S., jr. (Je ‘17)

 =Townesend, Mrs Stephen.= See Burnett, F.

 =Toxic jaundice=
   Legge, T: M., and others. Origin, symptoms, pathology, treatment and
      prophylaxis of toxic jaundice. (N ‘17)

 =Tractors=
   Currie, B. W. Tractor and its influence upon the agricultural
      implement industry. (Je ‘17)

 Trade politics and Christianity in Africa and the East. Macdonald, A.
    J: M. (Jl ‘17)

 =Trade unions=
   Academy of political science. Labor disputes and public service
      corporations. (Jl ‘17)
   Hoxie, R. F. Trade unionism in the United States. (D ‘17)
   Webb, S. Restoration of trade union conditions. (D ‘17)

 Tragedy of a throne. Ebenthal, H. (O ‘17)

 Trails sunward. Rice, C. Y. (Je ‘17)

 Training for a life insurance agent. Horner, W. M. (S ‘17)

 Training for the trenches. Vickers, L. (Ag ‘17)

 Training of men for the world’s future. Thwing, C: F. (N ‘17)

 Training the children. Hughes, J. L. (N ‘17)

 Translations of foreign novels. Grimm, M. E., comp. (D ‘17)

 =Travelers’ aid societies=
   Baker, O. C. Travelers’ aid society in America. (N ‘17)

 =Travels=
   Anderson, I. Odd corners. (Ja ‘18)
   Childs, W. J. Across Asia Minor on foot. (My ‘17)
   Franck, H. A. Vagabonding down the Andes. (N ‘17)
   Safroni-Middleton, A. Vagabond’s Odyssey. (My ‘17)
   Shklovskii, I. V. In far north-east Siberia. (Ap ‘17)
   Ware, M. S. Old world through old eyes. (O ‘17)

 Treasure. Mathews, G. S. (Ap ‘17)

 Treasure and trouble therewith. Bonner, G. (N ‘17)

 Treasure of the land. Harris, G. (O ‘17)

 Treasure train. Reeve, A. B: (D ‘17)

 Treasury of fairy tales. Chaplin, A. (Ja ‘18)

 Treasury of war poetry. Clarke, G: H., ed. (N ‘17)

 Treatment of Armenians in the Ottoman empire, 1915-1916. Bryce, J. B.,
    viscount. (Jl ‘17)

 =Trees=
   Dixon, R. and Fitch, F. E. Human side of trees. (My ‘17)
   Rogers, J. E. Trees worth knowing. (Je ‘17)

 Treloars. Fisher, M. (N ‘17)

 =Trench warfare=
   Elliott, F. H. Trench fighting. (Ja ‘18)
   Moss, J. A. Trench warfare. (N ‘17)
   Smith, J. S. Trench warfare. (Ag ‘17)
   Solano, E. J:, ed. Field entrenchments. (Ja ‘18)

 Tricks of the trade. Squire J. C. (S ‘17)

 Triflers. Bartlett, F: O. (My ‘17)

 Trip to Lotus Land. Bell, A. (Ja ‘18)

 =Triple alliance=
   Coolidge, A. C. Origins of the Triple alliance. (O ‘17)

 Tristan and Iseult. Symons, A. (F ‘18)

 Triumph. Harben, W. N. (O ‘17)

 Trivia. Smith, L. P. (D ‘17)

 Tropical agriculture. Wilcox, E. V. (Je ‘17)

 =Trout fishing=
   Smith, O. W. Trout lore. (My ‘17)

 Truancy and non-attendance in the Chicago schools. Abbott, E., and
    Breckinridge, S. P. (Je ‘17)

 Trust problem. Jenks, J. W. (F ‘18)

 =Trusts, Industrial=
   Jenks, J. W. Trust problem. (F ‘18)
   Montague, G. H. Business competition and the law. (My ‘17)
   Stetson, J. F. L., and others. Some legal phases of corporate
      finance, reorganization and regulation. (S ‘17)
   Stevens, W: H. S. Unfair competition. (S ‘17)

 Tube milling. Del Mar, A. (Ja ‘18)

 =Tuberculosis=
   Cobbett, L: Causes of tuberculosis. (O ‘17)
   King, D. M. Battle with tuberculosis and how to win it. (N ‘17)

 =Turkey=
   Abbott, G: F: Turkey, Greece and the great powers. (My ‘17)
   =Description and travel=
     Ussher, C. D., and Knapp, G. H. American physician in Turkey. (F
        ‘18)
   =History=
     Eversley, G: J: S., 1st baron. Turkish empire. (Ja ‘18)
     Pears, Sir E. Life of Abdul Hamid. (Ja ‘18)
   =Social life and customs=
     Dufferin and Ava, H. G., Marchioness of. My Russian and Turkish
        journals. (My ‘17)

 Turkey and the war. Jabotinsky, V. (O ‘17)

 Turkish empire. Eversley, G: J: S., 1st baron. (Ja ‘18)

 Turn about Eleanor. Kelley, E. M. (Ja ‘18)

 Turn to the right. Musson, B. (Ja ‘18)

 Turning point. Robinson, H. P. (N ‘17)

 =Twain, Mark=, pseud. See Clemens, S: L.

 Twenty-five great houses of France. Cook, Sir T. A. (Ap ‘17)

 Twenty-four. Fitch, G: (Mr ‘17)

 Twenty minutes of reality. Montague, M. P. (Jl ‘17)

 Twenty years at court. Stanley, E. J. (O ‘17)

 Twice American. Ingram, E. M. (D ‘17)

 Twilight of the souls. Couperus, L: M. A. (N ‘17)

 =Twins=
   Newman, H. H. Biology of twins (mammals). (Ja ‘18)

 Two plays, and a rhapsody. Howard, K. (Je ‘17)

 Two twilights. Beers, H: A. (N ‘17)

 =Tynan, Katharine.= See Hinkson, K.

 =Typewriting=
   Owen, M. B. Secret of typewriting speed. (Ja ‘18)

 Typography of advertisements that pay. Farrar, G. P. (N ‘17)


 =Ulster, Ireland=
   Hamilton, Lord E. W: Soul of Ulster. (S ‘17)

 Ultimate democracy and its making. Sims, N. L. (N ‘17)

 Unbroken line. Allen, H. W. (Je ‘17)

 Uncensored diary. Bullitt, E. D. (My ‘17)

 Unconquered. Diver, K. H. M. (D ‘17)

 Under boy scout colors. Ames, J. B. (D ‘17)

 Under fire. Barbusse, H. (O ‘17)

 Understood Betsy. Fisher, D. F. (O ‘17)

 Undertow. Norris, K. (Ap ‘17)

 Unfair competition. Stevens, W: H. S. (S ‘17)

 Unicorns. Huneker, J. G. (O ‘17)

 Unified accounting methods for industrials. Woods, C. E. (Jl ‘17)

 =United States. Military academy, West Point, N.Y.=
   Richardson, R. C. West Point. (N ‘17)

 =United States. Naval academy, Annapolis=
   Earle, R. Life at the U.S. naval academy. (Je ‘17)

 =United States=
   =Army=
     Complete U.S. infantry guide. (N ‘17)
     Ellis, O. O., and Garey, E. B. Plattsburg manual. (My ‘17)
     Falls, D. C. Army and navy information. (Ja ‘18)
     Gallishaw, J:, and Lynch, W: Man in the ranks. (N ‘17)
     Hersey, H. Do’s and don’ts in the army. (Ja ‘18)
     Kilner, W. G., and MacElroy, A. J. Cantonment manual. (F ‘18)
     Mason, C: F. Complete handbook for the sanitary troops of the U.S.
        army and navy, and national guard and naval militia. (N ‘17)
     Robbins, E: J., comp. Universal drill manual. (Ag ‘17)
     Root, E. Military and colonial policy of the United States. (Je
        ‘17)
     Sutherland, S: J. Reserve officers’ handbook. (Ag ‘17)
     Wright, H. S. Our United States army. (Jl ‘17)
   =Defenses=
     Bullard, A. Mobilising America. (My ‘17)
     Howe, L. Universal military training and service. (Je ‘17)
     Kuenzli, F: A. Right and duty. (Ap ‘17)
     Marcosson, I: F: Leonard Wood, prophet of preparedness. (Je ‘17)
     Van Valkenburgh, A., comp. Selected articles on national defense.
        (Ap ‘17)
     Wise, J. C. Call of the Republic. (Jl ‘17)
   =Description and travel=
     Eaton, W. P. Green trails and upland pastures. (D ‘17)
     Holtz, M. E., and Bemis, K. I. Glacier national park. (Jl ‘17)
     Steele, D: M. Going abroad overland. (Mr ‘17)
     Street, J. L. American adventures. (D ‘17)
   =Economic conditions=
     Davis, J. S. Essays in the earlier history of American
        corporations. (S ‘17)
     Howe, F: C. High cost of living. (Ja ‘18)
     Noxon, F. W. Are we capable of self-government? (N ‘17)
     Steinmetz, C: P. America and the new world epoch. (F ‘18)
   =Foreign population=
     Abbott, G. Immigrant and the community. (Je ‘17)
     Williams, H. P. Social study of the Russian German. (Jl ‘17)
   =Foreign relations=
     Beer, G: L: English-speaking peoples. (O ‘17)
     Bigelow, J: Breaches of Anglo-American treaties. (My ‘17)
     Federal council of the churches of Christ in America. Library of
        Christian cooperation, v. 4. (Je ‘17)
     Johnson, W. F. America’s foreign relations. (Ag ‘17)
     McCormick, F: Menace of Japan. (Ap ‘17)
     Powers, H. H. America among the nations. (F ‘18)
     Robinson, E. E., and West, V: J. Foreign policy of Woodrow Wilson,
        1913-1917. (F ‘18)
     Weyl, W. E: American world policies. (Ap ‘17)
     _Germany_
       Rogers, L. America’s case against Germany. (O ‘17)
       Wilson, W. Why we are at war. (Je ‘17)
     _Japan_
       Flowers, M. Japanese conquest of American opinion. (Mr ‘17)
       Treat, P. J. Early diplomatic relations between the United States
          and Japan. (F ‘18)
   =History=
     Blaisdell, A. F., and Ball, F. K. American history for little
        folks. (D ‘17)
     Channing, E: History of the United States. (S ‘17)
     Dickson, H. Unpopular history of the United States. (Ja ‘18)
     Marshall, H. E. This country of ours. (F ‘18)
     _Colonial period_
       Alvord, C. W. Mississippi valley in British politics. (My ‘17)
       Severance, F. H. Old frontier of France. (Jl ‘17)
     _Revolution_
       Altschul, C: American revolution in our school text-books. (N
          ‘17)
       Clay, O. Heroes of the American revolution. (Ap ‘17)
       Peixotto, E. C. Revolutionary pilgrimage. (Ja ‘18)
     _War with Mexico, 1845-1848_
       McClellan, G: B. Mexican war diary. (Jl ‘17)
       Smith, E. K. To Mexico with Scott. (Ja ‘18)
     _Civil war_
       Johnson, R. Fight for the Republic. (My ‘17)
       Morgan, J. M. Recollections of a Rebel reefer. (Je ‘17)
       Mosby, J: S. Memoirs. (D ‘17)
       Rhodes, J. F. History of the Civil war, 1861-1865. (Ja ‘18)
     _1865-_
       Oberholtzer, E. P. History of the United States since the Civil
          war. (Ja ‘18)
   =Industries and resources=
     Clark, V: S. History of manufactures in the United States,
        1607-1860. (Ap ‘17)
     Tryon, R. M. Household manufactures in the United States,
        1640-1860. (S ‘17)
   =Intellectual life=
     Foerster, N., and Pierson, W: W., eds. American ideals. (D ‘17)
   =Militia=
     Batchelder, R. Watching and waiting on the border. (Jl ‘17)
     Root, E. Military and colonial policy of the United States. (Je
        ‘17)
   =Navy=
     Clark, C: E. My fifty years in the navy. (D ‘17)
     Falls, D. C. Army and navy information. (Ja ‘18)
     Jackson, O. P., and Evans, F. E. Marvel book of American ships. (F
        ‘18)
     Muller, R. E. United States navy. (Ag ‘17)
     Stirling, Y. Fundamentals of naval service. (Je ‘17)
   =Politics and government=
     Ashley, R. L: New civics. (N ‘17)
     Bryan, W: J. Heart to heart appeals. (S ‘17)
     Harris, H. W. President Wilson. (Ag ‘17)
     Holcombe, A. N. State government in the United States. (F ‘18)
     Lodge, H: C. War addresses, 1915-1917. (Jl ‘17)
     Noxon, F. W. Are we capable of self-government? (N ‘17)
     Reed, T: H. Form and functions of American government. (Ap ‘17)
     Tufts, J. H. Our democracy. (F ‘18)

     Wheeler, E. P. Sixty years of American life. (Je ‘17)
     Wilson, W. Why we are at war. (Je ‘17)
   =Reclamation service=
     James, G: W. Reclaiming the arid West. (Ja ‘18)
   =Social conditions=
     Bancroft, H. H. In these latter days. (Ja ‘18)
     Laughlin, J. L. Latter-day problems. (Mr ‘17)
     Mills, W. T: Democracy or despotism. (Jl ‘17)
     Vogt, P. L. Introduction to rural sociology. (O ‘17)
     Wolfe, A. B., ed. Readings in social problems. (My ‘17)
   =Social life and customs=
     Calhoun, A. W. Social history of the American family from colonial
        times to the present. (D ‘17)
     Creevey, C. A. Daughter of the Puritans. (My ‘17)

 United States post office. Roper, D. C. (D ‘17)

 Universal drill manual. Robbins, E: J., comp. (Ag ‘17)

 Universal military training and service. Howe, L. (Je ‘17)

 Universal training for citizenship and public service. Allen, W: H. (F
    ‘18)

 University debaters’ annual. Phelps, E. M., ed. (N ‘17)

 Unpopular history of the United States. Dickson, H. (Ja ‘18)

 Unpublished notes and reprinted papers. Street, G: E. (Je ‘17)

 Unseen hand in English history. Colvin, I. D. (O ‘17)

 Unseen host. Wilde, P. (O ‘17)

 Unwelcome man. Frank, W. D: (Mr ‘17)

 Up the hill and over. Mackay, I. E. (Je ‘17)

 Upbringing of daughters. Whetham, C. D. (D ‘17)

 Upsidonia. Marshall, A. (Mr ‘17)

 Utopia of usurers. Chesterton, G. K. (D ‘17)

 =Utopias=
   Andreä, J. V. Christianopolis. (My ‘17)


 Vade-mecum for the use of officers and interpreters in the present
    campaign. Plumon, E. (N ‘17)

 Vagabonding down the Andes. Franck, H. A. (N ‘17)

 Vagabond’s Odyssey. Safroni-Middleton, A. (My ‘17)

 Validity of the religious experience. Barrow, G: A. (Ja ‘18)

 Valley of decision. Burroughs, E: A. (Ap ‘17)

 =Valuation=
   Grunsky, C. E. and C. E., jr. Valuation, depreciation and the
      rate-base. (My ‘17)

 Value of money. Anderson, B: M. (Ja ‘18)

 Value of the classics. West, A. F., ed. (F ‘18)

 Vanguards of the plains. McCarter, M. (D ‘17)

 Vanished halls and cathedrals of France. Edwards, G: W. (Ja ‘18)

 =Varnish and varnishing=
   Sabin, A. H. Industrial and artistic technology of paint and varnish.
      (Je ‘17)

 =Vegetable gardening=
   Croy, M. S. 1000 hints on vegetable gardening. (Ja ‘18)
   Gilbert, A. W., and others. Potato. (Jl ‘17)
   Rockwell, F: F. Around the year in the garden. (Ja ‘18)

 Venetian painting in America. Berenson, B. (My ‘17)

 =Ventilation=
   Grierson, R. Some modern methods of ventilation. (S ‘17)

 Venture boys afloat. Garis, H. R. (D ‘17)

 =Veresáev, Vikenty=, pseud. See Smidovich, V. V.

 =Versification=
   Odling, W: Technic of versification. (Jl ‘17)

 Vesprie Towers. Watts-Dunton, W. T. (Ap ‘17)

 =Viaud, Louis Marie Julien.= See Loti, P., pseud.

 Victorious faith. Dresser, H. W. (D ‘17)

 Village gods of South India. Whitehead, H: (Ap ‘17)

 Village pest. Rollins, M. (Ja ‘18)

 Village shield. Gaines, R. L., and Read, G. W. (O ‘17)

 =Villon, François=, b. 1431
   Stacpoole, H: D. François Villon. (Ap ‘17)

 =Virgin Islands of the United States=
   Westergaard, W. C. Danish West Indies. (O ‘17)

 =Virginia=
   =History=
     Pearson, C: C. Readjuster movement in Virginia. (Ja ‘18)
   =Social life and customs=
     Nadal, E. S. Virginian village. (Ap ‘17)
     Stanard, M. M. P. Colonial Virginia. (Ja ‘18)

 Virginia of Elk Creek valley. Chase, M. E. (N ‘17)

 Virginian village. Nadal, E. S. (Ap ‘17)

 Vision splendid. Oxenham, J: (S ‘17)

 Visions. Tolstoi, I. (My ‘17)

 Vitalized school. Pearson, F. B. (O ‘17)

 =Vocational guidance=
   Merton, H. W. How to choose the right vocation. (N ‘17)

 =Voice=
   Miller, F. E. Vocal art-science and its application. (N ‘17)

 =Volcanoes=
   Westervelt, W: D. Hawaiian legends of volcanoes. (Ap ‘17)

 Volunteer Poilu. Sheahan, H: (Ap ‘17)

 Voyage to South America and Buenos Aires. Cappeau, I. M. (Je ‘17)

 =Voyages around the world=
   Alexander, P. F: Earliest voyages round the world, 1519-1617. (F ‘18)
   Fletcher, A. C: B. From job to job around the world. (N ‘17)

 Voyages on the Yukon and its tributaries. Stuck, H. (F ‘18)


 Wage earning and education. Lutz, R. R. (My ‘17)

 =Wages=
   Brassey, T: B., 1st earl. Work and wages. (Ap ‘17)
   Kleene, G. A. Profit and wages. (My ‘17)
   Reely, M. K., comp. Selected articles on minimum wage. (Mr ‘17)

 Wages of honor. Brown, K. H. (N ‘17)

 =Wagner, Richard i.e. Wilhelm Richard=, 1813-1883
   Ebenthal, H. Tragedy of a throne. (O ‘17)

 =Walking=
   Fordyce, C. P. Touring afoot. (S ‘17)

 Wanderer on a thousand hills. Wherry, E. (Je ‘17)

 Wanderers. Johnston, M. (N ‘17)

 Wander-ships. Bassett, W. (F ‘18)

 =War=
   Bodart, G., and Kellogg, V. L. Losses of life in modern wars. (Ap
      ‘17)
   Bryce, J. B., viscount. Some historical reflections on war, past and
      present. (Ag ‘17)
   Collin, C. C. War against war, and the enforcement of peace. (Ag ‘17)
   Ellis, H. Essays in war-time. (Mr ‘17)
   Russell, B. A. W: Why men fight. (Mr ‘17)

 War. Loti, P., pseud. (Jl ‘17)

 War addresses, 1915-1917. Lodge, H: C. (Jl ‘17)

 War after the war. Marcosson, I: F: (Je ‘17)

 War against war, and the enforcement of peace. Collin, C. C. (Ag ‘17)

 War and the Bagdad railway. Jastrow, M. (F ‘18)

 War and the spirit of youth. (D ‘17)

 War flames. Underwood, J: C. (Jl ‘17)

 War flying. Theta, pseud. (Ag ‘17)

 War food. Handy, A. L. (Ag ‘17)

 War French. Willcox, C. De W. (N ‘17)

 War inventions and how they were invented. Gibson, C: R. (Jl ‘17)

 War, Madame, The. Géraldy, P. (My ‘17)

 War of democracy. Bryce, J. B., viscount, and others. (Mr ‘17)

 War of positions. Azan, P. J. L: (D ‘17)

 War phases according to Maria. Lane, A. E. (Mr ‘17)

 War poems. “X.,” pseud. (My ‘17)

 Ward, Arthur Sarsfield. See Rohmer, S., pseud.

 =Ward, Mary Augusta (Arnold) (Mrs Humphry Ward)= 1851-
   Gwynne, S. L. Mrs Humphry Ward. (D ‘17)

 War’s dark frame. Camp, C: W. (Ag ‘17)

 War-shock. Eder, M. D: (Ag ‘17)

 War-time speeches. Smuts, J. C. (Ja ‘18)

 Watching and waiting on the border. Batchelder, R. (Jl ‘17)

 Watchman. Montgomery, L. M. (Jl ‘17)

 =Water purification=
   Ellms, J. W. Water purification. (O ‘17)

 =Water supply=
   Mason, W: P. Water-supply. (Ap ‘17)

 Wave. Blackwood, A. (Mr ‘17)

 Way life begins. Cady, L. B. and V. M. (Jl ‘17)

 Way of the air. Middleton, E. C. (F ‘18)

 Way of the wind. Frothingham, E. B. (Mr ‘17)

 Way of the winepress. Riley, W. (N ‘17)

 Way to study birds. Kuser, J: D. (Jl ‘17)

 Wayfarers at the Angel’s. Bassett, S. W. (D ‘17)

 Ways of Jane. Leonard, M. F. (Je ‘17)

 Ways of war. Kettle, T: M. (F ‘18)

 Wayside flowers of summer. Keeler, H. L. (Je ‘17)

 We can’t have everything. Hughes, R. (O ‘17)

 =Wealth=
   Ryan, J: A. Distributive justice. (Ap ‘17)

 Webster—man’s man. Kyne, P: B. (N ‘17)

 Weights and measures. Adams, F. P. (Ja ‘18)

 =Welding=
   Dunham, M. K. Automobile welding with the oxy-acetylene flame. (Je
      ‘17)

 =Welfare work in industry=
   Proud, E. D. Welfare work. (Ap ‘17)

 Well of English and the bucket. Johnson, B. (Ja ‘18)

 West African folk-tales. Barker, W. H., and Sinclair, C., eds. (N ‘17)

 =West Indies=
   Verrill, A. H. Book of the West Indies. (F ‘18)

 West Point. Richardson, R. C. (N ‘17)

 =Whaling=
   Murdoch, W. G. B. Modern whaling and bear hunting. (Ja ‘18)

 =Wharves=
   Greene, C. Wharves and piers. (O ‘17)

 What a company officer should know. McArthur, J: C. (D ‘17)

 What he least expected. Porter, H. E. (Ap ‘17)

 What is English? Ward, C: H. (Ja ‘18)

 What is man? Clemens, S: L. (Jl ‘17)

 What is psychoanalysis? Coriat, I. H: (S ‘17)

 What you can do with your will power. Conwell, R. H. (Je ‘17)

 =Wheat=
   Millar, A. Wheat and its products. (Je ‘17)

 When Daddy was a boy. Parry, T: W. (D ‘17)

 When I was a boy in Roumania. Van Teslaar, J. S. (Jl ‘17)

 When I was a girl in Holland. De Groot, C. (D ‘17)

 When the sun stood still. Brady, C. T. (S ‘17)

 Where your treasure is. Day, H. F. (S ‘17)

 While shepherds watched. Maher, R: A. (D ‘17)

 =Whistler, James Abbott McNeill=, 1834-1903
   Duret, T. Whistler. (My ‘17)

 Whistling mother. Richmond, G. L. (O ‘17)

 White blanket. Browne, B. (Ja ‘18)

 White Christmas. Hare, W. B. (F ‘18)

 White fountains. O’Brien, E: J. H. (Ap ‘17)

 White ladies of Worcester. Barclay, F. L. (D ‘17)

 White nights and other Russian impressions. Ruhl, A. B. (Jl ‘17)

 White Otter. Gregor, E. R. (Je ‘17)

 White people. Burnett, F. (Mr ‘17)

 Who can be happy and free in Russia? Nekrassov, N. A. (Jl ‘17)

 Who’s who among the wild flowers and ferns. Beecroft, W. I., comp. (Je
    ‘17)

 Who’s who in Russia. See Preev, Z. N. Russian revolution.

 Why Italy entered into the great war. Carnovale, L. (N ‘17)

 Why men fight. Russell, B. A. W: (Mr ‘17)

 Why we are at war. Wilson, W. (Je ‘17)

 Wild flowers worth knowing. Doubleday, N. B.

 Wilderness honey. Pollock, F. L. (D ‘17)

 Wilderness rose. Cochran, E. O. (Je ‘17)

 Wildfire. Grey, Z. (Mr ‘17)

 =Wilkes, John=, 1725(?)-1797
   Bleackley, H. W: Life of John Wilkes. (O ‘17)

 =Will=
   Conwell, R. H. What you can do with your will power. (Je ‘17)

 Will to freedom. Figgis, J: N. (O ‘17)

 =William II, emperor of Germany=, 1859-
   Fox, E: L. Wilhelm Hohenzollern & co. (Ag ‘17)
   Hammer, S. C. William the Second. (N ‘17)

 William and Williamina. Sterrett, F. R. (N ‘17)

 William, by the grace of God. Bowen, M., pseud. (N ‘17)

 =Williams, Roger=, 1604?-1683?
   Hall, M. E. Roger Williams. (D ‘17)

 =Williams college=
   Spring, L. W. History of Williams college. (O ‘17)

 =Wilson, Woodrow=, 1856-
   Harris, H. W. President Wilson. (Ag ‘17)
   Herron, G: D. Woodrow Wilson and the world’s peace. (O ‘17)
   Robinson, E. E., and West, V: J. Foreign policy of Woodrow Wilson,
      1913-1917. (F ‘18)

 Wilt thou, Torchy. Ford, S. (Mr ‘17)

 Wind in the corn. Wyatt, E. F. (Ja ‘18)

 Winds of the world. Mundy, T. (F ‘18)

 Wings of the Cardinal. Crowell, B. (O ‘17)

 Winning declamations and how to speak them. Shurter, E. D., ed. (F ‘18)

 Winona of Camp Karonya. Widdemer, M. (Ja ‘18)

 =Wireless telegraphy=
   Towers, W. K. Masters of space. (Mr ‘17)

 =Wireless telephony=
   Towers, W. K. Masters of space. (Mr ‘17)

 Wiring for light and power. Croft, T. W. (Ag ‘17)

 =Wise, Isaac Mayer=, 1819-1900
   May, M. B: Isaac Mayer Wise. (Ap ‘17)

 Wishing-ring man. Widdemer, M. (N ‘17)

 =Wit and humor=
   Herford, O. Confessions of a caricaturist. (O ‘17)
   Wells, C. Baubles. (N ‘17)

 With a B.P. scout in Gallipoli. Priestmann, E. Y. (Jl ‘17)

 With cavalry in the great war. Coleman, F: A. (Ja ‘18)

 With gold and steel. Johns, C. S. (Ja ‘18)

 With our faces in the light. Palmer, F: (N ‘17)

 With our soldiers in France. Eddy, S. (F ‘18)

 With the British on the Somme. Thomas, W. B. (Ag ‘17)

 With the French flying corps. Winslow, C. D. (Je ‘17)

 With the Russian wounded. Alexinsky, T. (Mr ‘17)

 Wolf breed. Gregory, J. (D ‘17)

 Wolf-lure. Castle, A. and E. (D ‘17)

 =Woman=
   Dorland, W: A. N. Sum of feminine achievement. (F ‘18)
   =Biography=
     Gribble. F. H: Women in war. (O ‘17)
     Parkman, M. R. Heroines of service. (D ‘17)
   =Employment=
     Bennett, H. M. Women and work. (Je ‘17)
     Hewes, A. Women as munition makers. (N ‘17)

     Stone, G., ed. Women war workers. (S ‘17)
     Van Kleeck, M. Seasonal industry. (D ‘17)
   =Health and hygiene=
     Galbraith, A. M. Personal hygiene and physical training: for women.
        (Je ‘17)
     Stackpoole, F. Advice to women. (F ‘18)
   =Social and moral questions=
     Atherton, G. F. Living present. (Ag ‘17)
     Gallichan, C. G. Motherhood and the relationships of the sexes. (Jl
        ‘17)
     MacMurchy, M. Woman—bless her. (Ap ‘17)
     Meikle, W. Towards a sane feminism. (N ‘17)
     Thompson, V. Woman. (Ap ‘17)

 Woman as decoration. Burbank, E. (Ja ‘18)

 =Woman suffrage=
   Catt, C. C., comp. Woman suffrage by federal constitutional
      amendment. (Jl ‘17)
   Metcalfe, A. E. Woman’s effort. (N ‘17)
   Woman suffrage year book, 1917. (Jl ‘17)
   =Fiction=
     Shuler, M. For rent—one pedestal. (S ‘17)
   =Poetry=
     Miller, A. Women are people! (Mr ‘17)

 Woman’s effort. Metcalfe, A. E. (N ‘17)

 Women and work. Bennett, H. M. (Je ‘17)

 Women are people! Miller, A. (Mr ‘17)

 Women as munition makers. Hewes, A. (N ‘17)

 =Women in Canada=
   MacMurchy, M. Woman—bless her. (Ap ‘17)

 =Women in war=
   Gribble, F. H: Women in war. (O ‘17)

 Women of Belgium. Kellogg, C. (Je ‘17)

 Women war workers. Stone, G., ed. (S ‘17)

 =Women’s clubs=
   =Directories=
     Official register and directory of women’s clubs in America. (Ag
        ‘17)

 Wonder. Beresford, J: D. (Ap ‘17)

 Wonder of war in the air. Rolt-Wheeler, F. W: (F ‘18)

 =Wood, Leonard=, 1860-
   Marcosson, I: F: Leonard Wood, prophet of preparedness. (Je ‘17)

 Wood and water friends. Hawkes, C. (D ‘17)

 Wood-carver of Salem. Cousins, F., and Riley, P. M. (Ap ‘17)

 =Wood carving=
   Cousins, F., and Riley, P. M. Wood-carver of Salem. (Ap ‘17)

 =Wood finishing=
   Schmidt, W. K: Problems of the finishing room. (Jl ‘17)

 =Woodberry, George Edward=, 1855-
   Ledoux, L: V. George Edward Woodberry. (S ‘17)

 Woodcraft for women. Pinkerton, K. S. (S ‘17)

 Work and wages. Brassey, T: B., 1st earl. (Ap ‘17)

 =Workmen’s compensation=
   Rhodes, J. E: Workmen’s compensation. (N ‘17)

 Works manager to-day. Webb, S. (F ‘18)

 World and Thomas Kelly. Train, A. (F ‘18)

 World at war. Brandes, G. M. C. (Je ‘17)

 World in ferment. Butler, N. M. (S ‘17)

 World peril. (F ‘18)

 =World politics=
   Beer, G: L: English-speaking peoples. (O ‘17)
   Brailsford, H: N. League of nations. (My ‘17)
   Cosmos, pseud. Basis of durable peace. (Mr ‘17)
   Powers, H. H. America among the nations. (F ‘18)
   Weyl, W. E: American world politics. (Ap ‘17)

 World’s debate. Barry, W: (Ja ‘18)

 World’s wonder stories. Whyte, A. G. (D ‘17)

 Writing for the magazines. Esenwein, J. B. (Ap ‘17)


 =Yarmo Vedra=, pseud. See Merton, H. W.

 Year of Costa Rican natural history. Calvert, A. C. and P. P. (Jl ‘17)

 =Yearbooks (statistical, historical, etc)=
   Information annual, 1916. (Je ‘17)
   “Mechanical world” pocket diary and year book for 1917. (Je ‘17)
   National year book, 1917. (Jl ‘17)
   Russian year-book, 1916. (Je ‘17)
   Sargent, P. E: Handbook of American private schools. (O ‘17)
   Woman suffrage year book, 1917. (Jl ‘17)

 =Yeats, John Butler=, 1839-
   Yeats, J: B. Passages from the letters of John Butler Yeats. (N ‘17)

 Yeoman adventurer. Gough, G: W. (Je ‘17)

 Yosemite. Hazard, C. (Jl ‘17)

 You are the hope of the world! Hagedorn, H. (O ‘17)

 Young France and new America. Lanux, P. de. (F ‘18)

 Young idea. Morris, L. R., comp. (S ‘17)

 Young lion of Flanders. Kueller, J. van A. (Ja ‘18)

 Young Low. Dorsey, G: A. (S ‘17)

 =Young Men’s Christian Associations=
   Told in the huts. (Ag ‘17)

 Your national parks. Mills, E. A. (Jl ‘17)

 Your part in poverty. Lansbury, G: (Jl ‘17)

 Youth and the nation. Moore, H. H. (N ‘17)

 Youth Plupy. Shute, H: A: (O ‘17)

 =Ysaye, Lisa.= See Tarleau, L. Y.

 =Yukon river=
   Stuck, H. Voyages on the Yukon and its tributaries. (F ‘18)

 Yukon trail. Raine, W: M. (Jl ‘17)


 Zella sees herself. Delafield, E. M. (N ‘17)

 Zionism. Goodman, P., and Lewis, A. D., eds. (My ‘17)

 Zionism and the Jewish future. Sacher, H., ed. (Ap ‘17)




                        Directory of Publishers


 A. L. A. American Library Association, 78 E. Washington St., Chicago.

 Abingdon Press, 150 5th Av., N.Y.
   Imprint adopted by the Methodist Book Concern for books of general
      interest.

 Acad. of Political Science, Columbia Univ., 116th St. & Broadway, N.Y.

 Alexander Hamilton Institute, Astor Place, N.Y.

 Allen & Unwin, 40 Museum St., London, W.C.

 Am. Bankers’ Assn., 5 Nassau St., N.Y.

 Am. Bapt. American Baptist Pub. Society, 1701 Chestnut St.,
    Philadelphia; 16 Ashburton Pl., Boston; 125 N. Wabash Av., Chicago;
    514 N. Grand Av., St Louis.

 Am. Bk. American Book Co., 100 Washington Square, N.Y.; 330 E. 22d St.,
    Chicago.

 Am. Highway Assn., 708 Colorado Bldg., Washington, D.C.

 Am. Hist. Assn., 1140 Woodward Bldg., Washington, D.C.

 Am. Inst. of Architects, The Octagon, Washington, D.C.

 Am. Jewish Historical Soc., 38 Park Row, N.Y.

 Am.-Scandinavian Foundation. 25 W. 45th St., N.Y.

 Am. Social Hygiene Assn., Tilden Bldg., 105 W. 40th St., N.Y.

 Appleton. Daniel Appleton & Co., 29-35 W. 32d St., N.Y.; 533 S. Wabash
    Av., Chicago.
   American agents for Crosby Lockwood & Son, London.
   Selling agents for the University of Pennsylvania publications.

 Art Institute of Chicago, Michigan Av. foot of Adams St., Chicago.

 Assn. Press, 124 E. 28th St., N.Y.

 Atkinson, Mentzer & Co., 2210 S. Park Av., Chicago; 30 W. 36th St.,
    N.Y.
   Formerly Atkinson, Mentzer & Grover.

 Atlantic Monthly Co., 3 Park St., Dept. B., Boston.


 Badger, R: G. Richard G. Badger (The Gorham Press), 194-200 Boylston
    St., Boston.

 Baker. Baker & Taylor Co., 354 4th Av., at 26th St., N.Y.

 Bale & Danielsson. Bale Sons & Danielsson, 83-91 Great Titchfield St.,
    London, W.

 Banks. Banks Law Pub. Co., 23 Park Place, N.Y.

 Banta Pub. G: Banta Pub. Co., Menasha, Wis.

 Barnes. A. S. Barnes & Co., 381 4th Av., cor. 27th St., N.Y.
   Purchased the business of the United Educational Co., E. L. Kellogg &
      Co., and E. O. Vaile.

 Barrie. G: Barrie & Sons, 1313 Walnut St., Philadelphia.

 Barse & Hopkins, 28 W. 23d St., N.Y.

 Bell, A. G. & Co., 18 Bury St., London, W.C.

 Benziger. Benziger Bros., 36-38 Barclay St., N.Y.; 214 W. Monroe St.,
    Chicago.

 Blackie & Son, 50 Old Bailey, London, E.C.

 Blackwood & Sons, 37 Paternoster Row, London, E.C.

 Blakiston. P. Blakiston’s Son & Co., 1012 Walnut St., Philadelphia.

 Bloch. Bloch Pub. Co., 40 E. 14th St., N.Y.

 Bobbs. Bobbs-Merrill Co., University Square, Indianapolis, Ind.

 Boni & Liveright, 105 W. 40th St., N.Y.

 Boston Bk. Boston Book Co., 83-91 Francis St., Boston.

 Brentano’s, 5th Av. & 27th St., N.Y.

 Britton Pub. Co., 354 4th Av., N.Y.

 Butterfield. W. A. Butterfield, 59 Bromfield St., Boston.


 Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington, D.C.

 Cassell & Co., La Belle Sauvage, Ludgate Hill, London, E.C.

 Century. Century Co., 353 4th Av., N.Y.

 Chapman & Hall, 11 Henrietta St., Covent Garden, England, W.C.

 Chatto & Windus, 111 St Martin’s Lane, Charing Cross, London, W.C.

 Clarendon Press. See Milford.

 Clark, A. H. Arthur H. Clark Co., 209 Caxton Bldg., Cleveland, O.

 Cleveland Foundation. Survey Committee, Cleveland, O.

 Clode, E. J., 156 5th Av., N.Y.

 Columbia University Press, Lemcke & Buechner, agents, 30-32 W. 27th
    St., N.Y.

 Constable. Archibald Constable & Co., 10 Orange St., Leicester Sq.,
    London.

 Crist. Arthur H. Crist Co., Cooperstown, N.Y.
   Formerly Crist, Scott and Parshall.

 Crowell. T. Y. Crowell Co., 426-428 W. Broadway, N.Y.

 Cumulative Digest Corporation, 241 W. 37th St., N.Y.


 Davis. F. A. Davis Co., 1914-16 Cherry St., Philadelphia.

 De La Mare. A. T. De La Mare Ptg. & Pub. Co., 438-448 W. 37th St., N.Y.

 Denison, T. S. Denison & Co., 154 W. Randolph St., Chicago.

 Ditson. Oliver Ditson Co., 150 Tremont St., Boston.

 Dodd. Dodd, Mead & Co., 4th Av. & 30th St., N.Y.

 Doran. George H. Doran Co., 38 W. 32d St., N.Y.
   Purchased the business of A. C. Armstrong & Son.

 Doubleday. Doubleday, Page & Co., Garden City, N.Y.
   Acquired the book department of the McClure Co. and the Baker &
      Taylor Co.

 Duffield. Duffield & Co., 211 W. 33d St., N.Y.
   Formerly Fox, Duffield & Co.

 Dutton. E. P. Dutton & Co., 681 5th Av., N.Y.


 Elder. Paul Elder & Co., 239 Grant Av., San Francisco.

 Ellis. G: H. Ellis Co., 272 Congress St., Boston.

 Essex Institute, 132 Essex St., Salem, Mass.


 Fenno. R. F. Fenno & Co., 18 E. 17th St., N.Y.
   Purchased the business of Drexel Biddle.

 Forbes. Forbes & Co., 443 S. Dearborn St., Chicago.

 Four Seas Co., 188 Dartmouth St., Boston.

 Free Speech League, 56 E. 59th St., N.Y.

 Funk. Funk & Wagnalls Co., 354-360 4th Av., N.Y.
   Acquired the publications of Cassell & Co.


 Ginn. Ginn & Co., (Educational text-bks.) 15 Ashburton Place, Boston;
    2301-2311 Prairie Av., Chicago.

 Gomme. L. J. Gomme, 122 E. 17th St., N.Y.

 Good Health Pub. Co., 7803 W. Main St., Battle Creek, Mich.

 Grafton & Co., 8 Coptic St., Bloomsbury, London. W.C.
   Library publications for sale by The H. W. Wilson Co.

 Gresham Pub. Co., 34 Southampton St., Strand, London, W.C.


 Hammond & Co. C. S. Hammond & Co., 30 Church St., Hudson Terminal
    Bldg., N.Y.

 Harper. Harper & Brothers, Franklin Square, N.Y.

 Harrap & Co., 2 and 3 Portsmouth St., Kingsway, London, W.C.

 Harvard Univ. Press, 2 University Hall, Cambridge, Mass.

 Harvey. George U. Harvey, 109 Lafayette St., N.Y.

 Headley Bros., Kingsway House, Kingsbury, London, W.C.

 Heath. D. C. Heath & Co., 50 Beacon St., Boston; 231 W. 39th St., N.Y.;
    623 S. Wabash Av., Chicago.

 Heffer & Sons, 4 Petty Curry, Cambridge, England.

 Heinemann, William, 20-21 Bedford St., Strand, London, W.C.

 Henley. Norman W. Henley Pub. Co., Putnam Bldg., 2 W. 45th St., N.Y.

 Herder. B. Herder, 17 S. Broadway, St. Louis.

 Hodder & Stoughton, St Paul’s House, Warwick Sq., London, E.C.

 Hogg, John, 13 Paternoster Row, London, E.C.

 Holt. Henry Holt & Co., 19 W. 44th St., N.Y.

 Home Correspondence School, 368 Main St., Springfield, Mass.

 Houghton. Houghton, Mifflin Co., 4 Park St., Boston; 16 E. 40th St.,
    N.Y.; 2451-2459 Prairie Av., Chicago; 278 Post St., San Francisco.
   Entire list of publications are placed on a net basis.

 Huebsch. B. W. Huebsch, 225 5th Av., N.Y.

 Hutchinson & Co., 34-36 Paternoster Row, London, E.C.


 Jacobs. G: W. Jacobs & Co., 1628 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.

 Jenkins, 12 Arundel Pl., Haymarket, London, S.W.

 Jewish Pub. Jewish Publication Society of America, Broad St. & Girard
    Av., Philadelphia.

 Jones, Marshall. Marshall Jones Co., 212 Summer St., Boston.

 Judd. Orange Judd Co., 315 4th Av., N.Y.


 Kenedy. P. J. Kenedy & Sons, 44 Barclay St., N.Y.

 Kennerley. Mitchell Kennerley, Park Av. & 59th St., N.Y.

 Kerr. Charles H. Kerr & Co., 341 E. Ohio St., Chicago.

 Knopf. Alfred A. Knopf, 220 W. 42d St., N.Y.


 Lane. John Lane Co., 116-120 W. 32d St., N.Y.

 LaSalle Extension University, 2550 Michigan Av., Chicago.

 Laurie, T. W., 8 Essex St., Strand, London, W.C.

 League to Enforce Peace, 70 5th Av., N.Y.

 Lippincott. J. B. Lippincott Co., East Washington Sq., Philadelphia.

 Little. Little, Brown & Co., 34 Beacon St., Boston.

 Longmans. Longmans, Green & Co., 443-449 4th Av., cor. 30th St., N.Y.
   Publish the Columbia University studies in history, economics and
      public law, formerly published by Macmillan.
   Sole Am. Agents for Edward Arnold, London.

 Lothrop. Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co., 93 Federal St., Boston.
   A consolidation of The Lee & Shepard Co. and The Lothrop Co.

 Low, Marston & Co., 100 Southwark St., London, S.E.

 Luce, J: W. John W. Luce & Co., 212 Summer St., Boston.

 Lutheran Pub. Soc., 1424 Arch St., Philadelphia; 150 Nassau St., N.Y.;
    159 N. State St., Chicago.


 Macaulay Co., 15 W. 38th St., N.Y.

 McBride. Robert M. McBride, 31 Union Square, N., N.Y.
   Formerly McBride, Nast & Co.

 McClurg. A. C. McClurg & Co., 330-352 E. Ohio St., Chicago.

 McGraw. McGraw-Hill Bk. Co., 239 W. 39th St., N.Y.

 McKay. David McKay, 604-608 S. Washington Square, Philadelphia.

 Maclehose & Sons, 61 St. Vincent St., Glasgow.

 Macmillan. The Macmillan Co., 66 5th Av., N.Y.

 Manual Arts Press, 105 4th Av., Peoria, Ill.

 Marshall & B. Marshall & Bruce, 162-166 4th Av., N., Nashville, Tenn.

 Maunsel & Co., 40 Museum St., London, W.C.

 Meth. Bk. Methodist Bk. Concern, 150 5th Av., N.Y.
   _See also_ Abingdon Press.

 Methuen & Co., 36 Essex St., Strand, London, W.C.

 Metropolitan Museum of Art, 5th Av. & 82d St., N.Y.

 Milford. Oxford University Press, Amen Corner, London, E.C.

 Missionary Education Movement, 156 5th Av., N.Y.
   Formerly Young People’s Missionary Movement.

 Mitchell & Co., 1 & 2, Snow Hill, London, E.C.

 Moffat. Moffat, Yard & Co., 116-120 W. 32d St., N.Y.

 Murphy, J: John Murphy Co., 200 W. Lombard St., Baltimore, Md.

 Murray, John, 50A Albemarle St., London, W.


 National Military Pub. Co., 1919-1929 Broadway, N.Y

 National Review Office, 43 Duke St., St James’, London, S.W.

 National Short Ballot Organization, 383 4th Av., N.Y.

 National Woman Suffrage Pub. Co., Inc., 171 Madison Av., N.Y.

 Neale. Neale Pub. Co., 440 4th Av., N.Y.

 New Review Pub. Assn., 256 Broadway, N.Y.

 Nisbet, James & Co., 22 Berners St., London, W.

 Norman, Remington Co., 308 N. Charles St., Baltimore, Md.


 Ogilvie. J. S. Ogilvie Pub. Co., 57 Rose St., N.Y.

 Open Ct. Open Court Pub. Co., 122 S. Michigan Av., Chicago.

 Outing Pub. Co., 141 W. 36th St., N.Y.

 Oxford. Oxford University Press (American branch), 35 W. 32d St., N.Y.
   Agents for the publications of Henry Frowde.


 Page. Page Co., 53 Beacon St., Boston.
   Acquired the business of Dana Estes & Co., for which George Sully &
      Co. are the selling agents.

 Palmer & Hayward, Oakley House, Bloomsburg St., London, W.C.

 Penn. Penn Pub. Co., 925 Filbert St., Philadelphia.
   Prices of their juvenile books have been put on a net basis.

 Philippine Education Co., 34 Escolla, Manila.

 Pilgrim Press, 14 Beacon St., Boston; 19 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago.

 Pitman. Sir Isaac Pitman & Sons, 2-6 W. 45th St., N.Y.

 Platt & Nourse Co., 354 4th Av., N.Y.
   Formerly Platt & Peck Co.
   Purchased the business of A. L. Chatterton Co.

 Pond. James B. Pond, 1 Madison Av., N.Y.

 Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton, N.J.

 Putnam. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, Putnam Bldg., 2-6 W. 45th St., N.Y.
   Sole Am. agents for University Press, Cambridge.


 Rand. Rand-McNally & Co., Rand McNally Bldg., Chicago; 40 E. 22d St.,
    N.Y.; 455 S. Olive St., Los Angeles, Cal.

 Reilly & B. Reilly & Britton Co., 1006-12 S. Michigan Av., Chicago.

 Revell. Fleming H. Revell & Co., 158 5th Av., N.Y.; 17 N. Wabash Av.,
    Chicago.

 Richards, Grant, 8 St Martin’s St., Leicester Square, London, W.C.

 Ritter & Co., 120 Boylston St., Boston.
   Formerly Ritter & Flebbe.

 Ronald. Ronald Press Co., Evening Post Bldg., 20 Vesey St., N.Y.

 Row, Peterson & Co., 623 S. Wabash Av., Chicago.

 Russell Sage Foundation, 130 E. 22d St., cor. Lexington Av., N.Y.


 Saunders. W. B. Saunders Co., West Washington Square, Philadelphia.

 Schirmer. G. Schirmer, 3 E. 43d St., N.Y.

 Scott. Scott, Foresman & Co., 623 S. Wabash Av., Chicago; 8 E. 34th
    St., N.Y.

 Scribner. Charles Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th Av., N.Y.; 608 S. Dearborn
    St., Chicago.

 Secker. 5 John St., Adelphi, London, W.C.

 Sherman, F: Fairchild, 1790 Broadway, N.Y.

 Sherman, French & Co., 6 Beacon St., Boston.

 Sherwood Co., 20 John St., N.Y.

 Shores. R. J. Shores, 225 5th Av., N.Y.

 Silver. Silver, Burdett & Co., 126 5th Av., N.Y.; 218-223 Columbus Av.,
    Boston.

 Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent & Co., 4 Stationers’ Hall Court,
    London, E.C.

 Small. Small, Maynard & Co., 15 Beacon St., Boston.

 Smith, Elder & Co., 15 Waterloo Place, London, S.W.

 Standard Pub. Co., 9th & Cutter, Cincinnati, O.

 Stechert. G. E. Stechert & Co., 151-155 W. 25th St., N.Y.
   Selling agents for Harvard University publications and Am. Folklore
      Soc.

 Stewart & Kidd Co., Cincinnati, O.

 Stokes. F: A. Stokes Co., 443-449 4th Av., N.Y.

 Stratford Co., 32 Oliver St., Boston.

 Sturgis & Walton, 31-33 E. 27th St., N.Y.

 Sully. George Sully & Co., 373 4th Av., N.Y.
   Formerly Sully & Kleinteich.
   Selling agents of the Dana Estes & Co. publications of which the Page
      Co. are the proprietors.


 Torch Press, Cedar Rapids, Ia.


 Unity Pub. Co., 700 Oakwood Blvd., Chicago.

 Univ. of Cal. Univ. of California, Berkeley, Cal.
   Address University Press, California Hall, Berkeley.

 Univ. of Chicago Press, 58th St. & Ellis Av., Chicago.

 Univ. of Ill. Press, Urbana, Ill.
   For Univ. studies, address Editor, 305 University Hall, Urbana, Ill.

 Univ. of Neb., Lincoln, Neb.

 Unwin. T. Fisher Unwin. 1 Adelphi Terrace, London, W.C.


 Van Nostrand. D. Van Nostrand Co., 25 Park Pl., N.Y.


 Watt. W. J. Watt & Co., 43 W. 27th St., N.Y.

 Whitcomb & B. Whitcomb & Barrows, 30 Huntington Av., Boston.

 Wiley. John Wiley & Sons, 432 4th Av., N.Y.

 Wilson, H. W. H. W. Wilson Co., 958-964 University (Lind) Av., N.Y.

 Winston. John C. Winston Co., 1006-1016 Arch St., Philadelphia.

 Woman’s Press, 600 Lexington Av., N.Y.

 Wood. William Wood & Co., 51 5th Av., N.Y.

 World Book Co., Park Hill, Yonkers-on-Hudson, N.Y.; 2126 Prairie Av.,
    Chicago.

 Wymond & Clark, Rand-McNally Bldg., Chicago.


 Yale University Press, 209 Elm St., New Haven, Conn.; 225 5th Av., N.Y.

 Young Ch. Young Churchman Co., (Episcopal Pub.) 484 Milwaukee St.,
    Milwaukee, Wis. Sunday School Commission, N.Y. agent.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Kept the ellipsis style of ‘. ...’ used by the publisher.
 2. In the book review digest section removed the bold markup from the
      first word of book titles with no author listed. This is to be
      consistent with book titles with authors listed. Also the
      publisher was inconsistent in the book title markup--usually only
      the first word but sometimes the entire title.
 3. Included “and” in the authors bold markup to be consistent with
      majority practice in this book.
 4. Added missing ‘A’ subheading on p. 1.
 5. Changed all mentions of ‘Serge Aksakoff’ to ‘Sergiei Aksakov’
      beginning with p. 6. ‘Sergiei Aksakov’ is the predominant spelling
      of this author in this book.
 6. Changed ‘Andreieff’ to ‘Andreyev’ on p. 14.
 7. Changed all instances of ‘Nicheren’ to ‘Nichiren’ on p. 14.
 8. Changed ‘of’ to ‘or’ on p. 32.
 9. Changed ‘an’ to ‘and’ on p. 32.
10. Switched the order of the two lines following ‘In the main neither
      sufficiently important’ on p. 42.
11. Changed ‘Clemençeau’ to ‘Clemenceau’ on p. 64 as that is the
      predominant spelling of this surname in the book and article.
12. Changed ‘Dalyrmple’ to ‘Dalrymple’ on p. 136 to agree with book
      listing.
13. Changed ‘GRIGOVII’ to ‘GRIGORII’ on p. 137.
14. Changed foot anchor ‘[8]’ to ‘[2]’ on p. 142 as there was no
      footnote 8.
15. Changed ‘unstaled’ to ‘unstated’ on p. 206.
16. Moved the line ‘war.” (R of Rs) The appendix gives newspaper’ down
      two lines on p. 361.
17. Included the orphaned line ‘v 1 1865-8.’ with the rest of the book
      section on p. 418.
18. Added ‘The’ to ‘Good girl.’ on p. 427. This was the title referred
      to in the reviews.
19. Added ‘of’ on p. 447.
20. Changed ‘know’ to ‘known’ on p. 470.
21. Changed ‘ending’ to ‘unending’ on p. 505.
22. Changed ‘aboard’ to ‘abroad’ on p. 531.
23. Changed ‘is’ to ‘it’ on p. 556.
24. Changed ‘in’ to ‘is’ on p. 603.
25. Changed ‘in’ to ‘to’ on p. 630.
26. Changed ‘lyn’ to ‘(Brooklyn’ on p. 636.
27. Removed duplicated text, ‘factories; reprints of interim report
      and,’ from p. 637.
28. Removed repeated phrase “‘17)” on pp. 668 and 681.
29. Silently corrected typographical errors.
30. Retained anachronistic and non-standard spellings as printed.
31. Did not use a hanging indent in book description in text version.
      This is to aid with electronic processing described below.
32. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
33. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.


 The structure is

            a) information about the book, b) publisher's blurb (or
              excerpt from a review), c) review information including
              rating.

            The text has been formatted to hopefully make it easier for
              a programmer to extract the data.

 Book information

            Are preceeded by two blank lines.

            Are not indented in order to assist with extraction.

            Generally follow the format: =Author.= Book title. Price.
              Publisher.

            Some listings did not include an author. As previously
              mentioned, bold format was removed form the book titles to
              assist with extraction.

            Authors titles and honorifics were placed within the bold
              (=) markup.

            Person job titles such as editor or translator were placed
              outside the bold markup just before the book title.

            Occasionally additional information such as translator or
              editor are included after the book title and before the
              price.

            Many listings are cross references (“See”) to another place
              in this digest.

 Publisher's blurb (or excerpt from a review)

            Are wrapped paragraphs indented two spaces.

            If there are two paragraphs following the book information
              then the first one is generally the publishers blurb.

            Subsequent paragraphs until the next book are exerpts from
              reviews.

 Review information including rating was formatted as follows

            Asterisk (if any) indented one space.

            Plus and minus ratings (if any) occupying the fourth through
              eighth positions, right justified.

            Abbreviated magazine title enclosed in equals ‘=’ signs
              beginning at the tenth position then the reference data
              follows.

            In the reference to a magazine, the first number refers to
              the volume, the next to the page, the letters to the date
              and the last figures to the number of words in the review.
              (Quoted from Other Abbreviation section.)

            Word count is not always present.

 Book information extraction regex example:

            Probably needs to be a two step process:

            Step 1 extract the works where the author is listed, for
              example:

                 regex: (?<=\n{3})[\* ]{0,2}\=([^=]+?)\=

                 output: Author: $1

            Step 2 extract the works without listed authors, e.g.:

       regex: (?<=\S\n{3})[\* ]{0,2}([A-Z][^\=\d\$\*†]+?) [\*\†\d]

       output: Title: $1

            The full solution of capturing the title and publisher are
              left to the user.







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOOK REVIEW DIGEST, VOLUME 13, 1917 ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


