The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Beadle Collection of Dime Novels
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Beadle Collection of Dime Novels

Author: New York Public Library

Release date: June 28, 2017 [eBook #54993]
                Most recently updated: October 23, 2024

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Anita Hammond, Wayne Hammond and the Online
        Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
        file was produced from images generously made available
        by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BEADLE COLLECTION OF DIME NOVELS ***

[Illustration:

  Erastus F. Beadle
  David Adams
  Irwin Beadle (?)

THE FIRM OF BEADLE AND ADAMS, 1862]




  THE
  Beadle Collection
  _of_
  Dime Novels

  _Given to_
  The New York Public Library
  _By_
  Dr. Frank P. O’Brien

  New York
  1922

  REPRINTED JULY 1922
  FROM THE
  BULLETIN OF THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY
  OF JULY 1922

  PRINTED AT THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY

  form p166 [vii-20-22 5c]




THE BEADLE COLLECTION


Through the generosity of Dr. Frank P. O’Brien of New York, who has
given this collection to the Library, it is possible to place on
exhibition about fourteen hundred of those rare little books and
magazines which, beginning about the year 1859, were issued in America
under the broad and general title of “Dime Novels.” These are separate
publications from the house of Beadle and Adams, of which Erastus
Beadle, the Otsego printer, was the originator and guiding spirit. The
remaining 171 items in Dr. O’Brien’s gift are examples of those other
novels which sprang into existence as a result of the popularity with
which the Beadle books were greeted from their first appearance. For
lack of space, they are not in the exhibition. The collection, as shown
in the Main Exhibition Room, constitutes an absorbingly interesting
assemblage of a pioneer literature which has now wholly vanished,
but which, for a generation, exercised a profound influence on the
country’s thought, character, and habits of mind.

No less than thirty-one various “types” or “series” of books,
pamphlets, magazines, and periodicals are embraced in the Beadle
exhibit. Of certain types which were published but for a short time
only, or which have become most difficult to discover, only a few
copies are shown. Other varieties, whose regular appearance extended
over a considerable period of years, are in some few instances
represented by hundreds of different titles. The publications are of
all sizes, from little 24mos to large folio sheets as big as a modern
newspaper. More than half of the different series were originally
issued in illustrated covers or wrappers of different colors, and
they are thus shown. They come in brown, blue, orange, tan, green,
yellow, red, buff and in various combinations of those hues, and in
plain black-and-white. Nearly all are shown in the exhibition cases
in a manner to reveal their outward appearance and the dramatic or
quaint illustrations with which they were embellished, but certain
of the books of each variety are opened for a proper display of the
title-pages.

Although every one of the thirty-one types of Beadle books (and
doubtless many of the individual items also) will awaken vivid
memories in the minds of elder visitors, the dominating influence of
the exhibition--especially to those historically inclined--will be
the effect which it produces as a whole. The collection is literally
saturated with the pioneer spirit of America. It portrays the
struggles, exploits, trials, dangers, feats, hardships, and daily
lives of the American pioneers from the days of the Puritans to the
death of Custer, and breathes the spirit which, for two and a half
centuries, shaped the conquest and development of the Continent north
of the Rio Grande. It is a literature intensely nationalistic and
patriotic in character; obviously designed to stimulate adventure,
self-reliance and achievement; to exalt the feats of the pioneer men
and women who settled the country; and to recite the conditions under
which those early figures lived and did their work.

It is in those obvious qualities that the cause of the immense vogue
of the Beadle books is to be found during their generation. It was in
those attributes, also, that their equally great popular influence lay,
and no serious student who seeks to understand the history of this
country and many of its present tendencies, can fail to obtain a better
understanding of such matters by a study of the collection now on view.
It is a clinic in the subject of mass psychology; as valuable to the
university professor for its significant historical revelations as it
is to the gray-haired man to whom it recalls memories of boyhood.

Erastus Beadle, who did so much to perpetuate and glorify in print the
deeds of the American pioneers, was born in the village of Pierstown,
Otsego County, New York, September 11, 1821. His later interest in
the subject of American pioneer life, and his devotion to the cause
of recording its annals, is no doubt traceable to his own ancestry
and to the experiences of his youth. The grandfather of Erastus was
Benjamin Beadle, of Wethersfield, Connecticut, who fought in the
Revolution under General John Sullivan and General George Clinton. Four
generations of Benjamin Beadle’s ancestors were born in or identified
with Salem, Massachusetts, where Samuel Beadle died about 1664.
Descendants of Samuel fought in the French and Indian Wars.

Benjamin, the Revolutionary soldier, removed to New York in 1796. He
traveled by sail-boat from Connecticut to New York City; thence up the
Hudson to Lansingburg; and by horses and wagons overland through the
wilderness to Otsego County, on Stewart’s Patent, near the present
Richfield Springs. This pioneer was married three times, and was the
father of twenty-three children. The father of Erastus was named Flavel
Beadle, and was a son of Benjamin’s second wife. Flavel Beadle was
eight years of age during the journey into the New York wilderness,
and was there later married to Polly Tuller, who had come from
Massachusetts.

In 1833, when Erastus was twelve years old, he, in his turn, was to
enjoy his first extensive experience of wilderness journeying. He
accompanied the rest of the family on an overland migration to the
town of Schoolcraft, in Kalamazoo County, Michigan Territory, which
pilgrimage occupied many weeks. But the Far West of those days did not
suit Flavel Beadle, and he brought his family back to New York about
two years later.

[Illustration: SETH JONES

By Edward S. Ellis

TYPE A]

[Illustration: COVER IN THREE COLORS

TYPE B]

As a boy, Erastus Beadle worked on a farm, and as apprentice to a
miller. It was while he was a miller’s apprentice that he laid the
foundation of his future career as a printer. Need arose in the
mill one day for some letters to be used in labeling the bags of
grain. Erastus cut the letters from blocks of hardwood, just as the
old block-letters had been made in the days before Gutenberg. He then
left the mill, and, with an alphabet of his home-made wooden type, he
traveled about the region stamping bags in various mills and similarly
marking lap robes, wagons, and other things. On reaching Cooperstown
he came to the attention of Elihu Phinney, the pioneer printer of that
town, who offered him work. In Phinney’s establishment Erastus learned
to be a type-setter, stereotyper, printer, and binder, and with these
abilities as his only capital he moved to the village of Buffalo in
1847. By 1852 he had a printing shop of his own, and in that year he
issued his first publication, entitled “The Youth’s Casket.” In 1856 he
began to issue the excellent magazine called “The Home Monthly” (shown
in the exhibition), and two years later he removed to New York City to
test his great idea.

This plan was to issue “Dime” publications, and possibly had its
immediate origin in the unusual success in Buffalo, of a “Dime Song
Book” in which he had assembled a number of the penny lyrics of the
period. These had been earlier issued in separate broadsides, by
various publishers.

The New York issues of the song books also made an immediate hit, and
were swiftly followed by a number of the miscellaneous hand-books shown
in the present exhibition. Then, in the summer of 1860, came the first
of the original “Dime Novels” in their orange covers. Success was
assured from the start, and the publishing activities of Beadle and
Company speedily grew to vast proportions.

Many of the best writers of the period, who possessed intimate
knowledge of American pioneer life, were asked to put the conditions
and events of earlier generations into attractive form. Among those
whose help was thus enlisted were Judge Jared Hall, Francis Fuller
Barritt, John Neal, Mayne Reid, Mrs. Victor, Colonel A. J. H. Duganne,
Edward S. Ellis, William Eyster, Ann Stephens, Judge William Busteed,
N. C. Iron, Herrick Johnstone, James L. Bowen, Mary Denison, John
Warner, Charles Dunning Clark, and various others.

The little books they wrote were inspired by Erastus Beadle, and his
influence is seen in the fact that every phase of pioneer life, and
every historic event in which his own ancestors had taken part, is
treated in the series of Beadle books. The editorship of the house was
entrusted to Orville J. Victor, one of the most remarkable figures in
the history of American literature. For thirty years, Victor personally
studied, passed upon, and edited the thousands of publications of
the House of Beadle. He insisted, first of all, that the narratives
must be true and accurate portrayals, in spirit, of the pioneer times
and people with which they dealt. They had to reveal wilderness life
and struggle as it was, and depict the conditions amid which the
pioneers did their work. These tales were not history in the literal
or text-book sense, since they often incorporated incidents for which
there was no authentic or contemporary proof. But such material,
if used, had to be consistent with known conditions of the period
portrayed.

Doubtless it was the mass-realization of these facts, on the part of
the public, that brought about such recognition of the so-called “Dime
Novels.” The people were absorbingly interested in the earlier life of
the pioneers, and when it was presented to them in the form inspired by
Beadle and directed by Victor, they--as the slang phrase now goes--“ate
it up.” “Here at last”--they doubtless intuitively felt--“is the real
thing, not set before us as a dull task to memorize, but as a vital
picture to be studied and enjoyed, and from which we may learn.”

Then came the Civil War, and the soldiers literally absorbed the
convenient little books by the million. The volumes were exchanged,
passed from hand to hand, read to tatters, and then thrown away.
Throughout the thirty or more years in which the Beadle books held
ascendancy they were so cheap, and so common, that they were almost
never saved. In that respect they suffered the fate of all common
things. It is almost always the case that the commonest objects of one
generation become the rarest objects of two generations afterward.
Their very commonness is the quality that keeps them from being
treasured by their original possessors. Hence they disappear. Beadle
books, in their day, were as countless as the bison of the plains or
the passenger pigeon of the air. Yet to-day only a few hundred bison
are alive, and are carefully protected, while not one passenger pigeon
is known to exist.

After the Civil War--to a much greater extent than before that
struggle--Beadle and Victor turned their attention to the Far West
and enlisted the aid of numerous western explorers, Indian fighters
and plainsmen in portraying that part of the country. Erastus Beadle,
himself, made a trip across the plains in order to study, at first
hand, the life in those regions. Among those whose knowledge of the
West was thus embodied in the Beadle books were Dr. Frank Powell,
Captain “Bruin” Adams, Buffalo Bill, Major Sam Hall (known as Buckskin
Sam), Major St. Vrain, Joseph Badger, Prentiss Ingraham, Captain
Alfred Taylor, T. C. Harbaugh, Lieutenant Hazeltine, Captain Monstery,
Captain Frederick Whittaker, Lieutenant J. H. Randolph, Major Henry B.
Stoddard, Lieutenant Alfred Thorne, Captain Jack Crawford (the Poet
Scout), Ensign Charles Dudley Warren, Dr. Carver, Henry Inman, Albert
D. Richardson, Dr. J. H. Robinson, Lieutenant James Magoon, Professor
William R. Eyster, Oll Coomes, Captain T. B. Shields, J. B. Omohundro
(who was “Texas Jack”), and dozens of others whose years of personal
knowledge and actual adventure were incorporated in their writings.

For a long time a considerable part of the reading public in the East
looked upon these tales from the Far West as unadulterated fiction,
entirely harmful in its effect. Uncounted armies of boys who lived
between the Mississippi and the Atlantic were taken to the woodsheds
by their fathers, and there subjected to severe physical and mental
anguish as a result of the parental discovery that they were reading
such “impossible trash.” But the intuition of the boys was a truer
guide--in this matter at least--than the opinions of those parents who
did not read the books, and it has finally come to be realized that the
pictures of pioneer life in the Far West, as presented by the Beadle
books, are substantially accurate portrayals of the strange era and
characters therein depicted. As a matter of fact, the men and women who
wrote those narratives for the House of Beadle succeeded much better in
their task than hearsay chroniclers who also undertook it. The Beadle
books present a more accurate and vivid picture of the appearance,
manner, speech, habits and methods of the pioneer western characters
than do the more formal historians. The reason for that circumstance
lies in the fact that writers chosen by Beadle and Victor were ones
who had lived the life of which they told, and were familiar with its
fundamental, day-by-day qualities. That advantage enabled them to get
closer to real conditions than the distant commentators and hearsay
chroniclers whose methods of narration were in a considerable degree
hampered by existing conventionalities of historical writing, whose
viewpoint of western life had not been shaped by long or intimate
contact with it. Much of the biographical material relating to famous
western characters, which is embodied in various Beadle books, is not
to be found elsewhere. And, since the lives of the men thus treated are
an integral and essential part of western history, the importance now
placed on such biographical and regional material is easily seen.

In the years when the little Beadle volumes were common, and at the
height of their popularity, they were often denounced from the pulpit
as pernicious and evil in their influence upon the men and boys who
read them so avidly. But such condemnation was due to ignorance of
their character. Of late years that judgment has been radically
reversed. The present esteem in which they are held was in part stated
by Charles Harvey, in an article on the subject published by him in the
_Atlantic Monthly_ for July, 1907. Mr. Harvey said:

“Ethically they were uplifting. The hard drinkers, and the grotesquely
profane and picturesquely depraved persons who take leading roles in
many of the dime novels of recent times were inexorably shut out from
their progenitors of Beadle’s days.

“These tales incited a love of reading among the youth of the
country.... Many of the boys and girls who encountered Pontiac, Boone,
the renegade Girty, Mad Anthony, Kenton, and Black Hawk in their pages
were incited to find out something more about those characters and
their times, and thus were introduced to much of the nation’s story and
geography. Manliness and womanliness among the readers were cultivated
by these little books, not by homilies, but by example. It can be
truthfully said that the taste and tone of the life of the generation
which grew up with these tales were improved by them. No age limit was
set up among Beadle’s readers. Lincoln was one of them.”

When Lincoln sent Henry Ward Beecher to England as a Special
Commissioner, in an effort to win support for the Union from the
English Cabinet, it was Victor, editor of the House of Beadle, whose
“Address to the English People” gave material aid to the President’s
representative. After Beecher had returned he discussed these things
with Victor, and said to him: “Your little book and Mrs. Victor’s novel
[referring to ‘Maum Guinea’] were a telling series of shots in the
right spot.”

It was Victor, also, who wrote the life of Lincoln included in the
“Lives of Great Americans” series, and who, in his hastily composed
memorial preface to that volume, summarized the dead President in a
manner not excelled by any other writer of the period. Victor therein
said: “Few men realized the magnitude of his task--it was too mighty
for comprehension; few men were dispassionate enough to judge justly;
few were wise enough to judge understandingly.”

Such was the man who, under the guidance of Erastus Beadle, chose and
edited the pioneer literature which, for a generation, molded the
thought and ambitions of America’s youth. That literature itself has
almost disappeared, but its effects on the national life are everywhere
still present.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the exhibition are shown about sixty-eight different examples of
the famous “original yellow back” Dime Novels, which began to appear
in 1860. No less than seventeen of the first twenty-five titles
constituting this series are embraced in the collection. Number 8 is a
first edition copy of Edward Ellis’ celebrated “Seth Jones,” a story of
the New York Wilderness in 1785. More than 450,000 copies of this book
had been sold in America before 1865, and it had been translated into
seven foreign languages. Number 9, “The Slave Sculptor,” illustrates
the little known bibliographical fact that Beadle and Company issued
English editions of many of these books from 44 Paternoster Row,
London. The English editions were printed from the American stereotype
plates, with specially prepared title-pages. It was during the issuance
of the first few titles of the original Dime Novels that various
experiments were made by the publishers in the form and color of these
books. Numbers 10, 11 and 12 illustrate such changes. But the
appearance adopted in Number 11 was finally chosen, and thenceforth was
adhered to during the printing of over 300 books in the yellow-back
series. Among other titles included in this type is a copy of Mrs.
Victor’s “Maum Guinea,” which was preferred by President Lincoln,
as a portrayal of slavery, over Mrs. Stowe’s “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
Still other celebrated issues among the yellow-backs shown are Ellis’
“Riflemen of the Miami,” Frances Barritt’s “The Land Claim,” and Ann
Stephen’s “Story of the Oregon Trail.”

[Illustration: COVER IN THREE COLORS

TYPE C]

[Illustration: COVER IN FOUR COLORS

TYPE H]

The second series of Beadle books portraying pioneer conditions and
events was called the “Pocket Novels,” which began to appear about 1869
or 1870. These were of the same 12mo size as their predecessors, but
the previous uniformity of coloring was abandoned for a more brilliant
appearance and each cover was given a multi-colored illustration on
a solid background of red, green, blue or brown. Some sixty-four
titles of this series are displayed, and almost without exception
they deal with historical pioneer conditions, events and personages.
Among these books the visitor will find “Mad Anthony’s Scouts,” by
Rodman; Whittaker’s “Boone the Hunter” and “Dick Darling” (the pony
expressman); “Billy Bowlegs”; and “The Sons of Liberty” and “Mohawk
Nat,” by the historian Charles Dunning Clark, who wrote for Beadle
under the pen name of W. J. Hamilton. Clark wrote no less than
seventeen of the “Pocket Novels” books, nearly all of them dealing
with the periods and circumstances of the French-Indian wars in New
York, Virginia and Pennsylvania, or with the scenes of the Revolution,
phases of national history upon which Clark was a specialist. Many of
the “Pocket” series also dealt with the settlement of the Ohio and
Mississippi Valleys from 1780 to 1815, and with the Far West from 1849
to 1869. This “Pocket” series is bibliographically known as Type B of
the Beadle publications, while the original yellow-backed books belong
to Type A.

The next two groups--Types D and E--have a common title, the “Boy’s
Library of Sport, Story and Adventure,” and are distinguished from one
another by the larger size and earlier issuance of the Type D items.
They are imperial octavo in size, whereas the Type E publications
are ordinary octavos. Both are uncolored, and have their title-pages
entirely occupied with bold black-and-white illustrations. The Type
D books are somewhat different in various qualities from their
predecessors, and were obviously designed to create an interest
in foreign countries, peoples and customs as well as in American
adventure. A typical item of this class is Harbaugh’s “Snow Shoe
Tom, or New York Boys in the Wilderness,” wherein the veteran author
(who is still living in Ohio) instructs his readers regarding camp
and wilderness life in Maine, in moose-hunting, fishing, trapping,
the making of snow-shoes, and self-reliance in the woods. The Type E
books are concerned almost wholly with life in the Far West, and with
the lives and adventures of celebrated plainsmen. Among these titles
are Aiken’s story of the exploits of “Kit Carson”; Joseph Badger’s
Autobiography (written under the pen name of Post); and Ingraham’s
biography of the celebrated scout called Texas Jack, whose real name
was J. B. Omohundro.

A series of little 12mo paper books having about 100 pages each,
with colored illustrations on orange-red covers, come next in the
exhibition. These are of the “New Dime Novels” series, known in
bibliographical realms as Type F. There are no less than 114 of them,
all in remarkable condition considering that some were copyrighted as
early as 1866, and none are less than forty years old. These books,
like the original dime publications and the Pocket series, are devoted
to the early Indian wars, to various pioneer conditions and events, to
the settlement of the Mississippi Valley and to the Far West. Among
the titles displayed in this section are “Eph Peters, the Scout of
the Mohawk Valley,” by Clark; “Indian Jim,” a story of the Minnesota
Massacres of 1862, by Ellis; “Wingenund,” by Murray; “The Grizzly
Hunters,” by Captain Whittaker; a Sioux narrative under the title
of “Old Zip,” by Bruin Adams; John Neal’s description of the Maine
“Moosehunter”; and Whittaker’s story of “The Death’s Head Rangers” of
Texas.

Next among the various varieties of publications are the “American
Tales.” These (the Type G books) have become particularly rare, and are
represented by but five examples. They are octavos with brown pictorial
covers. One of these, entitled “The Blue Brotherhood, or the Young
Patroon’s Inheritance,” deals with the events of the Mohawk Valley
during the Revolution, and with the manor house of Abram Van Kempen,
which was then known as “Van Kempen’s Castle.”

Most spectacular and attractive of all, in their outward appearance,
are the books of the Type H series. These are likewise octavos,
published in 1870 and the years immediately following, and they have
dramatically drawn covers published in colors. For a long time it was
not known by modern bibliographers that these tales were published by
Beadle, since, almost without exception, they bear an imprint reading
“Frank Starr and Company, Publishers, 41 Platt Street.” Investigation,
however, at length disclosed that Frank Starr was a foreman in Beadle’s
employ, and that 41 Platt Street was a rear entrance to the Beadle
establishment. And finally a copy of “The Texan Spy” of this series
was discovered, with the Beadle imprint on the title-page, and also a
Beadle copyright, although the “Frank Starr” attribution appears on
the front cover. The title-page of “The Texan Spy,” which ultimately
settled the problem, is shown in the exhibition. Although this series
is among the most rare, no less than thirty-nine examples are in the
collection. They embrace historical tales dealing with Kit Carson,
the Gulf Pirates, the Black Hawk War, Pioneer Life in Texas, the New
York Wilderness, the Seminole War, Early California, the Trappers of
the West, the Civil War, Early Ohio, Marion’s Rangers, the Settlement
of the Susquehanna Region, and many other equally absorbing phases of
American pioneer conditions.

Following comes an assemblage of very different outward aspect. These
are 105 specimens of the “Pocket Library,” which are collectively known
as Type J. They are uniform, small octavo pamphlets of thirty-two
pages each, with the front covers occupied by illustrations in
black-and-white. The very first issue of this series is shown. It is
Edward Wheeler’s story of “Deadwood Dick, the Prince of the Road.”
Among the more important items in this division of the collection are
Omohundro’s story of the Scout New Wylde, Captain J. F. C. Adams’
“Oregon Sol,” the same famous pioneer’s tale of “Nick Whiffle’s Pet,”
Mayne Reid’s “The Yellow Chief,” Prentiss Ingraham’s “Buffalo Bill’s
Bet,” and Ingraham’s “Pony Express Rider.” The dominant motif of this
series is far western adventure, but there are also numerous stories
portraying life in New York City.

The succeeding group (belonging to Type K) reveals another striking
reversal of form and outward appearance. These are fat little 12mo
books of about 200 pages each, with colored illustrated covers. But
much of the coloring used in decorating the covers in this series,
was not done by the printing press. It was performed by paint brush
and human hand, on each separate volume, as part of the original
publication process. As a result of this innovation, and also of
course due in part to the increased size of the books, these volumes
were sold at 20 cents each. Their publication began in 1871, and but
few titles appeared. They are now exceedingly rare, although fifteen
of the thirty-one known items of the series are shown by the Library,
including No. 1. It is Albert Aitken’s story of “Overland Kit.” No. 11
is “Idaho Tom,” by Oll Coomes; No. 17 is Mrs. Victor’s “Turkey Dan”;
No. 27 is Buffalo Bill’s “Deadly Eye,” and No. 29 is Badger’s “Old
Bull’s Eye.” All are attractive and well-made little volumes. “Deadly
Eye” is embellished by a cover portrait of Cody, done in colors.

Following the Type K books in the exhibition come 317 issues of the
“Beadle’s Half-Dime Library.” Somewhat more than one thousand titles
appeared in this series, and the Library’s collection, therefore,
contains nearly one-third of the titles published in this form. As
their collective name indicates they were sold for five cents, and were
the most ephemeral of all the Beadle imprints. Millions of them came
from the press, but, owing to their cheapness, form, and popularity,
virtually none were saved.

These tales are sixteen-page pamphlets of royal octavo size, with
the front page almost always filled by a strongly-drawn and dramatic
illustration portraying some vital incident of the narrative. Although
the series, as a whole, is mainly devoted to far western life and
conditions, it also contains numerous stories dealing with New York
City. Among these the exhibition shows copies of “Broadway Billy’s
Boodle” (No. 514); “Broadway Billy in Clover” (No. 678); and “Bicycle
Bob’s Hot Scorch, a Story of the Schoharie County Hayseed in New York”
(No. 989); all by Cowdrick; “Bowery Ben in Chinatown” (No. 892), by
Harold Payne; and “Buck Bumblebee, the Harlem Hummer” (No. 623); and
“The Big Four of the Bowery” (No. 837), both by Joseph Pierce.

The far western tales and biographies in this series are particularly
interesting. Among the biographical issues are “Buffalo Billy, the Boy
Bull-whacker” (No. 191), by Captain Taylor; “Buffalo Bill’s Bet” (No.
194), by Taylor; “Bison Bill” (No. 216), by Ingraham; “California Joe’s
First Trail” (No. 376), by Col. Monstery; “California Joe’s War Trail”
(No. 395), by Captain Whittaker; Ingraham’s narrative of Joe Bruce, the
Texas Ranger, under the title of “Arizona Joe” (No. 495); and the same
author’s story of William L. Taylor of Texas, under the title of “Buck
Taylor, King of the Cowboys” (No. 497). The illustrations borne by all
the titles of this series will be found to possess unusual interest,
but some of the drawings have an especial fascination. Notable in such
regard are “Giant George” (No. 246); “Sierra Sam’s Pard” (No. 253);
“The Scalp King” (No. 288); and “Ker-Whoop, Ker-Whoo” (No. 318).

The largest group of all, in the Library exhibit, is that representing
the Type M publications of Beadle. These were collectively known as the
Dime Library, of which each issue was an imperial octavo of thirty-two
pages, with an illustration on the front cover. Nearly one thousand
titles were issued in this series, of which the Library possesses
and shows 356, or considerably more than one-third of all that were
published. Probably a majority of the Dime Library tales portray
the conditions and famous characters of the Far West, and among the
pioneer phases of western life with which its titles deal are overland
emigration, fur trapping, lumber-camp life, gold hunting, the Texas
War, the exploits of the Texas Rangers, the stage coach era, cattle
rustling, ranch life, vigilante rule, the depredations of road-agents,
Indian fighting, and conditions in all the new states and territories.

Many of these Dime Library pamphlets are also biographical. The
narratives of this type dealing with celebrated western characters
embrace “Kit Carson, Jr., the Crack Shot of the West” (No. 3), by Major
Hall; “Joaquin, the Saddle King” (No. 154), by Badger; “Wild Bill” (No.
154), by Ingraham; “Big Foot Wallace” (No. 204), by Major Hall; and
“The Lasso King’s League” (No. 653), and “The Cowboy Clan” (No. 658),
by Ingraham. The last two named deal with Buck Taylor of Texas. Several
of this series were written by Cody, and still others relate to him.
Among these are “Buffalo Bill’s Secret Trail” (No. 682), by Major Burr;
and “Buffalo Bill’s Body Guard” (No. 727), by Ingraham.

Included also in this department of the collection are a number of
Aiken’s stories of New York City life. Some of these titles are “The
Wolves of New York” (No. 161); “The Phantom Hand, or the Heiress of
Fifth Avenue” (No. 72); and “The Wall Street Blood, or, Tick, Tick, the
Telegraph Girl.”

[Illustration: TYPE J]

[Illustration: TYPE L]

Following the imposing array just described there come, in the
exhibition, representatives of seven exceedingly rare groups of Beadle
publications. Of “Beadle’s Dime Fiction Library,” published in 1864 and
1865, only five examples are present. The “Library of Choice Fiction,”
also published in 1864, is represented only by “The Maiden Martyr,”
which deals with the New England witchcraft horror. “Beadle’s 15 cent
Novels” series, which appeared in 1861, has a New York history specimen
in the shape of “The Maid of Esopus, or, The Trials and Triumphs of
the Revolution.” The “American Novels” series contains nine titles. It
appeared from 1865 to 1867, and the little books bear the imprint of
Irwin P. Beadle, who was a brother of Erastus. No. 7 of this type is
“Fort Stanwix; a Tale of the Mohawk in 1777,” by Hamilton Myers. Next
in succession are “Frank Starr’s American Novels,” of which there are
but four, published from 1870 to 1872, and they, in turn, are followed
by four specimens of the “Frank Starr’s Fifteen Cent Illustrated
Novels,” which appeared in 1870 and 1871.

Last of all, in this group of rarities, are six copies of the “Boys’
Books of Romance and Adventure.” These, which are perhaps the most
uncommon and important of the Beadle issues, are attractive octavos,
on colored covers. No. 1 of the series (which the Library shows), is
Robinson Crusoe, but all the others deal with famous personages and
events in American history. Some of the books contain several such
narratives, among them being stories of Marion and his men, of Daniel
Morgan, of Tecumseh, Moody, Simon Girty, and other historic characters
of pioneer times. This series of publications was edited by Edward S.
Ellis, and, like several other groups with which it is associated in
the exhibition, has hitherto escaped the knowledge of bibliographers.

Once more there is a striking change in the bewildering display
arranged in the exhibition. The small and colorful exhibits just
described are succeeded by a large illustrated series printed in black
and entitled “New and Old Friends.” These well-made royal octavo
pamphlets of thirty-two pages appeared in 1873, and of the fifteen
known titles the Library possesses and shows no less than fourteen,
only No. 2 of the file being absent. All relate to American pioneer
life. This series was enlarged to folio size after the fifteenth issue,
and two examples in the larger form are in the exhibit. One of them is
“Oonomoo, the Huron,” by Ellis. Of this tale Senator Zachariah Chandler
once said: “The man who does not enjoy ‘Oonomoo the Huron’ has no right
to live.”

“The New York Library,” issued under the Frank Starr imprint for a
short time in 1877 is next represented by No. 19, which is “Red Cedar,
the Prairie Outlaw,” and it is followed by nine copies of “Beadle’s
Popular Library,” an imperial octavo series devoted to western
and detective exploits. These bring to an end the historical and
semi-historical tales published under various imprints by the house of
Beadle.

There still remain, however, two other important phases of its
activity which demand attention, and which, in point of chronology,
even ante-dated the different types of books and pamphlets already
described. When Erastus Beadle removed from Buffalo to New York,
in 1858, his first ventures were a number of little hand-books on
various subjects, and song books. These appeared from 1858 to 1860,
and numerous specimens of them are contained in the Library’s exhibit.
These were 12mo or 16mo in size, and were presented in attractive
colored covers, sometimes with illustrations. Most important and
historically valuable of these publications were the Beadle Baseball
Guides, that began to appear in 1859 or 1860 and were continued for
about twenty years. They were the first continuous series of baseball
guides in the world, and contain a huge mass of information relating
to the national game that is nowhere else to be found. In that respect
they are invaluable, and no history of baseball can be written without
constant recourse to them.

Other volumes of like character in the exhibition are the “Joke
Books”; the “Year Book and Almanac”; the “Ladies Letter Writer”;
the “Housewife’s Manual”; the “Book of Verse”; the “Debater”; the
“Elocutionist,” and the three issues of the “Book of Fun.” The “Book of
Fun No. 3” is notable because of the fact that it is the first edition,
in book form, of Mark Twain’s story of the Jumping Frog, which is
contained on pages 29 to 32. This volume appeared in 1866, preceding by
a year the appearance of the pamphlet commonly accepted as the first
edition of the tale.

Of similar size and make-up are the series of “Dime Dialogues” and
“Dime Speakers,” which are also shown. The Dialogue series contained
at least forty-one issues, and the speaker series is known to have
embraced twenty-five books. Numerous copies of each are shown, the
Speaker No. 1 being dated 1861.

Erastus Beadle was himself a great lover of out-door sports and
out-door life (due, no doubt, to his immediate pioneer ancestry), and
in addition to the baseball guides he published many other similar
hand-books. The Library exhibition contains copies of the Beadle “Book
of Cricket,” of “Football,” of “Croquet,” of “Skating,” of “Curling,”
of “Pedestrianism,” and of “Riding and Driving.” All these appeared in
the ’60’s.

With the outbreak of the Civil War the publisher began the issuance of
little volumes designed to inform the Northern public regarding its
military leaders, and this phase of Beadle activity continued until
1865. Among books of this sort shown in the exhibition are biographies
of the principal Union Generals, the “Report of General Grant,” and the
“Story of the Grand March” made by Sherman. All were published at ten
cents, and each contains about 100 pages of text.

Most important of all the Beadle series, from the historical
standpoint, is that known as Type C and entitled “Lives of Great
Americans.” It appeared monthly, in the 70’s, for about a year, and
contained thirteen different titles. All these are rare, yet the
Library file, as shown, contains no less than eleven of them and
embraces the lives of Washington, Paul Jones, Anthony Wayne, Ethan
Allen, Lafayette, Israel Putnam, Crockett, Tecumseh, Lincoln, Pontiac
and Grant. Those lacking are the lives of Boone and Kit Carson. This
series is attractively bound in colored illustrated covers, much of the
coloring having been done by brush. There was also issued a Life of
General McClellan, and a memorial edition of the Life of Grant, issued
after his death. Both of these are shown.

The other manifestation of Beadle’s early activities after his removal
to New York was his issuance of popular song books. One of the first of
these was the “Dime School Melodist” of 1859. The Library copy (a later
edition) is dated 1860.

Following it came three distinct series of song literature. The
first was a collection called the “Dime Song Book,” which began in
1859 and embraced some twenty or more separate numbers that came out
periodically. The earliest shown by the Library is Number 3, dated
1859. They were 12mos in salmon colored covers, and each number
contained sixty or seventy of the popular ballads of that time.

The second series of songsters was named the “One Cent Song Book,”
of which nine different numbers are known to exist, and of which the
Library shows eight (lacking only No. 6). As its name indicates, it
was sold for a cent, and was a 16mo eight-page pamphlet. All numbers
are extremely rare. It was published in 1868. Previously, in 1861, the
“Dime Union Song Book” in two numbers had been brought out, containing
the war songs of the North.

The third and last songster series was a pretentious royal octavo in
size, and named “Beadle’s Singers’ Library.” Beginning in 1878, it
continued weekly into 1879, and 43 separate numbers are known. Of these
the Library possesses an almost complete file, lacking only numbers
3 and 20, with nearly all the numbers in first edition. The first
editions of these items had large colored vignette illustrations on
the front page, with much of the coloring done by hand. Each number
contained fifty or more songs of the day, the entire series, therefore,
embracing more than two thousand of the songs most popular with the
Americans of 43 years ago.

For that reason it is also a historically invaluable collection,
since the song literature it contains discloses, in striking manner,
the prevailing thoughts and manners of society. Many of the songs
themselves, both in title and text, reveal the prevalence of an
artificial sentimentality, a tolerance of crime and vulgarity, a
worship of alcohol, and a laxity of morals decidedly in contrast with
ideas now prevailing. A column might be filled with the peculiar
titles to these interesting ditties. Among them are “The Crackman’s
Chant,” “Pull Down the Blind,” “Battle of the Kegs,” “Since Terry First
Joined the Gang,” “Grease the Griddle, Birdie, Darling,” “When Brown
Comes Rolling Home,” “She Was Clerk in a Candy Store,” “Billiards and
Pool,” “See that my Nose is kept Red,” “The Way my Daddy Went,” “I’m
Dancing Mad,” “The Old Whisky Jug,” “Go It While You’re Young,” “The
Rat Catcher’s Daughter,” “On Coney Island Beach,” “She Wept her Life
Away,” “Charge the Can Cheerily,” “Bright, Bright Wine,” “I Fancy I’ve
seen you Before,” “Charley the Masher,” “Please Father don’t Drink Any
More,” “Come Home Mother,” and “Dear Father, Come Down with the Stamps.”

Although the preceding outline of Beadle activities sufficiently
suggests that his career was not confined to the publishing of
adventure tales, according to the general impression, there still
remain to be noticed the items which terminate the distinctively Beadle
phase of the Library’s exhibition. They are four in number, of which
three are newspapers and one is a pretentious monthly magazine. The
magazine in question is “The Home Monthly,” four volumes of which
appeared in Buffalo during the years 1856-1860, before Beadle came to
New York City. It ranked among the best periodicals of the country. The
Library shows it in completeness.

The newspapers were all published in New York City. “Belles and Beaux”
was a home weekly issued during 1874. It is represented by Number 3 of
Volume I. Only a few scattered numbers are known. “Girls of Today,”
which came out in 1875/6, is shown in a complete volume. The “Young New
Yorker,” which was issued in 1878/9, is also on view in the shape of a
complete volume. It was an excellent illustrated journal intended to
foster a love of nature and out-of-door life, and completes the cycle
of Beadle literature, which, for extent and variety, has scarcely been
approached by any other American publisher.

The remainder of the collection (not exhibited) consists of numerous
series of adventure tales and other dime novels, nearly all of which
were inspired by, and followed, in the wake of the Beadle imprints.
First in this section come thirty-two of the tales published by DeWitt
in imitation of the original salmon-colored Beadle books. Robert DeWitt
began their publication in New York in 1867, closely following the
outward appearance of the Beadle books, and they continued to appear,
to the number of more than 118, during the following ten years. To some
degree, also, the DeWitt volumes dealt with the same pioneer subjects
and conditions, although they were frankly fiction, and not nearly so
well written as the Beadle books.

Another imitator of Beadle had appeared in Boston in 1864 or 1865, in
the shape of the publishing firm of Elliott, Thomes and Talbot, which
then began the issuance of a series of little blue bound books of
adventure. Some thirteen of this series are known. They are excellently
made volumes, well printed, of about 120 pages each, and were sold for
ten cents. They, however, were not wholly confined to American life in
their subject matter, but included stories dealing with other lands.

Still a third imitator of Beadle was Sinclair Tousey of New York, who,
in 1864, began publishing a series called “American Tales.” These were
octavos in colored illustrated covers, and were sold for 15 cents. They
(doubtless due to the date of their appearance) relate to the Civil War
and its events.

Following are fifty-six numbers of the most famous of the later
generation of American dime novels. These are the “Old Cap Collier
Stories,” first published by the house of Munro in 1883. George Munro,
the originator of the house, was at first a bookkeeper for Erastus
Beadle, but in 1866 Munro left the Beadle establishment, and, in
conjunction with Irwin Beadle, set up a competing enterprise and began
the issuance of Munro’s Ten Cent Novels. They likewise covered the same
historic ground, were put out in the same general form, and acquired
great popularity. Later, however, the Munro books underwent a radical
change, and the “Old Cap Collier” stories took the place of the more
solid historical material. The first of the Cap Collier series dealt
with the Savin Rock Mystery of New Haven, and the ensuing numbers of
the series did not bear any numerical designation until several had
appeared. It continued as a semi-weekly issue for several years, as an
octavo, and later became an imperial octavo. A copy in the large size,
as it appeared 31 years ago, is also included. This title is “The Death
of Sitting Bull, or, General Custer Avenged,” and is number 391 of the
entire Munro output.

Other series of similar later publications are the “Old Sleuth
Library,” the “Wide Awake Library,” the “War Library,” the “Five Cent
Weekly Library,” the “Comic Library,” the “Army and Navy Library,” the
“Nickel Library,” the “Log Cabin Library,” and the “Camp Fire Library.”
All these are degenerate and feeble imitations of the earlier Beadle
publications, but necessary in any comprehensive collection of this
most unusual and significant phase of American literature. The final
group, by contrast, contains several copies of “The Novelette,” first
issued in Boston by Ballou in 1857, and which is believed to have
suggested to Erastus Beadle--in part at least--his great enterprise.
The “Novelette” titles are pretentious and well-printed tales relating
to American history.




THE LIST


The works are entered according to series, and arranged under the
series in their order of issue. All works listed here, unless otherwise
stated, are kept in the Reserve Room.

=American tales.= no. 9, 11, 14, 16, 28-29, 55, 66-67, 70, 75.

  no. 55, 66-67, 70, 75 also numbered second series, no. 11, 22-23, 26,
  31.

HAZLETON, Harry. The prisoner of the mill; or, Captain Hayward’s “body
guard.” By Lieutenant-Colonel Hazeltine [sic].... New York: American
News Co. [cop. 1864.] 46 p. 8^o. (no. 9.)

WILLETT, Edward. The Vicksburg spy; or, Found and lost. A story of the
siege and fall of the great rebel stronghold. New York: American News
Co. [186--?] 48 p. 8^o. (no. 11.)

WARREN, J. Thomas. The traitor’s doom; or, The heiress of Bella Vista.
A tale of the great rebellion, in the Crescent City. New York: American
News Co. [186--?] 38 p. 8^o. (no. 14.)

---- Old Hal Williams; or, The spy of Atlanta. A tale of Sherman’s
Georgia campaign. New York: American News Co. [186--?] 42 p. 8^o. (no.
16.)

---- Old Peggy Boggs; or, The old dominion inside out. A tale of the
great rebellion. New York: American News Co. [186--?] p. 8^o. (no. 28.)

WILLETT, Edward. The cotton thief: a tale of the Red river country. New
York: American News Co. [cop. 1865.] 40 p. 8^o. (no. 29.)

ROBINSON, John Hovey. Mountain Max; or, Nick Whiffles on the border. A
tale of wild life in Missouri. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1869.] 64
p. 8^o. (no. 55.)

CURTIS, Newton Mallory. The blue brotherhood; or, The young patroon’s
inheritance. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1870.] 96 p. 8^o. (no. 66.)

JOHNSON, Francis. Alapaha, the squaw; or, The renegades of the border.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1870.] 98 p. 8^o. (no. 67.)

CURTIS, Newton Mallory. The Texan spy; or, The prairie guide. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1870.] 100 p. 8^o. (no. 70.)

JOHNSON, Francis. The outlaw-hunter; or, Red John, the bush-ranger. A
romance of the ranges. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1871.] 100 p.
8^o. (no. 75.)


The =Army and navy library=; original stories of the heroism, suffering
and adventures of American soldiers and sailors. no. 1-3, 5-7, 9, 11,
15, 17, 19, 25.

WILMOT, Walter. Dashing Delany; or, Foremost in the fray. New York:
Army and Navy Pub. Co., 1883. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 1.)

PARK, Edward. “Old Stars;” or, The path to glory. New York: Army and
Navy Pub. Co., 1883. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 2.)

STEDMAN, Dick. Chickahominy; or, The fortunes of war. New York: Army
and Navy Pub. Co., 1883. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 3.)

LENOIR, Leon. Brave as the bravest; or, Foiled by fate. New York: Army
and Navy Pub. Co., 1883. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 5.)

PARK, Edward. The signal gun; or, Hand to hand. New York: Army and Navy
Pub. Co., 1883. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 6.)

STEDMAN, Dick. Guerrillas and regulars; or, The cost of independence.
New York: Army and Navy Pub. Co., 1883. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 7.)

BALLARD, J. D. Sparks from the camp-fire. The truest and most tragic
tales of the war. New York: Army and Navy Pub. Co., 1883. 23 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 9.)

MORSE, Edward. The lone star of Texas; or, The fight for liberty. New
York: Army and Navy Pub. Co., 1883. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 11.)

LENOIR, Leon. The massacre of Wyoming; or, The brigands of the
revolution. New York: Army and Navy Pub. Co., 1884. 23 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 15.)

DE FORREST, Harry. Lion-hearted Leon; or, Battling for the Stars and
Stripes. A soul-stirring tale of brave deeds, love and adventure. New
York: Army and Navy Pub. Co., 1884. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 17.)

WARREN, U. S. Prisoners of war; or, Captive life within the
Confederacy. New York: Army and Navy Pub. Co., 1884. 23 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 19.)

PARK, Edward. The swamp hero; or, Days that tried men’s souls. New
York: Army and Navy Pub. Co., 1884. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 25.)


=Beadle & Adams=, New York. Beadle and Adams’ standard publications....
[New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884.] 8 l. illus. 4^o.


=Beadle & Adams’ 20 cent novels.= no. 1, 5, 11-12, 15-18, 23-24, 26-29,
31.

AIKEN, Albert W. Overland Kit; or, The idyl of White Pine. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 198 p. 16^o. (no. 1.)

REID, Mayne. The scalp-hunters: a romance of the plains. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 208 p. 16^o. (no. 5.)

COOMES, Oll. Idaho Tom, the young outlaw of Silverland; or, The hunters
of the wild west. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1876]. 178 p. 16^o.
(no. 11.)

REID, Mayne. The white squaw. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868].
196 p. 16^o. (no. 12.)

LEWIS, Charles Bertrand. Mad Dan, the spy of 1776. A centennial story.
By C. B. Lewis (“M. Quad”...). New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873].
154 p. 16^o. (no. 15.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Red Arrow, the wolf demon; or, The queen of the
Kanawha. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 186 p. 16^o. (no. 16.)

VICTOR, Metta Victoria Fuller. Turkey Dan; or, The Unionist’s daughter.
A tale of Tennessee. New York: Beadle and Adams [1876]. 223 p. 16^o.
(no. 17.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Pacific Pete, the prince of the revolver. New York:
Beadle and Adams [1876]. 172 p. 16^o. (no. 18.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The phantom hand; or, The heiress of Fifth avenue, a
story of New York hearths and homes. New York: Beadle and Adams [1877].
194 p. 16^o. (no. 23.)

---- Gentleman George; or, Parlor, prison, stage and street. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 159 p. 16^o. (no. 24.)

---- The white witch; or, The league of three. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1871]. 198 p. 16^o. (no. 26.)

CODY, William Frederick. Deadly-Eye, and The prairie rover. By Buffalo
Bill (Wm. F. Cody). New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1875]. 150 p.
16^o. (no. 27.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Nick Whiffles’ pet; or, Ned Hazel, the
boy trapper. New York: [cop. 1875]. 170 p. 16^o. (no. 28.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Old Bull’s-Eye, the lightning shot of the plains. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1876]. 139 p. 16^o. (no. 29.)

---- Jack Rabbit, the prairie sport; or, The wolf children of the Llano
Estacado. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1876]. 166 p. 16^o. (no. 31.)


=Beadle and Company=, New York. Beadle’s illustrated catalogue of dime
books. New-York: Beadle and Co. [1860.] 32 p. illus. 16^o.


=Beadle’s boy’s library of sport, story and adventure.= [=Large
series.=] no. 2, 6, 8, 10, 22-23, 26, 28, 30-31, 33, 37, 40-42, 44-48,
51-52, 79-80, 83, 89, 91, 106-108, 111-112, 115-117, 119-121.

REID, Mayne. The ocean hunters; or, The chase of Leviathan. A romance
of perilous adventure. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 20 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 2.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Cruise of the Flyaway; or, Yankee boys in
Ceylon. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 6.)

---- The Flyaway afloat; or, Yankee boys ’round the world. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 8.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The snow-trail; or, The boy hunters of
fur-land. A narrative of sport and life around Lake Winnipeg. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 10.)

---- The boy exiles of Siberia; or, The watch-dog of Russia. A tale of
strange adventure in the land of snow and death! New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 22.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Paul de Lacy, the French beast charmer; or,
New York boys in the jungles. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 23.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Snow-Shoe Tom; or, New York boys in the
wilderness. A narrative of sport and peril in Maine. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 26.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The chase of the great white stag, and Camp and
canoe. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 28.)

---- Walt Ferguson’s cruise. A tale of the Antarctic sea. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 30.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The boy crusader; or, How a page and a fool saved
a king. A story of Richard the Lion Heart. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1882. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 31.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Captain Ralph, the young explorer; or, The
Centipede among the floes. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 33.)

STARBUCK, Roger. Old tar Knuckle and his boy chums; or, The monsters of
the Esquimaux border. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 37.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The ice elephant; or, The castaways of the lone
coast. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 40.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The pampas hunters; or, New York boys in
Buenos Ayres. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
41.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The young land-lubber; or, Prince Porter’s
first cruise. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
42.)

DE FORREST, Barry. The snow hunters; or, Winter in the woods. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 44.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Jack, Harry and Tom, the three champion brothers;
or, Adventures of three brave boys with the tattooed pirate. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 45.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The condor killers; or, Wild adventures at
the equator. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
46.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The boy coral-fishers; or, The sea-cavern scourge. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 47.)

MORRIS, Charles. Dick, the stowaway; or, A Yankee boy’s strange cruise.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 48.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The Colorado boys; or, Life on an indigo plantation.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 51.)

MORRIS, Charles. Honest Harry; or, The country boy adrift in the city.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 52.)

EMERSON, Edwin. Minonee, the wood witch; or, The squatter’s secret. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 79.)

WILLETT, Edward. The boy cruisers; or, Joe and Jap’s big find. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 13 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 80.)

MORRIS, Charles. The young nihilist; or, A Yankee boy among the
Russians. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 83.)

REID, Mayne. Gaspar, the gaucho; or, Lost on the pampas. A tale of the
Gran Chaco. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 31 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
89.)

MORRIS, Charles. Moscow to Siberia; or, A Yankee boy to the rescue. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 91.)

BAINBRIDGE, Bryant. Jumping Jake, the Colorado circus boy; or, The
wicked man of Slashaway Bar. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 106.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Mariano, the Ottawa girl; or, The mysterious
canoe. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 107.)

RINGGOLD, Barry. Old Traps; or, The boy rivals. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 108.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. Ethelbert, the shell-hunter; or, The ocean
chase. By Ned Buntline [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 16
p. illus. 4^o. (no. 111.)

MORRIS, Charles. A hot trail; or, Clark Cloverly among the Tartars....
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 112.)

  Companion story to his _Moscow to Siberia_.

BROWNE, George Waldo. The Esquimaux’ queen; or, The mystery of the lone
hut. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 115.)

MORRIS, Charles. Tim, the boy acrobat; or, Life in the circus ring. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 116.)

THOMAS, Henry J. Queen Bessie, the border girl. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 117.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Mink Coat, the death shot; or, The spring of the
tiger. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 119.)

RATHBORNE, St. George. The snow-shoe trail; or, The forest desperadoes.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 13 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 120.)

STODDARD, Henry B. The boy vigilantes; or, King Cole and his band. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 12 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 121.)


=Beadle’s boy’s library of sport, story and adventure.= [=Small
series.=] no. 3, 9-10, 24, 26, 31, 41, 43, 101, 112, 133, 135, 144,
151, 153, 178, 251-252, 305, 317-318.

AIKEN, Albert W. Kit Carson, king of guides. New York: M. J. Ivers &
Co., 1899. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 3.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Roving Joe: the history of a “border boy.” Brief
scenes from the life of Joseph E. Badger, jr. By A. H. Post [pseud.].
New York: M. J. Ivers & Co., 1899. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 9.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Texas Jack, the mustang king. Thrilling adventures
in the life of J. B. Omohundro, “Texas Jack,” the noted scout, Indian
fighter, guide, ranchero, mustang breaker and hunter of the “Lone Star
State.” [New York: M. J. Ivers & Co., 1899.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 10.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Woods and waters; or, The exploits of the
Littleton Gun Club. New York: M. J. Ivers & Co., 1899. 29 p. illus.
8^o. (no. 24.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Red River rovers; or, Life and adventure in the
Northwest. New York: M. J. Ivers & Co., 1899. 29 p. illus. 8^o. (no.
26.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Round the camp-fire; or, Snow-bound at ‘Freeze-Out
Camp.’ A tale of Roving Joe and his hunter pards. New York: M. J. Ivers
& Co., 1899. 29 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 31.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The settler’s son; or, Adventures in
wilderness and clearing. New York: M. J. Ivers & Co., 1899. 28 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 41.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Rifle and revolver; or, The Littleton Gun Club on
the buffalo range. New York: M. J. Ivers & Co., 1899. 30 p. illus. 8^o.
(no. 43.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Mariano, the Ottawa girl; or, The mysterious
canoe. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no.
101.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Left-handed Pete, the double-knife; or, The princess
of the Everglades. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o.
(no. 112.)

WILLETT, Edward. The forest specter. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886.
31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 133.)

HAZLETON, Harry. The Silver Bugle, [by] Lieut. Col. Hazelton [sic]. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 135.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Kent the ranger. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1887. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 144.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Frank Yates, the young trapper. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1887. 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 151.)

BIBBS, Paul. Lynx-Cap. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 29 p. illus.
8^o. (no. 153.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Old Kit and his comrades; or, The long trail. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 178.)

BIBBS, Paul. Kyd’s bold game; or, The death trail mystery. [New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1889.] 29 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 251.)

GLEASON, George. Sancho Sam’s shot; or, Fort Binkley’s specter riders.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1889.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 252.)

WILLETT, Edward. Peddler Paul’s pard; or, Roving Ned in Arkansas. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 305.)

STARBUCK, Roger. Jolly Skipper Jack; or, The young lieutenant’s cruise.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 317.)

EMERSON, Edwin. Sharp-Shooter Sam; or, Arran O’Rourke’s blunder. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 318.)


=Beadle’s citizens’ dime edition,= 4 nos.

Series unnumbered.

UNITED STATES,--Adjutant General’s Office. Major-General Sherman’s
reports.... Official copy.... New York: Beadle and Co. [1865.] 84 p.
16^o. (Beadle’s citizens’ dime edition.)

  1. Campaign against Atlanta. 2. Campaign against Savannah. 3.
  Campaign through the Carolinas. 4. Johnson’s truce and surrender. 5.
  Story of the march through Georgia....

  Submitted to chief of staff, Washington, D. C.

---- Official report of Lieut.-Gen. Ulysses S. Grant; embracing a
history of the operations of the armies of the Union from March, 1862,
to the closing scene of the rebellion.... New York: Beadle and Co.
[1865.] 87 p. 16^o.

  Submitted to Hon. E. M. Stanton, secretary of war.

---- ---- Another issue, with cover and advertisements slightly
different.

UNITED STATES.--Statutes. The National Tax Law; being the amended act
of July 20, 1866, interpolated with the acts of June ’64 and March ’65.
Official certified copy. New York: Beadle and Co. [1866.] 80 p. 16^o.


=Beadle’s dime biographical library.= no. 1-2, 11-12.

VICTOR, Orville James. The life of Joseph Garibaldi, the liberator of
Italy.... New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1860.] 103 p., 1 port. 16^o.
(no. 1.)

  =AN p.v.143, no.7=

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The life and times of Col. Daniel Boone, the
hunter of Kentucky.... New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 96 p.
16^o. (no. 2.)

  =HBM=

---- The life of Tecumseh, the Shawnee chief. Including biographical
notices of Black-Hoof. Cornstalk, Little Turtle, Tarhe (the Crane),
Captain Logan, Keokuk, and other distinguished Shawnee chiefs. New
York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 98 p. front. 16^o. (no. 11.)

VICTOR, Orville James. The life of Maj.-Gen. Geo. B. McClellan,
General-in-Chief U. S. A. Including services in Mexico, on the Red
river exploration expedition, on the Pacific railway survey, on the
European commission, etc. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 98 p.,
1 pl. 16^o. (no. 12.)


=Beadle’s dime book of fun....= no. 1-3. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1860-66.] illus. 16^o.

  no. 3 contains _Jim Smiley’s frog_, by Mark Twain. p. 29-32.


=Beadle’s dime dialogues.= no. 1, 3-4, 10, 12, 14. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1860-87]. 16^o.

  no. 3 has imprint: New York: M. J. Ivers & Co.


=Beadle’s dime family series.= no. 3.

VICTOR, Metta Victoria Fuller. The housewife’s manual; or, How to keep
house and order a home; how to dye, cleanse and renovate; how to cut,
fit, and make garments; how to cultivate plants and flowers; how to
care for birds and household pets; etc., etc., etc. New York: Beadle
and Co. [cop. 1865.] x, 12-97 p. diagrs. 16^o. (no. 3.)


=Beadle’s dime fiction.= no. 1, 3-7.

PRENTICE, George Henry. The marked bullet; or, The squaw’s reprieve. A
tale of border life. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1864.] 39 p. illus.
8^o. (no. 1.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. The willing captive; or, The woodyard mystery.
A tale of Ohio river life. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1864.] 39 p.
8^o. (no. 3.)

MARSHALL, John J. The deer-hunters; or, Life and love in the Ottawa
country. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1865.] 40 p. 8^o. (no. 4.)

EDWARDS, C. L. The Dacotah queen; or, Pat Mulloney’s pilgrimage. A
romance of the Indian country. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1865.] 44
p. 8^o. (no. 5.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. Missing Jo; or, The mystery of Camp White. A
tale of the tents. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1865.] 36 p. 8^o.
(no. 6.)

PRENTICE, George Henry. Gottlieb Gottsoock; or, The bride of the
wilderness. An episode of the border. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1865.] 40 p. 8^o. (no. 7.)


=Beadle’s dime hand-books.= no. 3, 6.

BEADLE’S dime book of verses, comprising rhymes, lines and mottoes, for
lovers and friends; valentines, album pieces, gift verses, birthday
lines, and poetry for bridals, births, mourning, epitaphs, etc. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1863]. 75 p. 16^o. (no. 3.)

BEADLE’S dime ladies’ letter-writer; or, How to write; when to write;
what to write! A complete manual of correspondence! Together with
dictionary of poetic quotations; proverbs from Shakspeare; dictionary
of French, Spanish and Italian phrases, etc., etc., etc. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 6.)


=Beadle’s dime hand-books of games.= 7 nos.

  Series unnumbered.

BEADLE’S dime hand-book of riding and driving; comprising complete
rules for the management of the horse, under the saddle and in harness;
also, a special chapter on female horsemanship.... New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1867]. 32 p. 16^o.

  “... The basis of the work is the Manual of the road and field, by
  ‘Stonehenge’....”--PREFACE.

CHADWICK, Henry. Beadle’s dime book of cricket: a desirable cricketer’s
companion, containing complete instructions in the elements of bowling,
batting, and fielding; also the revised laws of the game, remarks on
the duties of umpires, etc., etc. New York: I. P. Beadle & Co. [cop.
1860.] 40 p. diagrs. 16^o.

---- Beadle’s dime book of cricket and football, being a complete guide
to players, and containing all the rules and laws of the ground and
games. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1866.] 50 p. diagrs. 16^o.

---- Beadle’s dime guide to skating and curling ... for learners and
amateurs. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1867.] 32 p. illus. 16^o.

---- Beadle’s dime hand-book of pedestrianism: giving the rules for
training and practice in walking, running, leaping, vaulting, etc.,
etc. Together with a full account of the great Weston feat. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1867.] 32 p. illus. 16^o.

---- Handbook of winter sports. Embracing: skating, (on the ice and
on rollers,) rink-ball, curling, ice-boating, and American football.
Together with the special code of rules for prize skating of the
Skating Congress, and records of matches at base-ball and cricket on
the ice.... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1879]. 59 p. illus. 16^o.

ROUTLEDGE, Edmund. Beadle’s dime handbook of croquet: a complete guide
to the practice of the game. Giving all the rules proposed by various
American writers on the game. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1866.] 28
p. illus. 16^o.


=Beadle’s dime library.= no. 3-4, 15-18, 20-22, 24, 26-27, 29, 31-32,
39, 42-43, 49-50, 52-54, 56-58, 60, 62, 66-67, 71-72, 74, 78, 80,
84, 86-88, 90-91, 97-99, 105, 114, 119, 122-123, 133, 135-136, 138,
140-142, 145, 148, 150-151, 153-154, 156-164, 166-171, 176, 178, 180,
182-183, 186, 188, 191, 194, 198-200, 202, 204-207, 209-210, 212,
214, 217-227, 229, 233-239, 241-242, 246-247, 249-252, 254-259, 261,
263-265, 267-269, 271, 273-274, 276-277, 279-280, 282, 285, 289,
291-294, 297-299, 301, 303, 305, 308-315, 317, 320-321, 323, 326-328,
330-331, 333, 335-340, 343, 345, 347-348, 350-352, 354-356, 358-361,
365, 367-369, 372, 378, 387, 390, 392, 395, 397, 399, 402, 404,
406-407, 409, 411, 420, 422, 429-442, 446, 449, 453, 484, 487, 490,
499, 502-504, 508, 511-512, 514, 518, 520, 527-528, 533, 535, 541,
545, 547, 549-552, 555, 557-558, 562-563, 567-569, 576, 578, 586, 592,
594, 596-597, 603-604, 607, 611-613, 617-619, 621, 626-627, 629, 631,
633-634, 636-638, 641-642, 645-648, 650-653, 656-663, 668-669, 673,
675-678, 682-683, 687-689, 692, 695, 701, 703, 705, 707, 709, 714, 718,
720, 723, 725, 727, 729-730, 732-733, 737, 740-741, 743-744, 746, 748,
753, 756, 759, 763, 767, 771, 775, 779, 785, 797, 802, 804, 810, 818,
825, 831-832, 834, 845, 852, 870, 884, 887, 896-898, 928, 931, 945,
967, 973, 976, 996.

HALL, Samuel S. Kit Carson. jr., the crack shot of the west. A wild
life romance, by “Buckskin Sam” [pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams,
cop. 1878. 27 p. illus. f^o. (no. 3.)

WARNE, Philip S. The kidnapper; or, The great shanghai of the
northwest. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1879. 24 p. illus. 6. ed.
f^o. (no. 4.)

AIMARD, Gustave. The tiger-slayer; or, Eagle-Head to the rescue. New
York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1879. 36 p. illus. f^o. (no. 15.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. The white wizard; or, The great prophet of
the Seminoles. By Ned Buntline [pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop.
1879. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 16.)

ROBINSON, John Hovey. Nightshade; the robber prince of Hounslow Heath.
New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 17.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. The sea bandit; or, The queen of the isle.
By Ned Buntline [pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1879. 25 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 18.)

AIMARD, Gustave. The bandit at bay; or, The pirates of the prairies.
New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1879. 37 p. illus. f^o. (no. 20.)

---- The trapper’s daughter; or, The outlaw’s fate. New York: Beadle &
Adams, cop. 1878. 37 p. illus. f^o. (no. 21.)

ROBINSON, John Hovey. Whitelaw; or, Nattie of the lake shore. New York:
Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 26 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 22.)

AIMARD, Gustave. Prairie-flower. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1879.
37 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 24.)

JOHNSON, Francis. The death track; or, The outlaws of the mountain. New
York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 27 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no. 26.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The spotter-detective; or, The girls of New York. New
York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 27 p. illus. 9. ed. f^o. (no. 27.)

WARNE, Philip S. Tiger Dick, the faro king; or, The cashier’s crime.
New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 29.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The New York ‘sharp’; or, The flash of lightning. New
York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 29 p. illus. 9. ed. f^o. (no. 31.)

VOSE, John D. B’hoys of Yale; or, The scrapes of a hard set of
collegians. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 24 p. illus. 7. ed.
f^o. (no. 32.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The Russian spy; or, The brothers of the starry
cross. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 23 p. illus. 7. ed. f^o.
(no. 39.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The California detective; or, The witches of New York.
New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 31 p. illus. 9. ed. f^o. (no. 42.)

COOMES, Oll. Dakota Dan, the reckless ranger; or, The bee-hunters’
excursion. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 27 p. illus. f^o. (no.
43.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The wolf demon; or, The queen of the Kanawha. New
York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 43 p. illus. f^o. (no. 49.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Jack Rabbit, the prairie sport; or, The wolf children
of the Llano Estacado. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 39 p.
illus. 7. ed. f^o. (no. 50.)

CODY, William Frederick. Death Trailer, the chief of scouts; or, Life
and love in a frontier fort. By Buffalo Bill--Hon. William F. Cody. New
York: M. J. Ivers & Co., cop. 1878. 21 p. illus. f^o. (no. 52.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Silver Sam; or, The mystery of Deadwood City. By
Colonel Delle Sara [pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 38 p.
illus. 10. ed. f^o. (no. 53.)

=Warne=, Philip S. Always-on-hand; or, The sportive sport of the
foot-hills. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 31 p. illus. 13. ed.
f^o. (no. 54.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The Indian Mazeppa; or, The madman of the plains. A
strange story of the Texan frontier. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop.
1878. 45 p. illus. 8. ed. f^o. (no. 56.)

ST. JOHN, Percy Bolingbroke. The silent hunter; or, The Scowl Hall
mystery. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 46 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o.
(no. 57.)

ROBINSON, John Hovey. Silver Knife; or, Wickliffe, the Rocky Mountain
ranger. New York: Beadle & Adams, cop. 1878. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 58.)

DUMONT, Frank. Wide-a-wake, the robber king; or, The idiot of the Black
Hills. A dramatic romance of wild life on the border. New York: Beadle
& Adams, cop. 1879. 21 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 60.)

AIMARD, Gustave. Loyal Heart; or, The trappers of Arkansas. New York:
Beadle & Adams, cop. 1879. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 62.)

REID, Mayne. The specter barque; a tale of the Pacific. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1879. 38 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no. 66.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The boy jockey; or, Honesty versus crookedness. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1879. 28 p. illus. 7. ed. f^o. (no. 67.)

---- Captain Cool Blade; or, The man-shark of the Mississippi. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1879. 23 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 71.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The phantom hand; or, The heiress of Fifth Avenue. A
story of New York hearths and homes. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1879. 44
p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no. 72.)

REID, Mayne. The captain of the rifles; or, The queen of the lakes. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1879. 20 p. illus. f^o. (no. 74.)

GRAINGER, Arthur M. The mysterious spy; or, Golden Feather, the
buccaneer’s daughter. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1879. 31 p. illus. 3.
ed. f^o. (no. 78.)

WARNE, Philip S. A man of nerve; or, Caliban, the dwarf. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1879. 19 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 80.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Hunted down; or, The league of three. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1879. 46 p. illus. 8. ed. f^o. (no. 84.)

ST. JOHN, Percy Bolingbroke. The big hunter; or, The queen of the
woods. A romance of the days of Boone. By the author of “The silent
hunter.” New York: Beadle & Adams, 1880. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 86.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The scarlet captain; or, The prisoner of the
tower. A story of heroism. By Col. Delle Sara [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1880. 22 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 87.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Big George, the giant of the gulch; or, The five
outlaw brothers. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1880. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no.
88.)

HALL, Samuel S. Wild Will, the mad ranchero; or, The terrible Texans.
A romance of Kit Carson. jr., and Big Foot Wallace’s long trail. By
“Buckskin Sam.” (Major Sam S. Hall.) New York: Beadle & Adams, 1880. 22
p. illus. 11. ed. f^o. (no. 90.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The winning oar; or, The innkeeper’s daughter. A
story of Boston and of Cambridge, of the college boys of Harvard, of
the great boat-race, of woman’s love, man’s treachery, and sisterly
devotion. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1880. 24 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no.
91.)

---- Bronze Jack, the California thoroughbred; or, The lost city of the
basaltic buttes. A strange story of a desperate adventure after fortune
in the weird, wild Apache land. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1880. 24 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 97.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The rock rider; or, The spirit of the Sierra. A
tale of the three parks. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1880. 19 p. illus.
4. ed. f^o. (no. 98.)

COOMES, Oll. The giant rifleman; or, Wild life in the lumber regions.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1880. 27 p. illus. f^o. (no. 99.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Dan Brown of Denver, the Rocky Mountain detective.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1880. 29 p. illus. 7. ed. f^o. (no. 105.)

WARNE, Philip S. The gentleman from Pike; or, The ghost of the canyon.
A tale of the American wonder-land. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1880. 27
p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 114.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Alabama Joe; or, The Yazoo man-hunters. A tale of the
Big Black Swamp. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 28 p. illus. 4. ed.
f^o. (no. 119.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. Saul Sabberday, the idiot spy; or,
Luliona, the Seminole. By Ned Buntline [pseud.].... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1881. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 122.)

JOHNSON, Francis. Alapaha, the squaw; or, The renegades of the border.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 23 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 123.)

CARLETON, William. Rody, the rover, the ribbonman of Ireland. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1881. 31 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 133.)

JOHNSON, Francis. The bush ranger; or, The half-breed brigade. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 23 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no. 135.)

---- The outlaw hunter; or, Red John, the bush ranger. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1881. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 136.)

---- The border bandits; or, The horse-thief’s trail. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1881. 23 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no. 138.)

WALKER, George. The three Spaniards. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 48
p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 140.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Equinox Tom, the bully of Red Rock; or, Dan Brown’s
master-stroke. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 29 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o.
(no. 141.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Captain Crimson, the man of the iron face; or, The
Nemesis of the plains. A romance of love and adventure in the “land
of the setting sun.” By Major Dangerfield Burr [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1881. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 142.)

EYSTER, William R. Pistol pards; or, Soft Hand, the silent sport from
Cinnabar. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 145.)

COOMES, Oll. One-armed Alf, the giant hunter of the Great Lakes. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 21 p. illus. f^o. (no. 148.)

MONSTERY, Thomas Hoyer. El Rubio Bravo, king of the swordsmen; or, The
terrible brothers of Tabasco. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 21 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 150.)

AIMARD, Gustave. The freebooters. A story of the Texan war. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1881. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 151.)

---- The white scalper. A story of the Texan war. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1881. 28 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 153.)

BADGER, Joseph. E. Joaquin, the saddle king. A romance of Murieta’s
first fight. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no.
154.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Velvet Face, the border bravo; or, Muriel, the
Danite’s bride. The romance of a border mystery. By Major Dangerfield
Burr [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 22 p. illus. 5. ed.
f^o. (no. 156.)

MONSTERY, Thomas Hoyer. Mourad, the Mameluke; or, The three
swordmasters. A tale of the Grand Army. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881.
24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 157.)

POWELL, Frank. The doomed dozen; or, Dolores, the Danite’s daughter.
A romance of border trails and Mormon mysteries. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1881. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 158.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Red Rudiger, the archer; or, The Lady Bertha’s
treachery. A romance of the Alps. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 27 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 159.)

EYSTER, William R. Soft Hand, sharp; or, The man with the sand. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 21 p. illus. f^o. (no. 160.)

---- ---- New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 21 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no.
160.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The wolves of New York; or, Joe Phenix’s great man
hunt. A strange story of the inner life of the great metropolis by
day and by night; a tale of the wiles of the human wild beasts who
have their lairs in the heart of the great city, and of the honest
watch-dogs who guard society against them. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1881. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 161.)

---- ---- New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 24 p. illus. 7. ed. f^o. (no.
161.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The mad mariner; or, Dishonored and disowned. A sea
and shore romance of wrong and retribution. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1881. 22 p. illus. f^o. (no. 162.)

ROBINSON, John Hovey. Ben Brion, the trapper captain; or, Redpath, the
avenger. A romance of the rival fur brigades. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1881. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 163.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The king’s fool: or, The knights of the clasped
hands and red branch. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 24 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 164.)

---- ---- New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 24 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no.
164.)

URBAN. Septimus R. Owlet, the robber prince; or, The unknown
highwayman. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1881. 37 p. illus. f^o. (no. 166.)

MORRIS, Anthony P. The man of steel; or, The masked knight of the white
plume. A tale of love and terror. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 23 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 167.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Wild Bill, the pistol dead shot; or, Dagger Don’s
double. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 22 p. illus. f^o. (no. 168.)

MONSTERY, Thomas Hoyer. Corporal Cannon, the man of forty duels. A true
story of the African chasseurs. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 23 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 169.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Sweet William, the trapper detective; or, The chief
of the crimson clan. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 29 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 170.)

WARNE, Philip S. Tiger Dick, the man of the iron heart; or, The dumb
bandit. An episode of Freeze-out Camp. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882.
28 p. illus. 8. ed. f^o. (no. 171.)

MANNING, William H. Lady Jaguar, the robber queen. A romance of the
black chaparral. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.]. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1882. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 176.)

HALL, Samuel S. Dark Dashwood, the desperate; or, The child of the sun.
A tale of the Apache land. By Major Sam S. Hall--“Buckskin Sam”.... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 22 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 178.)

  Imperfect: p. 1 mutilated.

BADGER, Joseph E. Old ’49; or, The amazon of Arizona. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1882. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 180.)

EYSTER, William R. Hands up; or, The knights of the canyon. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1882. 28 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no. 182.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Gilbert, the guide; or, Lost in the wilderness.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 27 p. illus. f^o. (no. 183.)

HALL, Samuel S. The black bravo; or, The Tonkaway’s triumph. A romance
of the Frio ranch. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1882. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 186.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The phantom Mazeppa; or, The hyena of the
chaparrals. A romance of love and adventure on the Nebraska plains. By
Major Dangerfield Burr [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 23
p. illus. f^o. (no. 188.)

HALL, Samuel S. The terrible Tonkaway; or, Old Rocky and his pards.
A wild tale of a wild Texan trail. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S.
Hall.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 191.)

MANNING, William H. Don Sombrero, the California road gent; or, The
three men of Mount Tabor. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1882. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 194.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The skeleton schooner; or, The skimmer of the sea.
A tale of buccaneering times on our southern coast. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1882. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 198.)

HALL, Samuel S. Diamond Dick, the dandy from Denver. A true story of
the mines of New Mexico. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 199.)

REID, Mayne. The rifle rangers; or, Adventures in southern Mexico. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 28 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no. 200.)

MANNING, William H. Cactus Jack, the giant guide; or, The masked
robbers of Black Bend. A story of New Mexico. By Captain Mark Wilton
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no.
202.)

HALL, Samuel S. Big Foot Wallace, the king of the lariat; or, Wild
Wolf, the Waco. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1882. 30 p. illus. 10. ed. f^o. (no. 204.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The gambler pirate; or, Bessie, the lady of the
lagoon.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 26 p. illus. f^o. (no. 205.)

  Companion story to his _The skeleton schooner_.

WHITTAKER, Frederick. One Eye, the cannoneer; or, Marshal Ney’s last
legacy. A story of the exile of St. Helena. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1882. 29 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 206.)

WARNE, Philip S. Old Hard Head; or, Whirlwind and his milk-white mare.
A tale of the Kioway country. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 29 p.
illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no. 207.)

WILLETT, Edward. Buck Farley, the bonanza prince; or, The romance of
Death Gulch. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 24 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o.
(no. 209.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Buccaneer Bess, the lioness of the sea; or, The red
sea trail. A romance of the Gulf of Mexico and its shores.... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1882. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 210.)

  Companion story to his _The skeleton schooner_ and _The gambler
  pirate_.

HALL, Samuel S. The Brazos tigers; or, The minute-men of Fort Belknap.
A tale of sport and peril in Texas. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S.
Hall.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 28 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no.
212.)

EYSTER, William R. The two cool sports; or, Gertie of the gulch. A
story of the hidden city. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 24 p. illus.
8. ed. f^o. (no. 214.)

HALL, Samuel S. The serpent of El Paso; or, Frontier Frank, the scout
of the Rio Grande. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1882. 22 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 217.)

REID, Mayne. The wild huntress; or, The big squatter’s vengeance. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1882. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 218.)

MANNING, William H. The Scorpion brothers; or, Mad Tom’s mission. By
Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 28 p.
illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no. 219.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The specter yacht; or, A brother’s crime. The
romance of a haunted heart and a havenless cruise. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1883. 26 p. illus. f^o. (no. 220.)

HALL, Samuel S. Desperate Duke, the Guadaloupe “galoot”; or, The angel
of the Alamo city. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1883. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 221.)

WILLETT, Edward. Bill, the blizzard; or, Red Jack’s double crime. A
story of the mystery of Tenspot Gulch. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883.
23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 222.)

MANNING, William H. Canyon Dave, the man of the mountain; or, The
toughs of Silver Spur. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1883. 29 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 223.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Black Beard, the buccaneer; or, The curse of the
coast. A romance of the Carolina waters a century ago. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1883. 28 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 224.)

HALL, Samuel S. Rocky Mountain Al; or, Nugget Nell, the waif of the
range. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1883. 23 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 225.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The mad hussars; or, The O’s and the Macs. A
story of four Irish soldiers of fortune. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1883. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 226.)

MANNING, William H. Buckshot Ben, the man-hunter of Idaho; or, The
Cactus Creek tragedy. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1883. 28 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 227.)

EYSTER, William R. Captain Cutsleeve; or, Touch-me-not, the little
sport. A romance of Glory Gulch. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 23 p.
illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 229.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The old boy of Tombstone; or, Wagering a life on a
card. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 29 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o. (no.
233.)

REID, Mayne. The hunters’ feast. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 28 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 234.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Red Lightning, the man of chance; or, Flush times
in Golden Gulch.... A romance of adventure and mystery in borderland.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 22 p. illus. f^o. (no. 235.)

  Companion story to his _The kid glove miner_.

MONSTERY, Thomas Hoyer. Champion Sam; or, The monarchs of the show. A
romance of the circus and prize-rings. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883.
29 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o. (no. 236.)

MANNING, William H. Long-haired Max; or, The black league of the coast.
A California mystery. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1883. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 237.)

MORRIS, Anthony P. Hank Hound, the Crescent City detective; or, The
owls of New Orleans. A strange life drama of the great city of the
south. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 22 p. illus. f^o. (no. 238.)

HALL, Samuel S. The terrible trio; or, The angel of the army. A romance
of the Lone Star state. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 30 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 239.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Spitfire Saul, king of the rustlers; or, Queen
Dixie’s grand “round-up.” New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 29 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 241.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The fog devil; or, The skipper of the Flash. A
story of the Gloucester trawlers. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 28 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 242.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Queen Helen, the amazon of the overland; or, The
ghouls of the gold mines. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 23 p. illus.
9. ed. f^o. (no. 246.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Alligator Ike; or, The secret of the Everglade. A
tale of the outlaws of the Okeechobee. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883.
28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 247.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Elephant Tom, of Durango; or, Your gold-dust or your
life. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 29 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no.
249.)

HALL, Samuel S. The rough riders; or, Sharp Eye, the Seminole scourge.
A tale of the chaparral. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 29 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 250.)

WARNE, Philip S. Tiger Dick vs. Iron Despard; or, Every man has his
match. An account of the “leetle diffikilty” at Fool’s Luck. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1883. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 251.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The Wall street blood; or, Tick Tick, the telegraph
girl. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 24 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no.
252.)

CURTIS, Newton Mallory. Giant Jake, the patrol of the mountain. A tale
of the Champlain hills. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 24 p. illus. 3.
ed. f^o. (no. 254.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The pirate priest; or, The planter gambler’s
daughter. A romance of mystery and adventure on the Gulf of Mexico half
a century ago. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no.
255.)

HALL, Samuel S. Double Dan, the dastard; or, The pirates of the Pecos.
By Major Sam S. Hall--“Buckskin Sam”.... New York: Beadle & Adams,
1883. 29 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 256.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Death-trap diggings; or, A hard man from ’way back.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 257.)

MANNING, William H. Bullet Head, the Colorado bravo; or, The prisoners
of the death-vault. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1883. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 258.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Cutlass and cross; or, The ghouls of the sea....
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 259.)

  Companion romance to his _The pirate priest_.

YARDS, Jo. Black Sam, the prairie thunderbolt; or, The bandit-hunters.
A tale of the southwest frontier. By Col. Jo Yards--“Virginia Jo.” New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 261.)

MANNING, William H. Iron-armed Abe, the hunchback destroyer; or, The
black riders’ terror. A tale of the city of the desert. By Captain Mark
Wilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 31 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 263.)

HALL, Samuel S. The crooked three; or, The black hearts of the
Guadalupe. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1883. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 264.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Old Double Sword; or, Pilots and pirates. A tale
of the omnipresent Yankee in far eastern seas. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1883. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 265.)

REID, Mayne. The white squaw. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 23 p.
illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 267.)

EYSTER, William R. Magic Mike, the man of frills; or, Bad Ben’s bad
brigade. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 268.)

HALL, Samuel S. The bayou bravo; or, The terrible trail. By Major Sam
S. Hall--“Buckskin Sam”.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1883. 27 p.
illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 269.)

MANNING, William H. Stonefist, of Big Nugget Bend; or, Old Ketchum’s
tug of war. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 271.)

HALL, Samuel S. Mountain Mose, the gorge outlaw; or, Light Horse Leon’s
five fights for life. By Major Sam S. Hall--“Buckskin Sam”.... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 273.)

WILLETT, Edward. Flush Fred, the Mississippi sport; or, Tough times in
Tennessee. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 23 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o.
(no. 274.)

MANNING, William H. Texas Chick, the southwest detective; or,
Tiger-Lily, the vulture queen. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o. (no. 276.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The Saucy Jane, privateer; or, The hunting of Old
Ironsides. A story of the war of 1812. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884.
27 p. illus. f^o. (no. 277.)

MANNING, William H. The gold-dragon; or, The California bloodhound. A
story of Po-8, the lone highwayman. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 31
p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 279.)

WARNE, Philip S. Black-Hoss Ben; or, Tiger Dick’s lone hand. A tale of
wild ranch life. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no.
280.)

HALL, Samuel S. The merciless marauders; or, Chaparral Carl’s revenge.
By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle & Adams,
1884. 23 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 282.)

MANNING, William H. Lightning Bolt, the canyon terror; or, The Mountain
Cat’s grudge. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 285.)

WILLETT, Edward. Flush Fred’s full hand; or, Life and strife in
Louisiana. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 289.)

MANNING, William H. Horseshoe Hank. the man of big luck; or, The gold
brick of Idaho. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 291.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Moke Horner, the boss roustabout; or, The fresh-water
sharks of the overflow. A romance of Mississippi river life. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1884. 29 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no. 292.)

HALL, Samuel S. Stampede Steve; or, The doom of the double face. By
“Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884.
28 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no. 293.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Broadcloth Burt, the Denver dandy; or, The
thirty pards of Deadwood. By Captain Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 294.)

MANNING, William H. Colorado Rube, the strong arm of Hotspur City; or,
The giant brothers of Buzzard’s roost. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884.
31 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 297.)

WILLETT, Edward. Logger Lem; or, Life and peril in the pine woods. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 298.)

WARNE, Philip S. Three of a kind. Tiger Dick, Iron Despard, and the
Sportive Sport. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no.
299.)

HALL, Samuel S. Bowlder Bill; or, The man from Taos. By “Buckskin
Sam”--Major Sam S. Hill.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 27 p.
illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no. 301.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Top Notch Tom, the cowboy outlaw; or, The
Satanstown election.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 28 p. illus. 5.
ed. f^o. (no. 303.)

  Sequel to his _Old Cross-Eye, the maverick-hunter_.

MANNING, William H. Silver-plated Sol, the Montana rover; or, Giant
Dave’s fight with himself. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 30 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no. 305.)

WILLETT, Edward. Hemlock Hank, tough and true; or, The shadow of Mount
Katahdin. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 308.)

HALL, Samuel S. Raybold, the rattling ranger; or, Old Rocky’s tough
campaign. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1884. 28 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 309.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The marshal of Satanstown; or, The league of the
cattle-lifters.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 27 p. illus. 5. ed.
f^o. (no. 310.)

  Sequel to his _Old Cross-Eye_ and _Top Notch Tom_.

MANNING, William H. Heavy Hand, the relentless; or, The marked men of
Paradise Gulch. By Captain Mark Wilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1884. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 311.)

MERRILL, James Milford. Kinkfoot Karl, the mountain scourge; or, Wiping
out the score. By Morris Redwing [pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1884. 29 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 312.)

MORRIS, Anthony P. Mark Magic, detective. A story of a beautiful
woman’s strange career. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 29 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 313.)

INGRAHAM, Joseph Holt. Lafitte; or, The pirate of the gulf. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1884. 29 p. illus. 10. ed. f^o. (no. 314.)

WILLETT, Edward. Flush Fred’s double; or, The squatters’ league of six.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 28 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o. (no. 315.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Frank Lightfoot, the miner detective. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1884. 28 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o. (no. 317.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The genteel spotter; or, The night hawks of New York:
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 22 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o. (no. 320.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. California Claude, the lone bandit, by Capt.
Howard Holmes [pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 5.
ed. f^o. (no. 321.)

MANNING, William H. Hotspur Hugh; or, The banded brothers of the
giant’s arm. [By] Capt. Mark Wilton [pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1884. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 323.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The whitest man in the mines; a story of the gold
fever. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 28 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no.
326.)

WILLETT, Edward. Terrapin Dick, the wild-wood detective; or, Trailing a
traitor. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 327.)

HALL, Samuel S. King Kent; or, The bandits of the bason [sic], by
Buckskin Sam [pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 23 p. illus. 2.
ed. f^o. (no. 328.)

MORRIS, Charles. Cop Colt, the Quaker City detective; or, A hound on
the wolves’ track. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 29 p. illus. 4. ed.
f^o. (no. 330.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Chispa Charley, the gold nugget sport; or, The Rocky
mountain masks.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 28 p. illus. 2. ed.
f^o. (no. 331.)

  Companion story to his _Old Forked-lightning_.

EYSTER, William R. Derringer Deck, the man with the drop; or, Colonel
Coldsteel and his lucky seven. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 30 p.
illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 333.

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Flash Dan, the nabob; or, The blades of
Bowie Bar. A story of the gold lands. By Captain H. Holmes [pseud.]....
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 29 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 335.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The magic ship. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 21
p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 336.)

WILLETT, Edward. Old Gabe, the mountain tramp; or, The tragedy of the
deserted camp. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 29 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o.
(no. 337.)

WARNE, Philip S. Jack Sand, the boss of the town; or, The fool of
fiddler’s folly. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 27 p. illus. f^o. (no.
338.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Spread Eagle Sam, the Hercules hide-hunter; a romance
of the buffalo range. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 29 p. illus. 3.
ed. f^o. (no. 339.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Cool Conrad, the Dakota detective; or, From
lair to lair. A tale of ’Frisco and the gold camps. By Capt. H. Holmes
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 30 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o.
(no. 340.)

MORRIS, Anthony P. The head hunter; or, Mark Magic in the mines. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 343.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Masked Mark, the mounted detective. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1885. 28 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 345.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Denver Duke, the man with “sand”; or,
Centipede Sam’s lone hand. By Captain Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 29 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 34.)

WILLETT, Edward. Dan Dillon, king of Crosscut; or, A woman’s wild work.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 29 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no. 348.)

COBB, Weldon J. Flash Falcon, the society detective. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1885. 23 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o. (no. 350.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Nor’-West Nick, the border detective; or, Dan Brown’s
fight for life. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 24 p. illus. 7. ed.
f^o. (no. 351.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The desperate dozen; or, The fair fiend of
the Coeur d’Alene. By Captain H. Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1885. 29 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o. (no. 352.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Red Richard; or, The brand of the crimson cross. A
romance of California mining life. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 22
p. illus. f^o. (no. 354.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The mad athlete; or, The worst pill in the box. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 28 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 355.)

EYSTER, William R. Three handsome sports; or, The double combination.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 26 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 356.)

HALL, Samuel S. The prince of Pan-out; or, The beautiful Navajo’s
mission. By “Buckskin Sam” (Maj. Sam S. Hall).... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1885. 22 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no. 358.)

WARNE, Philip S. Yellow Jack, the mestizo; or, Tiger Dick to the
rescue.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 30 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o.
(no. 359.)

  Sequel to his _Three of a kind_ and _Black-Hoss Ben_.

BADGER, Joseph E. Jumping Jerry, the gamecock from Sundown; or, A craw
full of sand. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no.
360.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. Tombstone Dick, the train pilot; or,
The traitor’s trail. A story of the Arizonian wilds. By Ned Buntline
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o.
(no. 361.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Keen Kennard, the Shasta shadow; or, The
branded face. A wild romance of the Sierras. By Capt. Howard Holmes
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 30 p. illus. 8. ed. f^o.
(no. 365.)

BADGER, Joseph E. A royal flush; or, Dan Brown’s big game of
freeze-out. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o.
(no. 367.)

WILLETT, Edward. The canyon king; or, A price on his head. A tale of
the Wahsatch range. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 30 p. illus. 4. ed.
f^o. (no. 368.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The coast corsair; or, Madcap Madge, the siren of
the sea.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1885. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 369.)

  Companion tale to his _The sea fugitive_.

BADGER, Joseph E. Captain Crisp, the man with a record. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 372.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. John Armstrong mechanic; or, From the bottom to
the top of the ladder. A story of how a man can rise in America. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 27 p. illus. f^o. (no. 378.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Dark Durg, the Ishmael of the hills; or, The gold
phantom. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no.
387.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. The giant cupid; or, Cibuta John’s great jubilee.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 390.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The lost bonanza; or, The boot of Silent
Hound. A tale of three millions. By Capt. Howard Holmes [pseud.]....
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 392.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Deadly Aim, the duke of Derringers; or, A fight for
five millions. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no.
395.)

CODY, William Frederick. The wizard brothers; or, White Beaver’s red
trail. By Buffalo Bill (Hon. Wm. F. Cody). New York: Beadle & Adams,
1886. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 397.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The new Monte Cristo; or, The wandering Jew of the
sea. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 399.)

EYSTER, William R. Snapshot Sam, the pistol sharp; or, The racket at
Angels’ Flat. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 29 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o.
(no. 402.)

WARNE, Philip S. Silver Riffle Sid; or, A “daisy” bluff. A California
romance. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 29 p. illus. 5. ed. f^o. (no.
404.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Old Pop Hicks, showman; or, Lion Charley’s luck.
A tale of circus rivalry. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 28 p. illus.
5. ed. f^o. (no. 406.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Captain Coldgrip’s nerve; or, Injun Nick on
deck. By Capt. Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams,
1886. 30 p. illus. 6. ed. f^o. (no. 407.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Rob Roy Ranch; or, The imps of the Pan-handle. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 409.)

DUMONT, Daniel Boone. The white crook; or, Old Hark’s fortress. A tale
of the Arizona raid. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1886. 30 p. illus. 5.
ed. f^o. (no. 411.)

---- The old river sport; or, A man of honor. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1886. 30 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o. (no. 420.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Blue Grass Burt, the gold star detective; or, To
duty bound--to vengeance sworn. A romance of the southland. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1886. 29 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 422.)

EYSTER, William R. Hair Trigger Tom of Red Bend; or, All wool, and a
yard wide. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 31 p. illus. 3. ed. f^o.
(no. 429.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The fatal frigate: or, Rivals in love and war. A
romance of ocean mysteries a century ago. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1887. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 430.)

WARNE, Philip S. Californy Kit, the always on hand; or, The mountain
rivals. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 431.)

JENKS, George Charles. The giant horseman; or, Tracking the red cross
gang. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 432.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Laughing Leo; or, Spread Eagle Sam’s dandy pard. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 433.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Lucifer Lynx, the wonder detective; or, A
cool hand among hot heads. A romance of the Red Divide. By Captain
Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 30 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 434.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The one armed buccaneer; or, The havenless
cruiser.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 435.)

  Companion story to his _The fatal frigate_.

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Kentucky Jean, the sport from Yellow Pine; or,
Blue-eyed Belle of Bended Bow. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 31 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 436.)

MANNING, William H. Deep Duke, the silent sleuth; or, The man of two
lives. The story of the ways and wiles of a wicked set. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1887. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 437.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Oklahoma Nick; or, Boomer Balt’s surprise party. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 438.)

DUMONT, Daniel Boone. Salamander Sam; or, The Swamp-Island renegades. A
tale of the everglades and jungles. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 31
p. illus. f^o. (no. 439.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The High Horse of the Pacific. A tale of western
Texas. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 27 p. illus. f^o. (no. 440.)

---- ---- New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 27 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no.
440.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The California sleuth; or, The trail of the
gold grandee. A story of Shasta. By Capt. Howard Holmes [pseud.]....
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 441.)

MANNING, William H. Wild West Walt, the mountain veteran; or, The
gunmakers of World’s End. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 31 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 442.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Ocean Ogre, the outcast corsair; or, The good ship
of ill-omen. A romance of piracy.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 28
p. illus. f^o. (no. 446.)

  Companion story to his _The fatal frigate_ and _The one-armed
  buccaneer_.

MANNING, William H. Bluff Burke, king of the Rockies; or, The black
stake rivals. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1887. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no.
449.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Captain Coldgrip’s long trail; or, The
rivals of Silver Deck. By Capt. Howard Holmes [pseud.]. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1887. 29 p. illus. 4. ed. f^o. (no. 453.)

LEWIS, Leon. Captain Ready, the red ransomer; or, Nick Peddie’s wild
west inheritance. The romance of Dead Man’s Ranch. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1888. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 484.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Sunshine Sam, chip of the old block; or, The
silent trail of the silent six. A romance of no-gold land. By Capt.
Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1888. 31 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 487.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The Lone Hand in Texas; or, The red-gloved raiders of
the Rio Grande. A tale of wild life on the southwestern border. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1888. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 490.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Twilight Charlie, the road sport; or, Sulphur Sam’s
double. A romance of the wild lands of the Yampah. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1888. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 499.)

WARNE, Philip S. Bareback Buck, the centaur of the plains; or, The
trail of six. A romance of spur, saddle and trains. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1888. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 502.)

EYSTER, William R. The dude from Denver; or, The game at Ground Hog.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1888. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 503.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Solemn Saul, the sad man from San Saba; or, The big
shell out. A romance of the end of the road. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1888. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 504.)

DUMONT, Daniel Boone. Topnotch Tim, the mad parson; or, The bad men
of the basin. The romance of a wilderness layout. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1888. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 508.)

HALL, Samuel S. Paint Pete, the prairie patrol; or, The rival
rancheros. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1888. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 511.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Captain Velvet’s big stake; or, The gold
goths of No Man’s Ground. A romance of Shasta. By Captain Howard Holmes
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1888. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no.
512.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Gabe Gunn, the grizzly from Ginseng; or, Solemn
Saul’s seraph. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1888. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no.
514.)

OSBON, John W. Royal Richard, the thoroughbred; or, Long Pete Jenkins’s
convoy. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1888. 29 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no.
518.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The Lone Hand on the Caddo; or, The bad man of the big
bayou. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1888. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 520.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Dandy Andy, the diamond detective; or, The twins of
Tip-Top. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1888. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 527.)

SIMS, A. K. Huckleberry, the foot hills detective; or, The rival
ranchmen. A romance of the great Colorado ranges. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1888. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 528.)

EYSTER, William R. Oregon, the sport with a scar; or, The best men of
Brace Box. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 533.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Dandy Dutch, the decorator from Dead-Lift; or, Saul
Sunday’s search for glory. By Joseph E. Badger, jr.... New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1889. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 535.)

---- Major Magnet, the man of nerve; or, The Muck-a-mucks of Animas.
A romance of the Silver range. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 28 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 541.)

PATTEN, William G. Hustler Harry, the cowboy sport; or, Daring Dan
Shark’s general delivery. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 30 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 545.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The buried detective; or, Saul Sunday’s six
sensations. An over-the-range romance. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889.
29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 547.)

EYSTER, William R. Belshazzar Brick, the bailiff of Blue Blazes; or,
Four Horse Frank’s frolic at Bad Luck Bar. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1889. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 549.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Silk Hand, the Mohave ferret, or, The marked
man of Arizona. By Captain Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1889. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 550.)

MANNING, William H. Garry Kean, the man with backbone; or, The
gladiators of Jack’s Delight. A story of the Idaho mines. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1889. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 551.)

SIMS, A. K. Prince Primrose, the flower of the flock; or, The grand
coup at Paradise Gulch. A romance of silverland. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1889. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 552.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Grip-sack Sid, the sample sport; or, The rivals of
Rack-about Range. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 30 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 555.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. The mountain graybeards; or, Old Riddles’s greatest
riddle. The story of a town with a mystery. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1889. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 557.)

EYSTER, William R. Hurrah Harry, the high-horse from Halcyon; or, High
old times at Hard Pan. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 28 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 558.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Lone Hand, the shadow; or, The master of the Triangle
Ranch. A romance of the Wichita country. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1889. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 562.)

MANNING, William H. Wyoming Zeke, the hotspur of Honeysuckle; or, Old
Humility’s hard road to travel. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 29 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 563.)

WARNE, Philip S. Captain Midnight, the man of craft: or, The
road-knight’s plot. A romance of the Cony Flat rivals. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1889. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 567.)

EYSTER, William R. The dude detective; or, Phelim McGallagin’s hard
luck hustle. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no.
568.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Captain Cobra, the hooded mystery; or, The
quickened dead. A romance of the Santa Barbara hills. By Captain Howard
Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 27 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 569.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Silver-tongued Sid; or, The grip-sack sharp’s clean
sweep. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 576.)

EYSTER, William R. Seven Shot Steve; or, Dan Garland’s great clean-up.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1889. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 578.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The Silver Sharp detective; or, The big rustle at XL
ranch. A story of Wyoming. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 29 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 586.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Captain Sid, the Shasta ferret; or, The
rivals of Sunset. The romance of the Rattlesnake mine. By Captain
Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 31 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 592.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Fire Face, the silver king’s foe; or, The mysterious
highwayman. A tale of Colorado. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 29 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 594.)

MANNING, William H. Rustler Rube, the round-up detective; or, The
Bighorn valley double disaster. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 27 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 596.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Big Bandy, the brigadier of Brimstone Butte; or,
The secrets of the hollow hill. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 30 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 597.)

EYSTER, William R. Desert Alf, the man with the cougar; or, The strange
pilgrimage of Gentle Jack. The romance of Estacado desert kingdom. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 603.)

DUNBAR, Noel. The detective in rags. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 32
p. illus. f^o. (no. 604.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Old Benzine, the hard case detective; or, Joe Bowers’
racket at Ricaree City. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 29 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 607.)

MANNING, William H. Alkali Abe, the game-chicken from Texas; or, The
smash-up in “No-world kingdom.” A romance of the unexplored range. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 611.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Sheriff Stillwood, the regulator of Raspberry; or,
The “suspects” from Frisco. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 28 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 612.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Keen Billy, the sport; or, The circus at White Gopher.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 613.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The gripsack sharp’s even-up; or, The boss racket at
Solid City. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 30 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o.
(no. 617.)

SIMS, A. K. Kansas Karl, the detective king; or, The sphinx of
Leadville. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 618.)

COOMES, Oll. Kit Bandy and Co., the border detectives. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1890. 29 p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no. 619.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. The red privateer, by Ned Buntline
[pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 621.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Ducats Dion, the nabob sport detective; or, The
sealed secret of the copper coffin. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 28
p. illus. 2. ed. f^o. (no. 626.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Mossback Mose, the mountaineer; or, The bald hornet
of the Ozarks. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no.
627.)

LEWIS, Leon. Daredeath Dick, the king of the cowboys. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1890. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 629.)

PATTEN, William G. Colonel Cool, the Santa Fe sharp; or, The lucky
pards of Goodenough. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 29 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 631.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. The sea spy, by Ned Buntline [pseud.]. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 633.)

EYSTER, William R. Old Handcart’s big dump; or, The rakestraw
ructionist. A romance of the league at Hard Luck. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1890. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 634.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Dandy Darling, detective; or, The boomers of Big
Buffalo. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1890. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 636.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Joe Phenix in Crazy Camp; or, The great detective’s
long chase. A romance of the Little Colorado. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1891. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 637.)

MANNING, William H. Murdock, the dread detective; or, North-land Nick’s
guardianship. A story of the Jacob’s ladder tragedy. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 638.)

PATTEN, William G. Aztec Jack, the desert nomad; or, The vultures’
swoop. A story of astonishing adventures in the buried city of northern
Arizona. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 641.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Red pard and yellow; or, The nabobs of
Centipede. A romance of Arizona mines and Arizona vengeance. By Captain
Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 31 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 642.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Gopher Gabe, the unseen detective; or, The uncanny
ranch. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 645.)

MANNING, William H. Dark John, the grim guard; or, Hailstorm’s north
plains braves. A romance of Montana. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30
p. illus. f^o. (no. 646.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The Fresh of Frisco at Santa Fé. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1891. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 647.)

PATTEN, William G. Goldglove Gid, the man of grit; or, Desperate Durg’s
desperate scheme. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 648.)

EYSTER, William R. Lucky Lester’s lone hand; or, Uncle Bedrock’s queer
game at Ginger Flat. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 29 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 650.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Silver-tip Steve, the sky scraper from Siskiyou; or,
The secrets of the skull. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 651.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Jackson Blake, the bouncer detective; or, The Fresh of
’Frisco’s rustle at Painted City. The romance of a bu’sted camp. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 652.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The lasso king’s league; or, The tigers of Texas. A
romance of heroes in Buckskin.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 28 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 653.)

  Companion story to his _Buck Taylor, the saddle king_.

PATTEN, William G. Old Plug Ugly, the rough and ready; or, The last
stroke of the land sharks. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 29 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 656.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. Long Tom, the privateer, by Ned Buntline
[pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 657.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The cowboy clan; or, The tigress of Texas. A
romance of Buck Taylor and his boys in buckskin.... New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1891. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 658.)

  Companion story to his _The lasso king_.

EYSTER, William R. Gilt-edge Johnny; or, Roldan and his rovers. The
story of the “Ranch accursed.” New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 659.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The Fresh in Montana; or, Jackson Blake’s full hand at
Hardtack. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 660.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The get-there sharp; or, Grip-sack Sid at Rocky
Comfort. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 661.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The Jew detective. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891.
27 p. illus. f^o. (no. 662.)

PATTEN, William G. The giant sport; or, Sold to Satan. A romance of
the Devil’s mountains, Arizona. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 663.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Solemn Saul’s luck streak; or, The boomer from
Blissful Buttes. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no.
668.)

PATTEN, William G. Old True Blue, the trusty; or, The marauder of the
Mimbres. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 669.)

SIMS, A. K. Stuttering Sam, the whitest sport of Santa Fe; or, How the
hummer from Hummingbird feathered his nest. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1891. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 673.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Steel Surry, the sport from Sunrise; or, The blind
deal at Breakneck. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 31 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 675.)

PATTEN, William G. Hurricane Hal, the cowboy hotspur; or, Old True
Blue’s pilgrimage in Satan’s section. A romance of the Red Spur
ranch.... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 676.)

  Companion story to his _Old True Blue, the trusty_.

EYSTER, William R. Mr. Jackson, the gent from Jaybird; or, The mystery
of the lower drift. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 31 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 677.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The dude desperado; or, The baleful beauty
of Brimstone Bar. By Captain Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 678.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Buffalo Bill’s secret service trail, by Major
Dangerfield Burr [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 27 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 682.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Bob Breeze, the rounder detective; or, The eruption
at Eureka. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 683.)

EYSTER, William R. Double Cinch Dan, the sport with a charm; or, The
saints of Sunrise. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891. 30 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 687.)

SIMS, A. K. The river rustlers; or, The detective from ’Way-back. A
romance of ranch, range and revolution. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1891.
31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 688.)

PATTEN, William G. The sparkler sharp; or, The spotter sport’s unknown
foe. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 689.)

MANNING, William H. Dead Shot Paul, the deep-range explorer; or, The
mountain spy’s vendetta. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 30 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 692.)

SIMS, A. K. Singer Sam, the pilgrim detective; or, Behind masked
batteries. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 695.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Silver Steve, the branded sport; or, The
man-mystery of Moonstone. By Captain Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 701.)

MANNING, William H. Spokane Saul, the Samaritan suspect; or, The double
twist at Camp Sahara. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 31 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 703.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Bantam Bob, the beauty from Butte. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1892. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 705.)

EYSTER, William R. The rival rovers; or, Uncle Bedrock’s big break. A
romance of Paddy’s Flat. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 30 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 707.)

SIMS, A. K. Lodestone Lem, the champion of Chestnut Burr; or, The
Alcatraz millions. A romance of Nevada. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892.
31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 709.)

MANNING, William H. Gabe Gall, the gambolier from Great Hump; or,
Corralling half the town. A romance of Shadow Shaft. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1892. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 714.)

EYSTER, William R. Uncle Bedrock’s big bounce; or, The bad men of
Mineral Bar. A romance of Sunken river. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892.
30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 718.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The secret six; or, Old Halcyon, the stranger within
the gates. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 720.)

SIMS, A. K. Teamster Tom, the boomer detective; or, The sweepstake
at Shoshone. A romance of the Black Hills region. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1892. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 723.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Dick Talbot in No Man’s camp. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1892. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 725.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Buffalo Bill’s body guard; or, The still hunt of
the hills. The story of the “robber of the ranges.” New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1892. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 727.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Dick Talbot’s clean cut. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1892. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 729.)

DUNBAR, Noel. Duke Despard, the gambler duellist. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1892. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 730.)

KNOX, Jackson. The hurricane detective; or, Through thick and thin. A
romance of the toils and meshes of the great city. By Jackson Knox,
“Old Hawk.” New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no.
732.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Dick Talbot, the ranch king. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1892. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 733.)

---- Talbot in Apache land; or, Dick Buckskin, the man of mettle. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 737.)

KNOX, Jackson. Captain Clew, the fighting detective; or, Against
terrible odds. A romance of the wolves of New York. By Jackson Knox,
“Old Hawk.” New York: Beadle & Adams, 1892. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 740.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Dick Talbot’s close call; or, The cowboy dead-shot.
Ranch king Talbot in arms. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1893. 28 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 741.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Buffalo Bill’s flush hand; or, Texas Jack’s bravos.
A romance of the pard rivals on the Texas border. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1893. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 743.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Sweep-stakes Sam, the silver sport; or, Major Hold-up
shows his hand. A romance of the twin lodes of Silverado. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1893. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 744.)

POWELL, Frank. The dragoon detective; or, A man of destiny. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1893. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 746.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Arizona Charlie, the crack shot detective. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1893. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 748.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Gideon’s grip at Babylon Bar; or, The man with the
iron dagger. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1893. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no.
753.)

PATTEN, William G. Old Burke, the Madison Square detective. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1893. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 756.)

OSBON, John W. The sport from St. Louis; or, The three sharks of Big
Ledge. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1893. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 759.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Dandy Don, the Denver detective. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1893. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 763.)

EYSTER, William R. The sport of Silver Bend; or, The man with the black
mask. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1893. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 767.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Prince John, detective special. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1893. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 771.)

AIKEN, Albert W. King Dandy, the silver sport. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1893. 27 p. illus. f^o. (no. 775.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Silk Ribbon’s crush-out; or, The three
king-pins of Crossbar. By Capt. Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1893. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 779.)

LEWIS, Leon. The down-east detective in Nevada; or, The sons of
thunder. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1893. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 785.)

---- Pistol Tommy, the miner sharp; or, The Bobtail bonanza. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1894. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 797.)

WARNE, Philip S. Dan Dirk, king of No Man’s land; or, Lightning
George’s last card. The Frisco detective’s block game. New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1894. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 802.)

SIMS, A. K. The king-pin of the Leadville lions; or, Hepburn, the dude
detective from London. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1894. 32 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 804.)

PATTEN, William G. Fire-eye, the thugs’ terror; or, Cockney Bob’s big
bluff. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1894. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 810.)

EYSTER, William R. Gentleman Dave, the dead game sport. New York:
Beadle & Adams, 1894. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 818.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Fresh, the race-track sport; or, Kentucky sharpers
brought to bay. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1894. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no.
825.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Shadowing the London detective; or, Harvey
Hawk’s short-stop. By Capt. Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle
& Adams, 1894. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 831.)

SIMS, A. K. Gid Gale’s block game; or, Old Silvertip’s tie-up at
Tangled Pine. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1894. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no.
832.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The wild steer riders; or, Texas Jack’s terrors.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1894. 28 p. illus. f^o. (no. 834.)

---- Buffalo Bill’s redskin ruse; or, Texas Jack’s death-shot. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1895. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 845.)

EYSTER, William R. The stranger sport’s shake-up, or, Red-hot Rube’s
racket at Red Bend. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1895. 31 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 852.)

BADGER, Joseph E. High-water Mark, the sport; or, Silver-tip Sid, the
dead-center shot. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1895. 29 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 870.)

---- The man of muscle; or, The spotter sport’s neck-tie party. New
York: Beadle & Adams, 1895. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 884.)

SIMS, A. K. The Texan detective; or, The stranger sport from Spokane.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1895. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 887.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Kent Keen, the crook-crusher; or, The man
from Spokane in New York. The story of the dead-game detective’s
round-up. By Capt. Howard Holmes [pseud.].... New York: Beadle & Adams,
1895. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 896.)

SIMS, A. K. The six-shot spotter; or, Babylon Bill, the high-roller
from Brimstone Bar. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1895. 32 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 897.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Silky Steele, the stay-in sport. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1896. 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 898.)

---- Old Sobersides, the detective of St. Louis; or, The crook-league.
New York: Beadle & Adams, 1896. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 928.)

MANNING, William H. Frisco Frank at Glory Gulch; or, Wiping out the
gold-dusters’ gang. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1896. 32 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 931.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The sport from Hard-Luck; or, Bummer Billy’s bluff.
A story of the Touchstone mine at Breakneck. New York: Beadle & Adams,
1896. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 945.)

LEWIS, Leon. Wind River Clark, the gold hermit. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1897. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 967.)

CODY, William Frederick. The dread shot four; or, My pards of the
plains, by Buffalo Bill [pseud.]. New York: Beadle & Adams, 1897. 31 p.
illus. f^o. (no. 973.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Overland Kit; or, The idyl of White Pine. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1897. 23 p. illus. f^o. (no. 976.)

---- Injun Dick; or, The death shot of Shasta. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1897. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 996.)

=Beadle’s dime novels.= no. 1-2, 5-11, 15-19, 22-23, 25, 27-31, 33-37,
39-42, 44-47, 50, 53-54, 56, 61-62, 64-65, 67-68, 71, 73, 83, 85,
87-88, 90-91, 98, 101, 104, 107-108, 113, 116, 121, 134, 142, 172, 174,
176, 180, 217, 233, 236, 257, 261, 266, 274, 279, 290, 294, 299, 302.

  Other ed. of no. 8, 15, 39, 45.

STEPHENS, Ann Sophia Winterbotham. Malaeska: the Indian wife of the
white hunter. New York: I. P. Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 128 p. front.
16^o. (no. 1.)

CAVENDISH, Harry. The privateer’s cruise, and the bride of Pomfret
Hall. New York: I. P. Beadle and Co. [cop. 1860.] 128 p. 16^o. (no. 2.)

  At head of title: A sea tale of ’76.

BARKER, Colin. The golden belt; or, The Carib’s pledge. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1860.] 125 p. front. 16^o. (no. 5.)

DENISON, Mary Andrews. Chip, the cave-child. New York: Beadle and Co.
[cop. 1860.] 128 p. front. 16^o. (no. 6.)

CAVENDISH, Harry. The reefer of ’76; or, The cruise of the Fire-fly.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1860.] 128 p. front. 16^o. (no. 7.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Seth Jones; or, The captives of the frontier.
New York: I. P. Beadle and Co. [cop. 1860.] 123 p. front. 16^o. (no. 8.)

---- ---- New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1860.] 123 p. front. 16^o.
(no. 8.)

HALL, William Jared. The slave sculptor; a tale of the Aztecs. London:
Beadle and Co. [1860.] 128 p. front. 16^o. (no. 9.)

VICTOR, Metta Victoria Fuller. The backwoods bride. A romance of
squatter life. New York: I. P. Beadle and Co. [cop. 1860.] 127 p.
front. 16^o. (no. 10.)

DENISON, Mary Andrews. The prisoner of La Vintresse; or, The fortunes
of a Cuban heiress. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1860.] 99 p. illus.
16^o. (no. 11.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The frontier angel; a romance of Kentucky
rangers’ life. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 126 p., 1 pl.
16^o. (no. 15.)

---- ---- London: Beadle and Co. [1861.] 128 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 15.)

VICTOR, Metta Victoria Fuller. Uncle Ezekiel and his exploits on two
continents. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 123 p., 1 pl. 16^o.
(no. 16.)

FLEMING, May Agnes Early. Madge Wylde, the young man’s ward; or, Lights
and shadows of orphan life. By the author of “Clifton,” “Pride and
passion,” etc. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 99 p., 1 pl. 16^o.
(no. 17.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Nathan Todd; or, The fate of the Sioux’
captive. London: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 122 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no.
18.)

DUGANNE, Augustine Joseph Hickey. Massasoit’s daughter; or, The French
captives. A romance of aboriginal New-England. New York: Beadle and Co.
[1861.] 120 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 19.)

IRON, N. C. The maid of Esopus; or, The trials and triumphs of the
revolution. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o.
(no. 22.)

TRASK, Kate Nichols. Winifred Winthrop; or, The lady of Atherton Hall.
By Clara Augusta [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 91 p.,
1 pl. 16^o. (no. 23.)

DUGANNE, Augustine Joseph Hickey. The peon prince; or, The Yankee
knight-errant. A tale of modern Mexico. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1861.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 25.)

IRON, N. C. Stella. the daughter of liberty. A tale of the war of ’76.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 27.)

BUSTEED, N. William. King Barnaby; or, The maidens of the forest, a
romance of the Mickmacks. London: Beadle and Co. [1862.] 94 p. 16^o.
(no. 28.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The forest spy; a tale of the War of 1812.
London: Beadle and Co. [1861.] 110 p. 16^o. (no. 29.)

DUGANNE, Augustine Joseph Hickey. Putnam Pomfret’s ward; or, A
Vermonter’s adventures in Mexico. New York: Beadle and Co. [1861.] 95
p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 30.)

IRON, N. C. The double hero. A tale of sea and land, during the War of
1812. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 98 p. 16^o. (no. 31.)

VICTOR, Metta Victoria Fuller. Maum Guinea, and her plantation
“children”; or, Holiday-week on a Louisiana estate. A slave romance.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 215 p. illus. 16^o. (no. 33.)

DENISON, Mary Andrews. Ruth Margerie: a romance of the revolt of 1689.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 111 p. 16^o. (no. 34.)

BARRITT, Frances Fuller. East and west; or, The beauty of Willard’s
Mill. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 109 p. 16^o. (no. 35.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The riflemen of the Miami. New York: Beadle
and Co. [cop. 1862.] 98 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 36.)

IRON, N. C. Gideon Godbold; a tale of Arnold’s treason. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 115 p. 16^o. (no. 37.)

BARRITT, Frances Fuller. The land claim. A tale of the upper Missouri.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 99 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 39.)

  Also published with title _Alicia Newcome_.

---- Alicia Newcome; or, The land claim; a tale of the upper Missouri.
London: Beadle and Co. [1862.] 123 p. 16^o. (no. 39.)

  Also published with title _The land claim_.

VICTOR, Metta Victoria Fuller. The Unionist’s daughter: a tale of the
rebellion in Tennessee. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 223 p., 1
pl. 16^o. (no. 40.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The hunter’s cabin: an episode Of the early
settlements of southern Ohio. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 96
p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 41.)

DUGANNE, Augustine Joseph Hickey. The king’s man; a tale of South
Carolina in revolutionary times. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.]
99 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 42.)

IRON, N. C. Agnes Falkland: a story of continental times. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 128 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 44.)

STEPHENS, Ann Sophia Winterbotham. Esther: a story of the Oregon trail.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 128 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 45.)

---- ---- New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1863.] 128 p., 1 pl. 16^o.
(no. 45.)

WARNER, John S. The wreck of the Albion. A tale of the sea. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 96 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 46.)

DENISON, Mary Andrews. Tim Bumble’s charge; or, Mrs. Lattison’s one
great sorrow. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1862.] 103 p., 1 pl. 16^o.
(no. 47.)

WARNER, John S. The black ship. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1863.]
102 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 50.)

FLEMING, May Agnes Early. Hates and loves; or, The lesson of four
lives. By the author of “Madge Wylde.” New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1863.] 112 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 53.)

VICTOR, Metta Victoria Fuller. Myrtle, the child of the prairie. New
York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1863.] 96 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 54.)

STEPHENS, Ann Sophia Winterbotham. Ahmo’s plot; or, The governor’s
Indian child. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1863.] 119 p., 1 pl. 16^o.
(no. 56.)

THOMAS, Henry J. Laughing Eyes: a tale of the Natchez. London: Beadle
and Co. [1864.] 95 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 61.)

IRON, N. C. The unknown: a tale of 1777. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1863.] 111 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 62.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The rangers of the Mohawk: a tale of Cherry
valley. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1863.] 96 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no.
64.)

THOMAS, Henry J. The wrecker’s prize. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1864.] 110 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 65.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Indian Jim: a tale of the Minnesota massacre.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1864.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 67.)

PAULDING, Decatur. The brigantine; or, Admiral Lowe’s last cruise. New
York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1864.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 68.)

  At head of title: A tale of 1673.

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The lost trail: a legend of the far west. New
York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1864.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 71.)

HAZLETON, Harry. The Silver Bugle; or, The Indian maiden of St. Croix.
London: Beadle and Co., 1865. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 73.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The golden harpoon; or, Lost among the floes. A story
of the whaling grounds. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1865.] 95 p., 1
pl. 16^o. (no. 83.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The fugitives; or, The Quaker scout of
Wyoming. A tale of the massacre of 1778. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1865.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 85.)

STARBUCK, Roger. On the deep; or, The missionary’s daughter. A story of
the Pacific ocean. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1865.] 100 p., 1 pl.
16^o. (no. 87.)

DENISON, Mary Andrews. Captain Molly; or, The fight at Trenton,
Christmas, 1776. A story of the revolution. New York: Beadle and Co.
[cop. 1865.] 99 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 88.)

STARBUCK, Roger. Cast away; or, The island bride. A romance of the
“enchanted isles.” New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1866.] 100 p., 1 pl.
16^o. (no. 90.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. The lost cache. A tale of hid treasure. New
York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1866.] 100 p. illus. 16^o. (no. 91.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Ruth Harland; or, The maid of Weathersfield. By
W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1866.] 93
p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 98.)

BOWEN, James L. The maid of Wyoming; or, The contest of the clans. New
York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1866.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 101.)

PORTER, Ann Emerson. Guilty or not guilty; or, The ordeal of fire. A
tale of thirty years ago. New York: Beadle and Co.) [cop. 1866.] 100
p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 104.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The peddler spy; or, Dutchmen and Yankees. A
tale of the capture of Good Hope. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New
York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1866.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 107.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The lost ship; or, The cruise for a shadow. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1866.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 108.)

SHERWOOD, Scott R. Rattlepate; or, The missing deed. A legend of
Manhattan in colony times. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1866.] 100
p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 113.)

STARBUCK, Roger. Port at last; or, A cruise for honor. New York: Beadle
and Co. [cop. 1867.] 99 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 116.)

SHERWOOD, Scott R. The vailed benefactress; or, The rocking stone
mystery. A legend of the Maryland coast. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1867.] 93 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 121.)

STARBUCK, Roger. Foul-weather Jack; or, The double wreck. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1867.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 134.)

SMITH, Elizabeth Oakes Prince. The Sagamore of Saco.... New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1868.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 142.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Despard, the spy; or, The fall of Montreal. By
W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1869.] 97
p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 172.)

ST. JOHN, Percy Bolingbroke. Queen of the woods; or, The Shawnee
captives. A romance of the Ohio. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1868.]
129 p. 16^o. (no. 174.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. The trader spy; or, The victim of the fire-raft.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1869.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 176.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Giant Pete, the patriot; or, The champion of
the swamps. A romance of old ’76. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New
York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1869.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 180.)

---- Mountain Gid, the free ranger; or, The bandit’s daughter. By W. J.
Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1870.] 98 p., 1
pl. 16^o. (no. 217.)

CALDWELL, J. R. The privateer’s bride; or, The Channel scud. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1871.] 98 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 233.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The ice-fiend; or, The hunted whalemen. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1871.] 98 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 236.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Old Avoirdupois; or, Steel Coat, the Apache
terror. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1872.] 100 p. 16^o. (no. 257.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Red Dan, the ranger; or, The league of three. A tale
of colonial times. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 102 p. 16^o.
(no. 261.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Wild Rube, the young trail-hunter; or, The
scouts of Bradstreet. A romance of the Onondaga. By W. J. Hamilton
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 99 p. 16^o. (no.
266.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The sea king; or, The two corvettes. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 274.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The girl captain; or, The reprisal of blood. A tale
of feud, vengeance and blood. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873].
102 p. 16^o. (no. 279.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Captain of captains; or, “The broom of the seas.” A
story of the Moorish corsairs. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873].
96 p. 16^o. (no. 290.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The rival rovers; or, The Flying Wake. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 92 p. 16^o. (no. 294.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Mossfoot, the brave; or, The fat scout of
Oneida lake. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1873]. 94 p. 16^o. (no. 299.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The Cuban conspirator; or, The island league. A
romance of Cuba and Cuban waters. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1874]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 302.)

=Beadle’s dime pocket joke book.= no. 1-2. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1875]. illus. 16^o.

  no. 1 has title: The dime pocket joke book. no. 2: Jim Crow joke book.

=Beadle’s dime song book....= A collection of new and popular comic and
sentimental songs. no. 3, 10, 12, 14, 17, 22-28. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1859-71]. 16^o.

  no. 10, 12, 24-25 have imprint: New York: Beadle & Co.

  Words only.

  no. 3, 10, 12, 14, 17 have no special title.

  no. 22 has title: The Fifth avenue songster; no. 23: The velocipede
  belle songster; no. 24: Mistress Jinks burlesque songster; no. 25:
  The nobby fellow’s songster; no. 26: The gay young clerk songster;
  no. 27: The heathen Chinee songster; no. 28: Girls, don’t fool with
  Cupid, songster.

=Beadle’s dime speaker.= no. 1-5, 7-13, 16-20, 24. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1861-88]. 16^o.

  no. 1, 10, 13 have imprint: New York: Beadle and Co.; no. 12, 17, 24
  have imprint: New York: M. J. Ivers & Co.

  Another ed. of no. 1 with imprint: New York: I. P. Beadle & Co.

  Another ed. of no. 2.

  no. 1 has title: Beadle’s dime American speaker; no. 2: Beadle’s
  dime national speaker; no. 3: Beadle’s dime patriotic speaker; no.
  4: Beadle’s dime comic speaker; no. 5: Beadle’s dime elocutionist;
  no. 7: Beadle’s dime standard speaker; no. 8: Beadle’s dime stump
  speaker; no. 9: The dime juvenile speaker; no. 10: Beadle’s dime
  spread-eagle speaker; no. 11: The dime debater, and chairman’s guide;
  no. 12: The dime exhibition speaker; no. 13: The dime school speaker;
  no. 16: The dime youth’s speaker and reform orator; no. 17: The dime
  eloquent speaker; no. 18: The dime Hail Columbia speaker; no. 19:
  Beadle’s dime serio-comic speaker; no. 20: The dime select speaker;
  no. 24: Dime book of recitations and readings.

=Beadle’s dime union song book=: comprising new and popular patriotic
songs for the times. no. [1]-2. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.]
16^o.

  Words only.

=Beadle’s dime year book and almanac= ... 1866. New York: Beadle and
Co. [1866.] 16^o.

=Beadle’s 15 ct. novels.= no. 21-22.

STEPHENS, Ann Sophia Winterbotham. Sybil Chase; or, The valley ranche.
A tale of California life. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 117
p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 21.)

IRON, N. C. The maid of Esopus; or, The trials and triumphs of the
revolution. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 126 p., 1 pl. 16^o.
(no. 22.)

=Beadle’s half dime library.= no. 8, 21-22, 29, 32-33, 37, 43, 45,
50, 53-54, 56-59, 61-62, 65, 67, 70, 72-73, 76, 78-82, 85-86, 93,
96-97, 99, 105, 107-108, 112-115, 118-120, 123-124, 131-132, 135-137,
139-141, 151, 153, 155, 158, 160, 162-164, 166-175, 177-178, 181-182,
184-186, 188, 190-195, 198, 202-204, 207, 210-211, 214-216, 218,
222, 224, 227-228, 230-231, 233-234, 236-244, 246-248, 251, 253-258,
260-261, 265-267, 271, 275, 278-279, 283, 288, 292-295, 297, 300,
302, 304, 306-308, 310-311, 313-314, 316-319, 326-327, 329, 331-337,
340, 343-345, 348-350, 354-355, 357-358, 360-361, 366, 368-369, 373,
375-376, 378, 380-381, 385-386, 388, 390-392, 395-396, 398-399, 401,
406, 409, 411, 416-418, 420, 422-425, 431, 435, 440, 445, 455, 467,
469-470, 473, 475, 478, 484, 489, 495, 497-499, 502, 512-514, 517-519,
521, 527-528, 531-532, 537-539, 542-543, 546-547, 553, 558, 562, 574,
576, 594, 599, 601-602, 607, 617, 623, 645, 653, 658, 676, 682, 687,
700, 705, 714, 718, 721, 723, 729, 737, 739, 748-751, 768, 773-775,
786, 789, 791, 796, 800-801, 804-806, 820, 827, 832, 836-837, 843, 848,
851, 857, 866-867, 892, 901, 923, 929, 931, 937, 942, 948, 955, 961,
989, 1002, 1015, 1025, 1029, 1033, 1035, 1038, 1043, 1056-1057, 1065,
1067.

  Beginning with no. 1038 the series is called The half dime library.

  Other ed. of no. 8, 355, 495.

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Seth Jones; or, The captives of the frontier.
New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1877. 16 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 8.)

---- ---- New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1877. 16 p. illus. 7. ed.
4^o. (no. 8.)

---- The frontier angel. A romance of Kentucky rangers’ life. New York:
Beadle and Adams, cop. 1877. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 21.)

LEWIS, Juan. The sea serpent; or, The boy Robinson Crusoe. New York:
Beadle and Adams, cop. 1877. 12 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 22.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The dumb page; or, The doge’s daughter. New York:
Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 29.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Bob Woolf, the border ruffian; or, The girl
dead-shot. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 20 p. illus. 12. ed.
4^o. (no. 32.)

PEARCE, Samuel W. The ocean bloodhound; or, The red pirates of the
Caribbees. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 16 p. illus. 6. ed.
4^o. (no. 33.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The hidden lodge; or, The little hunter of
the Adirondacks. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 15 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 37.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Dick Darling, the pony express rider. New York:
Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 43.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Old Avalanche, the great annihilator; or, Wild Edna,
the girl brigand. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 18 p. illus.
13. ed. 4^o. (no. 45.)

LASALLE, Charles E. Burt Bunker, the trapper. A tale of the north-west
hunting-grounds. By Geo. [sic] E. Lasalle. New York: Beadle and Adams,
cop. 1878. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 50.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Jim Bludsoe, jr., the boy phenix; or, Through to
death. A story of city and far western life. New York: Beadle and
Adams, cop. 1878. 14 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 53.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Ned Hazel, the boy trapper; or, The
phantom princess. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 15 p. illus.
5. ed. 4^o. (no. 54.)

---- Nick Whiffles’s pet; or, In the valley of death. New York: Beadle
and Adams, cop. 1878. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 56.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Deadwood Dick’s eagles; or, The pards of Flood Bar.
New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 57.)

COOMES, Oll. The border king; or, The secret foe. New York: Beadle and
Adams, cop. 1878. 13 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 58.)

RATHBORNE, St. George. Old Hickory; or, Pandy Ellis’s scalp. By Harry
St. George [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 14 p.
illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 59.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Buckhorn Bill; or, The red rifle team. A tale of the
Dakota moonshiners. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 15 p. illus.
10. ed. 4^o. (no. 61.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The shadow ship; or, The rival lieutenants; a tale
of the second war with Great Britain. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop.
1878. 16 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 62.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Hurricane Bill; or, Mustang Sam and his “pard.” A
romance of the “evil land.” New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 15
p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 65.)

WARNE, Philip S. Patent-leather Joe; or, Old Rattlesnake, the charmer.
A Rocky Mountain romance. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 11 p.
illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 67.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Old Zip’s cabin; or, A greenhorn in the
woods. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o.
(no. 70.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Mad Tom Western, the Texan ranger; or, The
queen of the prairie. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle
and Adams, cop. 1878. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 72.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Deadwood Dick on deck; or, Calamity Jane, the
heroine of Whoop-Up. A story of Dakota. New York: Beadle and Adams,
cop. 1878. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 73.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Abe Colt, the crowkiller; or, The great fighting man
of the west. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1878. 15 p. illus. 6. ed.
4^o. (no. 76.)

REID, Mayne. Blue Dick; or, The yellow chief’s vengeance. A romance
of the Rocky Mountains. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1879. 15 p.
illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 78.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Sol Ginger, the giant trapper; or, The flower of the
Blackfeet. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1879. 16 p. illus. 9. ed.
4^o. (no. 79.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Rosebud Rob; or, Nugget Ned, the knight of the
gulch. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1879. 15 p. illus. 13. ed. 4^o.
(no. 80.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Lightning Jo, the terror of the prairie.
A tale of the present day. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1879. 13 p.
illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 81.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Kit Harefoot, the wood-hawk; or, Old
Powder-Face and his demons. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1879. 14
p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 82.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Buck Buckram; or, Bess, the female
trapper. A tale of the far south-west. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop.
1878. 12 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 85.)

BROWNE, George Waldo. Dandy Rock, the man from Texas. A wild romance of
the land of gold. New York: Beadle and Adams, cop. 1879. 15 p. illus.
6. ed. 4^o. (no. 86.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The boy miners; or, The enchanted island. A
tale of the Yellowstone country. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1879. 15
p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 93.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Watch-Eye, the shadow. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1879. 13 p. illus. 12. ed. 4^o. (no. 96.)

MARSHALL, John J. The outlaw brothers; or, The captive of the Harpes. A
tale of early Kentucky. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1879. 11 p. illus.
7. ed. 4^o. (no. 97.)

BROWNE, George Waldo. The Tiger of Taos; or, Wild Kate, Dandy Rock’s
angel. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1879. 14 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no.
99.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Old Rube, the hunter; or, The Crow captive.
A tale of the great plains. By Captain Hamilton Holmes [pseud.]. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1879. 21 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 105.)

BOWEN, James L. One-Eyed Sim; or, The abandoned forest home. A story of
the Pawnee war. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1879. 15 p. illus. 6. ed.
4^o. (no. 107.)

RATHBORNE, St. George. Daring Davy, the young bear killer; or, The
trail of the border wolf. By Harry St. George [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1879. 13 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 108.)

SAXE, Burton. The mad hunter; or, The cave of death. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1879. 19 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 112.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Jack Hoyle, the young speculator; or, The road to
fortune. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1879. 14 p. illus. 10. ed. 4^o.
(no. 113.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The black schooner; or, Jib Junk, the old tar. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1879. 14 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 114.)

BROWNE, George Waldo. The mad miner; or, Dandy Rock’s doom. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1879. 16 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 115.)

MORRIS, Charles. Will Somers, the boy detective. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1879. 19 p. illus. 10. ed. 4^o. (no. 118.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Mustang Sam, the king of the plains. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1879. 16 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 119.)

DUMONT, Frank. The branded hand; or, The man of mystery. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1879. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 120.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Kiowa Charley, the white mustanger; or,
Rocky Mountain Kit’s last scalp hunt. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1879.
15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 123.)

GLEASON, George. Tippy, the Texan; or, The young champion. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1879. 16 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 124.)

BROWNE, George Waldo. The Golden Hand; or, Dandy Rock to the rescue.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 131.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The hunted hunter; or, The strange horseman of
the prairie. A romance of the south-west border. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1880. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 132.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Captain Paul, the Kentucky moonshiner; or,
The boy spy of the mountains. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 13 p.
illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 135.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Night-Hawk Kit; or, The daughter of the ranch. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 16 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 136.)

REID, Mayne. The helpless hand; or, Backwoods retribution. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1880. 14 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 137.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Judge Lynch, jr.; or, The boy vigilante. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 139.)

DUMONT, Frank. Blue Blazes; or, The break o’ day boys of Rocky Bar. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 13 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 140.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Solid Sam, the boy road-agent; or, The branded
brows. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 12. ed. 4^o. (no.
141.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Panther Paul, the prairie pirate; or, Dainty Lance to
the rescue. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 16 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o.
(no. 151.)

COOMES, Oll. Eagle Kit, the boy demon; or, The outlaws of the gold
hills. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 10. ed. 4^o. (no.
153.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Gold Trigger, the sport; or, The girl
avenger. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o.
(no. 155.)

CODY, William Frederick. Fancy Frank, of Colorado. By Hon. William F.
Cody--“Buffalo Bill.” New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 19 p. illus.
17. ed. 4^o. (no. 158.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The black giant; or, Dainty Lance in jeopardy. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 160.)

MORRIS, Charles. Will Wildfire in the woods: or, Camp life in the
Alleghanies. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o.
(no. 162.)

COOMES, Oll. Little Texas, the young mustanger. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1880. 22 p. illus. 10. ed. 4^o. (no. 163.)

BROWNE, George Waldo. Dandy Rock’s pledge; or, Hunted to death. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 13 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 164.)

RATHBORNE, St. George. Hickory Harry; or, The trapper-brigades’s spy.
By Harry St. George [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15
p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 166.)

WILLETT, Edward. Asa Scott, the steamboat boy; or, The land pirates
of the Mississippi. A romance of a rich boy and a poor boy. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1880. 18 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 167.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Deadly Dash; or, Fighting fire with fire. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o. (no. 168.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Tornado Tom; or, Injun Jack from Red Core.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o. (no. 169.)

MORRIS, Charles. “A trump card”; or, Will Wildfire wins and loses. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 14 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 170.)

DUMONT, Frank. Ebony Dan; or, The rival leagues of Silver Circle. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 12 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 171.)

RATHBORNE, St. George. Thunderbolt Tom; or, The wolf-herder of the
Rockies. By Harry St. George [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams,
1880. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 172.)

BROWNE, George Waldo. Dandy Rock’s rival; or, The hunted maid of Taos.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 12 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 173.)

MORRIS, Charles. Bob Rockett, the boy dodger; or, Mysteries of New
York. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no.
174.)

WARNE, Philip S. Captain Arizona, the king pin of road-agents; or,
Patent-Leather Joe’s big game. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 14 p.
illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 175.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Nobby Nick of Nevada; or, The scamps of the Sierras.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o. (no. 177.)

COOMES, Oll. Old Solitary, the hermit trapper; or, The dragon of Silver
Lake. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1880. 15 p. illus. 11. ed. 4^o. (no.
178.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Wild Frank, the buckskin bravo; or, Lady Lily’s
love. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p. illus. 13. ed. 4^o. (no.
181.)

COOMES, Oll. Little Hurricane, the boy captain; or, The oath of the
young avengers. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 16 p. illus. 8. ed.
4^o. (no. 182.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The boy trailers; or, Dainty Lance on the war-path.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 184.)

DUMONT, Frank. Evil Eye, king of cattle thieves; or, The vultures of
the Rio Grande. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 12 p. illus. 6. ed.
4^o. (no. 185.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Cool Desmond; or, The gambler’s big game. A
romance of the regions of the lawless. By Col. Delle Sara [pseud.]....
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 22 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 186.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Ned Temple, the border boy; or, The mad
hunter of Powder river. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus.
7. ed. 4^o. (no. 188.)

EYSTER, William R. Dandy Darke; or, The tigers of High Pine. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 190.)

TAYLOR, Alfred B. Buffalo Billy, the boy bullwhacker; or, The doomed
thirteen. A strange story of the silver trail. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 13. ed. 4^o. (no. 191.)

  At head of title: A romance of Buffalo Bill’s boyhood.

PERRY, Harry Dennies. Captain Kit, the will-o’-the-wisp; or, The
mystery of Montauk Point. A story of Long Island sound and shore in the
War of 1812.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p. illus. 3. ed.
4^o. (no. 192.)

  Companion romance to his _The boy runaway_ and _The sea trailer_.

WARNE, Philip S. Captain Mask, the lady road-agent; or, Patent-Leather
Joe’s defeat. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p. illus. 7. ed.
4^o. (no. 193.)

TAYLOR, Alfred B. Buffalo Bill’s bet; or, The gambler guide. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o. (no. 194.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Deadwood Dick’s dream; or, The rivals of the road.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 195.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Arkansaw, the man with the knife; or, The
queen of fate’s revenge. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus.
5. ed. 4^o. (no. 198.)

COOMES, Oll. Prospect Pete, of the boy brigade; or, The young outlaw
hunters. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o.
(no. 202.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The boy pards; or, Dainty Lance unmasks. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 203.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Gold Plume, the boy bandit; or, The Kid-Glove
Sport. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 12. ed. 4^o. (no.
204.)

  At head of title: A romance of Buffalo Bill’s early life.

  Sequel to his _Little Grit, the wild rider_.

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Navajo Nick, the boy gold hunter; or, The
three pards of the basaltic buttes. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881.
15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 207.)

EYSTER, William R. Faro Frank of High Pine; or, Dandy Darke’s go-down
pards. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no.
210.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Crooked Cale, the Caliban of Celestial City. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 211.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Wolfgang, the robber of the Rhine; or, The young
knight of the Crossicorde. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p.
illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 214.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Captain Bullet, the raider king; or, Little
Topknot’s crusade. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 6.
ed. 4^o. (no. 215.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Bison Bill, the prince of reins; or, Buffalo Bill’s
pluck. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p. illus. 12. ed. 4^o. (no.
216.)

COOMES, Oll. Tiger Tom, the Texan terror. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1881. 14 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o. (no. 218.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Grit, the bravo sport; or, The woman trailer....
A romance of the wild west. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p.
illus. 10. ed. 4^o. (no. 222.)

  Sequel to his _Bison Bill, the prince of the reins_.

COOMES, Oll. Dashing Dick: or, Trapper Tom’s castle. A Clear Lake
mystery. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o.
(no. 224.)

EMERSON, Edwin. Dusky Darrell, trapper; or, The green ranger of the
Yellowstone. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o.
(no. 227.)

COOMES, Oll. Little Wildfire, the young prairie nomad; or, The idyl of
Echo Canyon. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 14 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o.
(no. 228.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The Yankee rajah; or, The fate of the Black
Shereef. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 230.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Plucky Phil, of the mountain trail; or,
Rosa, the red Jezebel. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1881. 15 p. illus.
6. ed. 4^o. (no. 231.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Joe Buck of Angels and his boy pard Paul Powderhorn;
or, The three wild men of Eagle Bar. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882.
14 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 233.)

HALL, Samuel S. Old Rocky’s “boyees”; or, Benito, the young
horse-breaker. A romance of adventure in the “Lone Star state.” By
Major Sam S. Hall--“Buckskin Sam.” New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 16
p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 234.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Apollo Bill, the trail tornado; or, Rowdy Kate from
Right Bower. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o.
(no. 236.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Lone Star, the cowboy captain. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 14. ed. 4^o. (no. 237.)

COOMES, Oll. The parson detective; or, Little Shocky, the ranger of
Raven-Roost. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o.
(no. 238.)

REID, Mayne. The gold-seeker guide; or, The lost mountain. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1882. 18 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 239.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Cyclone Kit, the young gladiator; or, The locked
valley. A strange mountain tale, of a stranger place and people. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o. (no. 240.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Bill Bravo, and his bear pards; or, The
roughs of the Rockies. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus.
8. ed. 4^o. (no. 241.)

MORRIS, Charles. The two ‘bloods’; or, Shenandoah Bill and his gang. A
mountain romance. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 7. ed.
4^o. (no. 242.)

COOMES, Oll. The disguised guide; or, Wild Raven, the ranger of the
north. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no.
243.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Sierra Sam, the frontier ferret; or, A sister’s
devotion. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 11. ed. 4^o.
(no. 244.)

HALL, Samuel S. Giant George, the ang’l of the range. A tale of
Sardine-box City, Arizona. By Major Sam S. Hall--“Buckskin Sam”.... New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 246.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Old Grizzly and his pets; or, The wild
huntress of the hills. By Captain “Bruin” Adams [pseud.]. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 247.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Sierra Sam’s secret; or, The bloody footprints. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 11. ed. 4^o. (no. 248.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Lighthouse Lige; or, Osceola, the
firebrand of the Everglades. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p.
illus. 2. ed. 4^o. (no. 251.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Sierra Sam’s pard; or, The angel of Big Vista. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 12. ed. 4^o. (no. 253.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The half-blood; or, The panther of the plains.
By Edward S. Ellis.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus.
6. ed. 4^o. (no. 254.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Captain Apollo, the king-pin of Bowie; or,
Flash o’ Lightning’s feud. A romance of the Shasta country. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 255.)

MANNING, William H. Young Kentuck; or, The red lasso. By Captain Mark
Wilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 7.
ed. 4^o. (no. 256.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. The lost hunters; or, The underground
camp. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no.
257.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Sierra Sam’s seven; or, The stolen bride. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus. 12. ed. 4^o. (no. 258.)

COOMES, Oll. Dare-Devil Dan, the young prairie ranger; or, Old
Rosebud’s boy brigade. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 260.)

AIKEN, George L. Fergus Fearnaught, the New-York boy. A story of the
byways and thoroughfares by daylight and gaslight. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o. (no. 261.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The tiger tamer; or, The league of the jungle.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 24 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 265.)

WARREN, Charles Dudley. Killb’ar, the guide; or, Davy Crockett’s
crooked trail. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 8. ed.
4^o. (no. 266.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The buckskin detective; or, Claude Crecy,
king of American road-agents. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p.
illus. 14. ed. 4^o. (no. 267.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The huge hunter; or, The steam man of the
prairies. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 14 p. illus. 10. ed. 4^o.
(no. 271.)

HALL, Samuel S. Arizona Jack; or, Giant George’s tender-foot pard. By
“Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882.
16 p. illus. 10. ed. 4^o. (no. 275.)

CARSON, Lewis W. The three trappers; or, The mountain monster. A tale
of the Black Hills. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 278.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Old Winch, the rifle king; or, The buckskin
desperadoes. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o.
(no. 279.)

CARSON, Lewis W. Indian Joe; or, The white spirit of the hills.... New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1882. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 283.)

  Sequel to his _The three trappers_.

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. The Scalp King; or, The human
thunderbolt. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o.
(no. 288.)

ST. VRAIN, E. L. Sancho Pedro, the boy bandit; or, The fighting pards
of Sierra Flat. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 14 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 292.)

COMSTOCK, captain. Red Claw, the one-eyed trapper; or, The maid of the
cliff. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no.
293.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Dynamite Dan; or, The bowie blade of
Cochetopa. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o.
(no. 294.)

WILLETT, Edward. Fearless Phil; or, The king of Quartzville. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1883. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 295.)

HALL, Samuel S. The Tarantula of Taos; or, Giant George’s revenge. By
“Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883.
14 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 297.)

COOMES, Oll. The sky demon; or, Rainbolt, the ranger. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 300.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The mountain detective; or, The bully of
Trigger Bar. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o.
(no. 302.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The Dead Shot Dandy; or, Benito, the boy bugler.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 13 p. illus. 10. ed. 4^o. (no. 304.)

STODDARD, Henry B. Neck-Tie Ned, the lariat-thrower; or, The dug-out
pards. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 13 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no.
306.)

HALL, Samuel S. The strange pard; or, Little Ben’s death hunt. By
“Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883.
15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 307.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Keno Kit, the boy bugler’s pard; or, Dead Shot
Dandy’s double.... A story of wild life upon the Texas border. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 308.)

  Companion romance to his _The Dead Shot Dandy_.

BADGER, Joseph E. The Barranca Wolf; or, The beautiful decoy. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 310.)

WILLETT, Edward. The roving sport; or, The pride of Chuckaluck camp.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 14 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 311.)

DEWEY, Frederick H. Cimarron Jack, the king pin of rifle-shots; or, The
phantom tracker. A tale of the land of silence. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 313.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The mysterious marauder; or, The boy bugler’s long
trail.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 314.)

  Companion story to his _The Dead Shot Dandy_, and _Keno Kit, the boy
  bugler’s pard_.

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Old Eclipse, trump card of Arizona; or,
Little Snap Shot’s horse hunt. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p.
illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 316.)

THORNE, Alfred B. Peacock Pete, the lively lad from Leadville. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 317.)

HALL, Samuel S. Ker-whoop, ker-whoo!; or, The Tarantula of Taos on
the war-path. A tale of vengeful Apache hags, and of the “citz” of
Sardine-box City, Arizona. By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 16 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 318.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The Black Rider; or, The horse-thieves’ league. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 319.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The ten pards; or, The terror of
Take-Notice. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o.
(no. 326.)

HALL, Samuel S. Creeping Cat, the Caddo; or, The red and white pards.
By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams,
1883. 14 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 327.)

HAZARD, Harry. Red-Skin Tom; or, The demon’s trail. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 329.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Black Nick, the demon rider; or, The mountain
queen’s warning. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 4. ed.
4^o. (no. 331.)

HALL, Samuel S. Frio Fred; or, The Tonkaway’s trust. By “Buckskin
Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 14 p.
illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 332.)

ST. VRAIN, E. L. Brimstone Bob, and his lightning horse quartette; or,
Major Bragg’s ride to Tombstone. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15
p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 333.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Kangaroo Kit; or, The mysterious miner. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 334.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Old Double Fist; or, The strange guide. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1883. 15 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 335.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Big Benson, the Brazos bombshell; or, The
queen of the lasso. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 14 p. illus. 3.
ed. 4^o. (no. 336.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Ben Bird, the cave king; or, Big Pete’s big
scoop. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884.
15 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 337.)

WILLETT, Edward. Clip, the contortionist; or, The vigilantes of
Montana. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 14 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o.
(no. 340.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Manhattan Mike, the Bowery blood; or, “Working-up” a
difficult case. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 5. ed.
4^o. (no. 343.)

HALL, Samuel S. The fighting trio; or, Rattlesnake, the Tonkaway. By
“Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884.
15 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 344.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Pitiless Matt, the white slayer; or, Red
Thunderbolt’s secret. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4.
ed. 4^o. (no. 345.)

STARBUCK, Roger. Fireheels; or, Old Skinflint, the death-shadow. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 2. ed. 4^o. (no. 348.)

HALL, Samuel S. Wild Wolf, the Waco; or, Big-Foot Wallace to the front.
By “Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams,
1884. 16 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 349.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. Red Ralph, the river rover; or, The
brother’s revenge. By Ned Buntline [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 350.)

STARBUCK, Roger. Big Horn Ike, the hill tramp; or, The odd pards. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 354.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The king of the woods; or, Daniel Boone’s last trail.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 355.)

---- ---- New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o.
(no. 355.)

HALL, Samuel S. The ranch raiders; or, The siege of Fort Purgatory. By
“Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884.
15 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 357.)

WHEELER, Edward L. First-Class Fred, the gent from Gopher. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 358.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Silver-Mask, the man of mystery; or, The cross of
the Golden Keys. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4. ed.
4^o. (no. 360.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The phantom light-house; or, “Black Rock,” the
smuggler spy. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 3. ed.
4^o. (no. 361.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Velvet Foot, the Indian detective; or, The
Taos tiger. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 14 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o.
(no. 366.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Yreka Jim, the gold-gatherer; or, The lottery of
life. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no.
368.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Shasta, the gold king; or, For seven years dead. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 14 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 369.)

WARNE, Philip S. Little Jingo; or, The queer pard. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 2. ed. 4^o. (no. 373.)

HALL, Samuel S. Chiota, the Creek; or, The three thunderbolts. By
“Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884.
14 p. illus. 2. ed. 4^o. (no. 375.)

MONSTERY, Thomas Hoyer. California Joe’s first trail. A story of the
Destroying Angels. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 4.
ed. 4^o. (no. 376.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Nabob Ned; or, The secret of Slab City. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 13 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 378.)

ST. VRAIN, E. L. Avalanche Alf, the foothills guide; or, The
snow-prisoners of Colorado. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 14 p.
illus. 2. ed. 4^o. (no. 380.)

HALL, Samuel S. Bandera Bill; or, Frio Frank to the front.... By
“Buckskin Sam”--Major Sam S. Hall.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884.
14 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no.381.)

  Companion story to his _Chiota, the Creek_.

WHEELER, Edward L. Yreka Jim’s joker; or, The rivals of Red Nose. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 14 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 385.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Captain Cutlass, the ocean spider; or, The
buccaneer’s girl foe. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p. illus. 2.
ed. 4^o. (no. 386.)

WARNE, Philip S. Little Oh-my. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 15 p.
illus. 2. ed. 4^o. (no. 388.)

ST. VRAIN, E. L. Jaguar Joe; or, The rivals of Barrel Gulch. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 390.)

STODDARD, Henry B. Kid-Glove Kit; or, Dainty Danford’s vow. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1885. 14 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 391.)

HALL, Samuel S. Romeo and the reds; or, The beleaguered ranch, by
Buckskin Sam [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 14 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 392.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. California Joe’s war trail; or, The Minnesota
massacre.... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
395.)

  Sequel to his _California Joe’s first trail_.

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Rough Rob of Dynamite; or, The twin
champions of Blue Blazes. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p.
illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 396.)

STODDARD, Henry B. Kid Glove Kit and pard; or, The gold king of Weird
Canyon. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 14 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no.
398.)

HOLT, Arthur F. Black Buckskin; or, The masked men of Death Canyon. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 14 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 399.)

WARNE, Philip S. Little Shoo Fly; or, A race for a ranch. A tale of
grazing life. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 14 p. illus. 2. ed.
4^o. (no. 401.)

STODDARD, Henry B. The mad man hunter; or, Mystery of Golden Gulch. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 406.)

COOMES, Oll. Hercules, the dumb destroyer. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1885. 14 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 409.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The silken lasso; or, The rose of Ranch
Robin. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 14 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no.
411.)

WHEELER, Edward L. High Hat Harry, the base ball detective; or, The
sunken treasure. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 16 p. illus. 12. ed.
4^o. (no. 416.)

COOMES, Oll. Web-Foot Mose, the tramp detective; or, The boy
bear-slayer of the Sierras. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p.
illus. 10. ed. 4^o. (no. 417.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Felix Fox, the boy spotter; or, The gold
gang of New York. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 14 p. illus. 9. ed.
4^o. (no. 418.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. The detective’s apprentice; or, A boy without a
name. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p. illus. 10. ed. 4^o. (no.
420.)

COOMES, Oll. Baby Sam, the boy giant of the Yellowstone; or, Old
Spokane Joe’s trust. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p. illus. 10.
ed. 4^o. (no. 422.)

MORRIS, Charles. The lost finger; or, The entrapped cashier. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o. (no. 423.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Cibuta John, the prickly pear from Cactus Plains;
or, Red-hot times at Ante-Bar. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p.
illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 424.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Texas Trump, the border rattler; or, Big
stakes and a bold game. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 14 p. illus.
7. ed. 4^o. (no. 425.)

WARNE, Philip S. Little Ah Sin; or, The curse of blood. A tale of ranch
life. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no.
431.)

HOLT, Arthur F. Little Lightfoot, the pilot of the woods; or, The
crooked trail. A story of the northwest woods. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1885. 15 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 435.)

GRISSOM, Arthur C. Little Fox Foot, the Gold Bowie kid; or, Old
Wildfire’s treasure. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 15 p. illus. 7.
ed. 4^o. (no. 440.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The city vampires; or, Red Rolfe’s pigeon.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 14 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 445.)

HALL, Samuel S. Little Lone Star; or, The belle of the Cibolo, by
“Buckskin Sam” (Maj. Sam S. Hall).... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886.
14 p. illus. 5. ed. 4^o. (no. 455.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Disco Dan, the daisy dude; or, The twins of
Poor-man’s Find. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 15 p. illus. 7. ed.
4^o. (no. 467.)

OSBON, John W. The rival giants of Nowhar; or, The brothers’ league.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 469.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The boy shadow; or, Felix Fox’s hunt for
the nabob. A tale of New York and its man-traps. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1886. 14 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no. 470.)

COOMES, Oll. Old Tom Rattler, the Red River epidemic; or, Laramie Joe’s
forest pards. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
473.)

WARNER, John S. The black ship. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 14 p.
illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 475.)

DEWEY, Frederick H. Tangemund, the desert detective; or, Apache Jack’s
white trail. “A tale of the land of silence.” New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1886. 15 p. illus. 7. ed. 4^o. (no. 478.)

THOMAS, Henry J. Comanche Dick and his three invincibles; or, Yankee
Eph’s prairie cruise. A romance of old Texan days. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1886. 15 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no. 484.)

PATTEN, William G. The Diamond Sport; or, The double face of Bed-Rock.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 15 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 489.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Arizona Joe, the boy pard of Texas Jack. A story of
the strange life of Captain Joe Bruce, a young scout, Indian fighter,
miner and ranger, and the protege of J. B. Omohundro, the famous Texas
Jack. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 8. ed. 4^o. (no.
495.)

---- ---- New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o.
(no. 495.)

---- Buck Taylor, king of the cowboys; or, The raiders and the rangers.
A story of the wild and thrilling life of William L. Taylor. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 9. ed. 4^o. (no. 497.)

OSBON, John W. Cactus Burr, the man from Hard Luck; or, Captain
Noname’s mission. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 14 p. illus. 3. ed.
4^o. (no. 498.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Single Sight, the one eyed sport; or, The
girl protegee of Red Flash. A story of the Old Fatality mine. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1887. 13 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 499.)

---- Branded Ben, the night ferret; or, The octopus league of New York.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 502.)

---- Dodger Dick, the wharf-spy detective; or, Jack o’ Diamonds and his
game. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 512.)

JENKS, George C. The demon doctor; or, Deadhold, the “kid” detective. A
story of the worked-out mine. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 13 p.
illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 513.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Broadway Billy’s boodle; or, Clearing up a strange
case. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 14 p. illus. 6. ed. 4^o. (no.
514.)

WARNE, Philip S. Jim Gladden’s deputy; or, The jolly pards’
all-for-love campaign. A romance of the golden state. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 517.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Cool Colorado in New York; or, The cowboy’s fight for
a million. A romance of city and wild west. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1887. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 518.)

PATTEN, William G. Captain Mystery; or, Five in one. A romance of
Bowlder Bar. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o.
(no. 519.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Dodger Dick’s best dodge; or, The gold gang
of Gotham. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
521.)

WARNE, Philip S. The jolly pards to the rescue; or, The jack of hearts.
A tale of hide and seek in the mountains. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1887. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 527.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Fox and Falcon, the Bowery shadows; or,
Trapping for human game. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 528.)

PATTEN, William G. Daisy Dare, the sport from Denver; or, The
toll-takers of Colorado. By William G. Patten.... New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 531.)

FORREST, Edwin Brooke. The cowboy duke; or, Lasso Louis’s strange
mission. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o.
(no. 532.)

OSBON, John W. Old Buckeye, the Sierra shadow; or, Against desperate
odds. A tale of Idaho. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 14 p. illus.
3. ed. 4^o. (no. 537.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Dodger Dick, the dock ferret; or, The trail
of a missing hand. A story of New York villainy. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1887. 15 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o. (no. 538.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Deadwood Dick, jr. in Texas; or, The ghouls of
Galveston. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 14 p. illus. 12. ed. 4^o.
(no. 539.)

DEWEY, Frederick H. The canyon pards; or, Cimarron Jack’s last hunt. A
romance of the great plateau. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 14 p.
illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 542.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Dodger Dick’s double; or, The rival boy
detectives. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887. 16 p. illus. 4. ed. 4^o.
(no. 543.)

SIMS, A. K. Captain Cactus, the chaparral cock; or, Josh Peppermint’s
ten strike. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1888. 15 p. illus. 2. ed. 4^o.
(no. 546.)

WARNE, Philip S. Sandy Andy; or, A good man down. A story of mining and
undermining in the Black Hills. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1888. 15 p.
illus. 2. ed. 4^o. (no. 547.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Dodger Dick’s desperate case; or, Sharper
than the sharps. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1888. 15 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 553.)

GRISSOM, Arthur C. The sure shot pards; or, The marked thirteen. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1888. 14 p. illus. 2. ed. 4^o. (no. 558.)

COOMES, Oll. Blundering Basil, the hermit boy trapper; or, The bad man
from Wapsipinnicon. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1888. 14 p. illus. 3.
ed. 4^o. (no. 562.)

WARNE, Philip S. Old Weasel-top, the man with the dogs; or, Sandy
Andy’s life run. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1888. 15 p. illus. 3. ed.
4^o. (no. 574.)

SIMS, A. K. The Silver Sport; or, Josh Peppermint’s jubilee. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1888. 14 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 576.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Little Lon, the street singer detective; or,
Kit Christopher’s missing links. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1888. 14
p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 594.)

WARNE, Philip S. Jim Dandy, the no-name sport; or, Happy Harry’s hurrah
pard. A tale of the hidden lode camp. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1889.
15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 599.)

SIMS, A. K. Happy Hans, the Dutch Vidocq; or, Red-hot times at
Round-up. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1889. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 601.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The vagabond of the mines; a romance of detective
work on the frontier. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1889. 14 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 602.)

---- The rover detective; or, Keno Kit’s champions. A romance of rough
life on the old overland. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1889. 15 p.
illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no. 607.)

---- Ralph, the death-shot scout; or, The raiders and red riders of the
Rio. A romance of the Clear Water stockade. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1889. 15 p. illus. 2. ed. 4^o. (no. 617.)

PIERCE, Jo. Buck Bumblebee, the Harlem hummer; or, The old captain’s
moving miracle. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1889. 14 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 623.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Kit, the pavement sharp; or, Rustling, the
prince of rogues. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1889. 14 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 645.)

---- Billy Bantam, the boy beagle; or, Gathering the guilty gang. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1890. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 653.)

PIERCE, Jo. Sky-Rocket Rob, the life-saver; or, The storm-waif of
Giant’s Boot. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
658.)

SIMS, A. K. Signal Sam, the lookout scout; or, The tussle at the Big
Bonanza. A romance of the San Juan silver region. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1890. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 676.)

PATTEN, William G. Wild Vulcan, the lone range-rider; or, The rustlers
of the bad lands. A romance of northwest Nebraska. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1890. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 682.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Broadway Billy in clover; or, The ruction at Lake
Tulare. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890. 14 p. illus. 3. ed. 4^o. (no.
687.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Deadwood Dick, jr.’s drop; or, The sojourn at
Satan’s Spring. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890. 14 p. illus. 2. ed.
4^o. (no. 700.)

PATTEN, William G. Violet Vane’s vow; or, The crafty detective’s craft.
A romance of the Damascus mine clean up. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 705.)

---- Old Misery, the man from Missouri; or, The mystery of the mountain
league. A strange story of southwest Colorado. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 714.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Light-heart Lute’s last trail; or, The gold crater’s
secret. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 718.)

LISENBEE, William. Maverick Mose, the Arizona detective; or, The wizard
of Urkos Pass. A romance of Arizona. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1891.
16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 721.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Silver Blade, the Shoshone; or, The Border Beagle’s
secret mission. A romance of the great craze. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 723.)

---- Silver Blade, the half-blood; or, The Border Beagle at bay. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 729.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Buck Taylor, the Comanche captive; or, Buckskin
Sam to the rescue. A romance of Lone Star heroes. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1891. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 737.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Silverblade, the hostile; or, The Border Beagle’s
ghost-trail. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
739.)

---- Silverblade, the friendly; or, The Border Beagle’s boy pard. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 748.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Dashing Charlie, the young scalp taker; or, The
Kentucky tenderfoot’s first trail. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 15
p. illus. 4^o. (no. 749.)

PATTEN, William G. Violet Vane, the vanquished; or, The life-struggle
at Shanty City. A romance of the wild west. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1891. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 750.)

OSBON, John W. Gold-Dust Dan, the trail patrol; or, Wiping out Old
Nick’s nine. A romance of Montana camps and trails. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1891. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 751.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Eagle Ned. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1892.
15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 768.)

SIMS, A. K. The rustler of Rolling Stone; or, The opposition boom at
Lucky Ledge. The romance of the great Grizzly Bear strike. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1892. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 773.)

PATTEN, William G. Clear-Grit Cal, the never-say-die detective; or, The
strange case of Captain Scudd. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1892. 14 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 774.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Broadway Billy’s shadow chase; or, Materializing the
spooks. The romance of the Rundle case. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1892. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 775.)

---- Broadway Billy’s team; or, The detective combine’s big pull. The
story of the “genteel crook.” New York: Beadle and Adams, 1892. 15 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 786.)

PATTEN, William G. Sam Sheridan, the secret service special; or, The
jamboree at Early Bird Bar. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1892. 15 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 789.)

COOMES, Oll. Kit Bandy “rattled”; or, The infant giant. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1892. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 791.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Broadway Billy’s queer bequest; or, Sifting the
Santvoord secret. The romance of a remarkable remainder. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1892. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 796.)

---- Broadway Billy baffled; or, The team’s toughest tug. The romance
of the steel hand fraud. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1892. 15 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 800.)

SIMS, A. K. Kent Kirby, the high kicker from Killbuck; or, The roster
of Rogue River Ranch. The romance of a range mystery. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1892. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 801.)

COOMES, Oll. Kit Bandy’s brigade; or, Dan, the mountain guide. A story
of the Pan Handle of Idaho. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1892. 13 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 804.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Broadway Billy’s signal scoop; or, The strangest
case on record. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1892. 15 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 805.)

PATTEN, William G. Cowboy Steve, the ranch mascot; or, The bond of
blood. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 806.)

---- Nobby Nat, the tenderfoot detective; or, The girl rancher’s rough
rustle. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 820.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The bantam sport; or, The mine-boss ferret.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893. 14 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 827.)

SIMS, A. K. The doctor detective in Texas. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1893. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 832.)

PATTEN, William G. Sharper Stokes’ double deal; or, Disaster, the
border nomad. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
836.)

PIERCE, Jo. The big four of the Bowery; or, Detective Bob, the rattler.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 837.)

KELLY, George C. Dan, the river sport; or, Foiling the Frisco sharp. A
story of the Mississippi. By Harold Payne [pseud.]. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1893. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 843.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Clip, the Battery ferret; or, Jack Jeffers’s
foul play. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
848.)

EYSTER, William R. The Tie-To Sport; or, High hustling at Sinners’
Flat. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 851.)

PATTEN, William G. Spotter Bob in New York; or, The man from ’way back.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 857.)

---- Spotter Bob’s Bowery racket. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1894. 15
p. illus. 4^o. (no. 866.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Dead-Shot Ralph’s drop; or, The cowboy smuggler
smash-up. A romance of the gold ghouls of California. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1894. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 867.)

KELLY, George C. Bowery Ben, in Chinatown; or, Sam Ling, the East Side
sport. By Harold Payne [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1894.
16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 892.)

EYSTER, William R. Diamond Dave, the gilt-edge shooter; or, Daddy
Grimes’ deadly grip. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1894. 16 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 901.)

OSBON, John W. Gold-Dust Dan’s snap-shot; or, The Deadwood speculator’s
blind. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1895. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 923.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Buffalo Bill’s crackshot pard; or, The tenderfoot
in the wild west. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1895. 15 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 929.)

EYSTER, William R. The sport in velvet; or, Big Burk’s bluff. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1895. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 931.)

SIMS, A. K. The Texan firebrand; or, Brazos Billy’s snap-shot. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1895. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 937.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Buffalo Bill’s tough tussle; or, The buckskin boss
boy. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1895. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 942.)

---- Buffalo Bill’s snap-shot; or, Wild Kid’s Texan tally. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1895. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 948.)

COOMES, Oll. Old Kit Bandy’s compromise; or, The dandy dead-shot. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1895. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 955.)

SIMS, A. K. The tramp’s trump-trick; or, The young Monte Cristo. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1895. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 961.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Bicycle Bob’s hot scorch; or, Shaking up the
street-steerers. A story of the Schoharie county hayseed in New York.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1896. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 989.)

EYSTER, William R. Six-Foot Sol, the sharp-shooter; or, Johnny on the
spot. A story of Grizzly Gulch. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1896. 16 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 1002.)

BROWN, William Perry. The reporter-detective’s big pull. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1897. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1015.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The flying Yankee; or, The ocean outcast. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1897. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1025.)

CODY, William Frederick. The phantom spy; or, The pilot of the prairie.
By Buffalo Bill [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1897. 14 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 1029.)

ARIZONA CY, pseud. You-Bet Bob’s circus. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1897. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1033.)

COOMES, Oll. Antelope Abe, the boy guide. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1897. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1035.)

CODY, William Frederick. Kansas King; or, The red right hand. By
Buffalo Bill [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1897. 15 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 1038.)

ARIZONA CY, pseud. You Bet Bob from Cross Crick. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1897. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1043.)

WILDER, William West. Cowboy Chris in Cinnabar. The battle for the Blue
Jeans. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1897. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1056.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Gold Rifle, the sharpshooter; or, The boy detective
of the Black Ranch. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1897. 14 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 1057.)

COOMES, Oll. Sure Shot Seth. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1897. 24 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 1065.)

ARIZONA CY, pseud. You Bet Bob’s jangle. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1898. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1067.)

=Beadle’s half dime singer’s library=; comic and sentimental songs
of all nations and ages.... no. 1-2, 4-19, 21-43. New York: Beadle &
Adams, 1878-79. illus. 4^o.

  “Fifty or more songs in each issue.”

  Words only.

  Nos. 1, 12-13, 19 are 2. ed.

=Beadle’s home monthly.= v. 1-9 (1856-June, 1860). Buffalo [etc.]: E.
F. Beadle, 1856-60. illus. 8^o.

  Title varies: 1856-59, The Home; Jan.-June, 1860, Beadle’s home
  monthly.

  Editors: 1856-58, H. E. G. Arey; 1859-June, 1860, M. V. Victor.

=Beadle’s library of choice fiction.= no. 3.

The MAIDEN martyr: a tale of New England witchcraft. New York: Beadle
and Co. [cop. 1864.] 110 p. 16^o. (no. 3.)

=Beadle’s monthly=, a magazine of to-day. v. 1-3 (Jan., 1866-June,
1867). New York: Beadle and Co., 1866-67. illus. 8^o.

=Beadle’s new dime novels. Old series.= no. 381-383, 386-387, 391,
395-396, 405-406, 410-411, 416, 418, 420-421, 423-426, 428, 433-435,
438-439, 441, 445-447, 449, 454, 460-461, 464, 466-469, 471-486, 488,
490-492, 494-503, 505-508, 522-524, 531, 535, 550, 553, 560, 563,
565, 567-568, 570-577, 579-580, 582-583, 585, 589, 591, 597, 599-600,
603-604, 608, 610, 614, 623-624, 627-630.

  Old series no. 387-630 also numbered new series no. 66-309.

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The grizzly-hunters; or, The Navahoe captives. A
tale of the lost city of the Sierras. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1872]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 381.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The mad ranger; or, The hunters of the Wabash. A tale
of Tecumseh’s time. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 99 p. 16^o.
(no. 382.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The specter skipper; or, The sunken will. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 383.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The black wizard. A tale of the fatal circle of
invisible fire. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 99 p. 16^o.
(no. 386.)

EMERSON, Edwin. The mad horseman; or, The prairie tournament.... New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 387.)

  Sequel to his _Dusky Darrell_.

AIKEN, Albert W. Eagle Plume, the white avenger. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1867]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 391.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The blue anchor; or, The lost bride. New York: Beadle
and Adams [cop. 1868]. 95 p. 16^o. (no. 395.)

BOWEN, James L. The red-skin’s pledge; or, The double plot. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 396.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Old Avoirdupois; or, Steel Coat, the Apache
terror. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1872]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 405.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The white gladiator; or, Manola, the sun-child.
A tale of the last of the Montezumas. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1872]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 406.)

ST. JOHN, Percy Bolingbroke. Blackhawk, the bandit; or, The Indian
scout. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 410.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The lost ship; or, The cruise for a shadow. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 411.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The death’s-head rangers; a tale of the Lone Star
State. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 187--]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 416.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The warrior princess; or, The pride of the
Everglades. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1873]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 418.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The squaw chief; or, The earl’s half-breed
daughter. A tale of the old colony days. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1872]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 420.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The flying scout. By W. J. Hamilton
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 91 p. 16^o. (no.
421.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The sea king; or, The two corvettes. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 423.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Mountain Gid, the free ranger; or, The bandit’s
daughter. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1870]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 424.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Death-Trailer, the scourge of the Plain Crees. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 101 p. 16^o. (no. 425.)

EMERALD, John. The crested serpent; or, The White Tiger of the tropics.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 426.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The corsair prince. A story of the war with
Tripoli. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 428.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The stone chief; or, The last of the giant
Indians. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1874]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 433.)

The GOLD demon; or, Lamora, the maid of the canon. A romance of the far
west. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 434.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Eutawan, the slayer; or, The Plymouth scout. By
W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 99
p. 16^o. (no. 435.)

WILLETT, Edward. Swiftwing, the squaw; or, The phantom warrior. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 438.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Caribou Zip; or, The forest brothers. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 439.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. The black spy; or, The Yellowstone trail.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 441.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The peddler spy; or, Dutchmen and Yankees. A
tale of the capture of Good Hope. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 445.)

ST. JOHN, Percy Bolingbroke. The white canoe; or, The spirit of the
lake. By the author of the “Silent hunter.” New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1868]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 446.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Eph Peters; or, The scout of the Mohawk valley,
by W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866].
98 p. 16^o. (no. 447.)

---- The traitor spy, by W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle
and Adams [cop. 186--]. 96 p. 16^o. (no. 449.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The forest princess; or, The Kickapoo captives. A
romance of the Illinois. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 102 p.
16^o. (no. 454.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The Quaker scout; or, The fugitives of
Wyoming. A tale of the massacre of 1778. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1865]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 460.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Sumter’s scouts; or, The riders of the Catawba.
A romance of the revolution. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1867].
100 p. 16^o. (no. 461.)

HAZLETON, Harry. Quindaro; or, The heroine of Fort Laramie. A tale of
the far west. By Lieut. Col. Hazelton. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1865]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 464.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The rival rovers; or, The Flying Wake. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 92 p. 16^o. (no. 466.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. Ned Starling; or, The marauder’s island. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 467.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Single Hand, the Comanche Attila; or, The
chaparral rangers. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1872]. 96 p. 16^o. (no. 468.)

GLEASON, George. Tippy, the Texan; or, The young champion. A story of
the siege of Monterey. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 187--]. 102 p.
16^o. (no. 469.)

WILLETT, Edward. The hunted life; or, The outcasts of the border. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1867]. 96 p. 16^o. (no. 471.)

LASALLE, Charles E. The buffalo-trapper. A tale of strange adventure
in the northwest. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 100 p. 16^o.
(no. 472.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Old Zip; or, The cabin in the air. A
story of the Sioux country. By “Bruin” Adams [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 473.)

COOMES, Oll. Foghorn Phil, the king of the border; or, The secret foe.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 88 p. 16^o. (no. 474.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Mossfoot, the brave; or, The fat scout of
Oneida lake. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1873]. 94 p. 16^o. (no. 475.)

WILLETT, Edward. Snow Bird; or, The trapper’s child. New York: Beadle
and Adams [cop. 187--]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 476.)

IRON, N. C. The dragoon’s bride. A tale of the Ramapo in 1770. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1864]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 477.)

WILLETT, Edward. Old Honesty; or, The guests of the Beehalt Tavern. A
tale of the early days of Kentucky. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1867]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 478.)

SMITH, Elizabeth Oakes Prince. Bald Eagle; or, The last of the
Ramapaughs. A romance of revolutionary times.... New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 186--]. 100 p. 16^o (no. 479.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The black princess; or, The border refugees. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 92 p. 16^o. (no. 480.)

MURRAY, captain. The white brave; or, The flower of the Lenape lodge.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 481.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The riflemen of the Miami. New York: Beadle
and Adams [cop. 1862]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 482.)

NEAL, John. The moose-hunter; or, Life in the Maine woods. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1864]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 483.)

PAULDING, Decatur. The brigantine; or, Admiral Lowe’s last cruise. A
tale of 1673. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 100 p. 16^o.
(no. 484.)

DUGANNE, Augustine Joseph Hickey. Putnam Pomfret’s ward; or, A
Vermonter’s adventures in Mexico. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1861]. 95 p. 16^o. (no. 485.)

BOWEN, James L. Simple Phil; or, The Pineville massacre. A story of the
settlements. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 100 p. 16^o. (no.
486.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Ruth Harland; or, The maid of Weathersfield.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1867]. 93 p. 16^o. (no. 488.)

DENISON, Mary Andrews. Captain Molly; or, The fight at Trenton,
Christmas, 1776. A story of the Revolution. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1866]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 490.)

MURRAY, captain. Wingenund, the young trail-hunter; or, The death of
War-Eagle.... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 102 p. 16^o. (no.
491.)

  Sequel to his _The white brave_.

BADGER, Joseph E. The partisan spy; or, The witch of the Santee swamps.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 492.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The sea captain; or, A cruise for honor. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1867]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 494.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Graybeard, the sorcerer; or, The recluse of
Mont Royale. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 96 p. 16^o. (no.
495.)

JAMES, Mrs. Orrin. The border rivals; or, The mill-flume mystery. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 97 p. 16^o. (no. 496.)

IRON, N. C. The unknown. A tale of 1777. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1868]. 96 p. 16^o. (no. 497.)

SMITH, Elizabeth Oakes Prince. The Sagamore of Saco.... New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 498.)

DUGANNE, Augustine Joseph Hickey. The king’s man. A tale of South
Carolina in revolutionary times. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
186--]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 499.)

WARNER, John S. Afloat and ashore; or, The wreck of the Albion. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1862]. 96 p. 16^o. (no. 500.)

THOMAS, Henry J. The wrong man. A tale of the early settlements. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 501.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The rangers of the Mohawk. A tale of Cherry
Valley. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1862]. 96 p. 16^o. (no. 502.)

IRON, N. C. The double hero. A tale of sea and land during the War of
1812. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 503.)

DENISON, Mary Andrews. Ruth Margerie. A romance of the revolt of 1689.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 111 p. 16^o. (no. 505.)

CAVENDISH, Harry. The privateer’s cruise, and the bride of Pomfret
Hall. A sea tale of ’76. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1865]. 100 p.
16^o. (no. 506.)

STEPHENS, Ann Sophia Winterbotham. The Indian queen. New York: Beadle
and Adams [cop. 1864]. 112 p. 16^o. (no. 507.)

THOMAS, Henry J. The wrecker’s prize. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1864]. 110 p. 16^o. (no. 508.)

LASALLE, Charles E. Burt Bunker, the trapper. A tale of the northwest
hunting-grounds. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 95 p. 16^o.
(no. 522.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The pale-face squaw; or, The last arrow. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1861]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 523.)

TRASK, Kate Nichols. Winifred Winthrop; or, The lady of Atherton Hall.
By Clara Augusta [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1861]. 91
p. 16^o. (no. 524.)

SUMNER, Charles P. The water waif. A tale of ancient New York. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1867?]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 531.)

NEAL, John. The white-faced pacer; or, Before and after the battle. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1863]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 535.)

STEPHENS, Ann Sophia Winterbotham. Myra, the child of adoption. A
romance of real life. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1860]. 120 p.
16^o. (no. 550.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The boy miners; or, The enchanted island.
A tale of the Yellowstone country. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1874]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 553.)

COOMES, Oll. The boy ranger; or, The heiress of the Golden Horn. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 90 p. 16^o. (no. 560.)

COMSTOCK, captain. Long Shot; or, The dwarf guide. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1874]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 563.)

PIPER, A. G. Red Hand; or, The Channel scourge. A tale of old England.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 565.)

ROBINS, Seelin. The specter chief; or, The Indian’s revenge. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 567.)

COMSTOCK, captain. The b’ar-killer; or, The long trail. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 187--]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 568.)

CARSON, Lewis W. Indian Joe, the guide; or, The white spirit of the
hills.... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 100 p. 16^o. (no.
570.)

  Sequel to his _Ben, the trapper_.

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Old Kent, the ranger; or, The fugitives of the
border. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 187--]. 96 p. 16^o. (no. 571.)

COMSTOCK, captain. The one-eyed trapper: or, The maid of the cliff. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 187--]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 572.)

IRON, N. C. Godbold, the spy; or, The faithful and unfaithful of 1780.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 115 p. 16^o. (no. 573.)

WARNER, John S. The black ship. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
187--]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 574.)

ST. JOHN, Warren. Single Eye, the scourge. A story of King Philip’s
war. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 187--]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 575.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Indian Jim: a tale of the Minnesota massacre.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 576.)

ST. JOHN, Warren. The scout; a romance of early New England. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1863?]. 112 p. 16^o. (no. 577.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The mystic canoe: a romance of one hundred
years ago. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1865]. 100 p. 16^o. (no.
579.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The golden harpoon; or, Lost among the floes. A story
of the whaling grounds. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1865]. 99 p.
16^o. (no. 580.)

ARCHER, Edward W. Old Lute, the Indian-fighter; or, The den in the
hills. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 582.)

COOMES, Oll. Rainbolt, the ranger; or, The aerial demon of the
mountain. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 102 p. 16^o. (no.
583.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The boy pioneer. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1868]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 585.)

HAZARD, Harry. The heart-eater; or, The prophet of the hollow hill. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 589.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The huge hunter; or, The steam man of the
prairies. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 100 p. 16^o. (no.
591.)

HAZARD, Harry. The white outlaw; or, The branded brigand. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 597.)

DEWEY, Frederick H. The dog trailer; or, Apache Jack’s desert trail.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 599.)

JOHNSTONE, Herrick. The scout of ’76; or, The old Dutch blunderbuss.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1864]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 600.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Adrian, the pilot; or, The island wreckers. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 603.)

ROLFE, Maro O. The man-hunter; or, The counterfeiters of the border.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 101 p. 16^o. (no. 604.)

EMERSON, Edwin. Dingle, the outlaw; or, The secret slayer. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 97 p. 16^o. (no. 608.)

---- The green ranger; or, Dusky Darrell, trapper. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1871]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 610.)

AIKEN, Albert W. Metamora, the forest king. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1872]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 614.)

MULLER, Billex. Joe Napyank; or, The river rifles. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1870]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 623.)

REID, Mayne. The helpless hand. A tale of backwoods retribution. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 624.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The Texas Hawks; or, The strange decoy. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 627.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Wenona, the giant chief; or, The forest flower,
by W. J. Hamilton [pseud.]... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872].
83 p. 16^o. (no. 628.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Merciless Matt; or, Red Thunderbolt’s
secret, by Captain Charles Howard [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1872]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 629.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The phantom horseman; or, The mad hunter of
the Mohawk. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1869]. 100 p. 16^o. (no.
630.)

=Beadle’s one cent song book.=.. no. 1-5, 7-9. New York: Beadle and Co.
[cop. 1868.] 16^o.

  Words only.

=Beadle’s pocket library.= no. 1, 3-5, 7, 9, 11, 14-18, 20-24, 26,
28-33, 35, 38-41, 43, 45-47, 49-50, 53-54, 57, 61, 71-75, 86-88,
101-105, 111, 114, 116, 122, 126-127, 130, 132, 134, 138-139, 141,
149, 151-153, 165, 186-190, 193, 196-208, 254, 267, 304-305, 311, 313,
316-319, 321-323, 327-328, 335, 342, 351-352, 360, 368, 388-389, 395,
411, 414-416, 429, 432, 439, 441, 482-492.

  no. 1-11 called Beadle’s half dime pocket library.

WHEELER, Edward L. Deadwood Dick, the prince of the road; or, The black
rider of the Black Hills. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p.
illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 1.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The Flying Yankee; or, The ocean outcast. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 3.)

WHEELER, Edward L. The double daggers; or, Deadwood Dick’s defiance.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 3. ed. 8^o. (no. 4.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The two detectives; or, The fortunes of a Bowery girl.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 5.)

WHEELER, Edward L. The Buffalo Demon; or, The border vultures. A tale
of the Southwest. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed.
8^o. (no. 7.)

OMOHUNDRO, John B. Ned Wylde, the boy scout. By “Texas Jack,” (J. B.
Omuhundro [sic]). New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 3. ed.
8^o. (no. 9.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Ralph Roy, the boy buccaneer; or, The fugitive
yacht. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no.
11.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Wild Ivan, the boy Claude Duval. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 14.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Diamond Dirk; or, The mystery of the Yellowstone.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 15.)

COOMES, Oll. Keen-Knife, prince of the prairies. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 16.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Oregon Sol; or, Nick Whiffles’s boy spy.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 17.).

WHEELER, Edward L. Death-Face, the detective; or, Life and love in New
York. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no.
18.)

RATHBORNE, St. George. Roaring Ralph Rockwood, the reckless ranger.
By Harry St. George [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p.
illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 20.)

FINN, Frank S. The boy clown; or, The queen of the arena. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 21.)

WHEELER, Edward L. The phantom miner; or, Deadwood Dick’s bonanza. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 22.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The sea-cat; or, The witch of Darien. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 23.)

COOMES, Oll. The dumb spy. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 24.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Old Avalanche, the great annihilator; or, Wild Edna,
the girl brigand. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 29 p. illus. 2. ed.
8^o. (no. 26.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The boy captain; or, The pirate’s daughter. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 28.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Dick Darling, the pony express rider. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 29.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Bob Woolf, the border ruffian; or, The girl
dead-shot. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 30.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Nightingale Nat; or, The forest captains.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 31.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Black John, the road-agent; or, The outlaw’s retreat.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 32.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Omaha Oll, the masked terror; or, Deadwood Dick in
danger. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 33.)

IRONS, Archie C. The boy rifles; or, The underground camp. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 35.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Ned Hazel, the boy trapper; or, The
phantom princess. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o.
(no. 38.)

CODY, William Frederick. Deadly-Eye, the unknown scout. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 30 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 39.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Nick Whiffles’s pet; or, In the valley of
death. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 40.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Deadwood Dick’s eagles; or, The pards of Flood Bar.
New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 41.)

RATHBORNE, St. George. Old Hickory; or, Pandy Ellis’s scalp. By Harry
St. George [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 30 p. illus.
2. ed. 8^o. (no. 43.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Buckhorn Bill; or, The Red Rifle Team. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 45.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The shadow ship; or, The rival lieutenants. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 46.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The red brotherhood; or, The twelve avengers.
By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 47.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Hurricane Bill; or, Mustang Sam and his “pard.” New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 3. ed. 8^o. (no. 49.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Single Hand; or, A life for a life. By W. J.
Hamilton (pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams, 1884. 31 p. illus. 2.
ed. 8^o. (no. 50.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Gold Rifle, the sharpshooter; or, The boy detective
of the Black Ranch. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 30 p. illus. 3.
ed. 8^o. (no. 53.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Old Zip’s cabin; or, A greenhorn in the
woods. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 54.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Deadwood Dick on deck; or, Calamity Jane, the
heroine of Whoop-Up. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 2.
ed. 8^o. (no. 57.)

---- Corduroy Charlie, the boy bravo; or, Deadwood Dick’s last act. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 61.)

PATTEN, J. Alexander. Sharp Sam; or, The adventures of a friendless
boy. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 71.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The lion of the sea; or, The vailed lady of San
Tropez. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 29 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 72.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Photograph Phil, the boy sleuth; or, Rosebud Rob’s
reappearance. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 2. ed.
8^o. (no. 73.)

MORRIS, Charles. Picayune Pete; or, Nicodemus, the dog detective. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 74.)

HEMYNG, Bracebridge. Island Jim; or, The pet of the family. A strange
story of a haunted boy and a phantom father. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1885. 27 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 75.)

---- Jack Harkaway in New York; or, The adventures of the Travelers’
Club. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no.
86.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The hussar captain; or, The hermit of Hell-Gate.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 87.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Deadwood Dick in Leadville; or, A strange stroke for
liberty. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 3. ed. 8^o.
(no. 88.)

RATHBORNE, St. George. Daring Davy. By Harry St. George [pseud.]. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 101.)

REID, Mayne. The Yellow Chief. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1885. 31 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 102.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Chip, the girl sport. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1885. 30 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 103.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The black schooner. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886.
30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 104.)

MORRIS, Charles. Handsome Harry, the bootblack detective. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 105.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Boss Bob, the king of bootblacks; or, The
pawnbroker’s plot. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 2.
ed. 8^o. (no. 111.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Piney Paul, the mountain boy. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 114.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Jabez Coffin; skipper. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 116.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The hunted hunter. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 122.)

DUMONT, Frank. Blue Blazes. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 126.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Tony Fox, the Ferret; or, Boss Bob’s boss job. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 127.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Gold Trigger, the sport. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 130.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Dainty Lance, the boy sport. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 132.)

MORRIS, Charles. Mike Merry, the harbor police boy; or, The night hawks
of the Quaker City. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o.
(no. 134.)

---- Rob Rockett, the boy dodger. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31
p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 138.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The black giant. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31
p. illus. 8^o. (no. 139.)

WHEELER, Edward L. New York Nell, the boy-girl detective. New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 2. ed. 8^o. (no. 141.)

MORRIS, Charles. Bob Rockett, the bank runner. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 149.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The Sea Trailer. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886.
30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 151.)

EYSTER, William R. Dandy Darke. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1886. 31 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 152.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Wild Frank, the buckskin bravo. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1886. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 153.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Buffalo Bill’s bet. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1887. 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 165.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Dainty Lance and his pard. [New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 186.)

MORRIS, Charles. The trapped Tiger King; or, Dark Paul’s plot. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 187.)

WHEELER, Edward L. The ventriloquist detective. A romance of rogues.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 28 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 188.)

HALL, Samuel S. Old Rocky’s boys; or, Benito, the young
mustang-breaker. A romance of adventure in the “Lone Star State.” [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 189.)

BOWEN, James L. Sim Simpkins, scout; or, The faithful mountain mastiff.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 28 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 190.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Detective Josh Grim; or, The young gladiator’s game.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 193.)

MORRIS, Charles. The dandy detective; or, The abducted boy mystery.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 196.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. Roy, the young cattle king; or, The Texan sport
unmasked.... A romance of the wild west. [New York: Beadle and Adams,
1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 197.)

  Sequel to his _Bison Bill, the prince of the reins_.

DUMONT, Frank. Ebony Dan’s mask; or, The rival leagues of the mines.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 29 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 198.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Dictionary Nat, detective; or, Bill Bravo,
the bear tamer. [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o.
(no. 199.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. The twin horsemen; or, The brothers of the plumed
lance. A tale of the great Syrian desert. [New York: Beadle and Adams,
1887.] 30 p. 8^o. (no. 200.)

EYSTER, William R. Dandy Darke’s pards; or, The Hawks of High Pine.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 201.)

COOMES, Oll. Tom, the Texan tiger; or, Old Luke’s luck. [New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 202.)

MORRIS, Charles. Sam, the office boy; or, The tables turned. [New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 203.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The young cowboy; or, The girl trailer’s triumph.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p. 8^o. (no. 204.)

WHEELER, Edward L. The frontier detective. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1887. 28 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 205.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. White Lightning; or, The boy ally. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 28 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 206.)

MANNING, William H. Kentuck Talbot’s band; or, The red lasso. By Capt.
Mark Wilton [pseud.].... [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1887.] 30 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 207.)

COOMES, Oll. Trapper Tom’s castle mystery; or, Dashing Dick’s disguise.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1888.] 28 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 208.)

CARSON, Lewis W. Black Hills Ben; or, Dutch Jan on the war-path. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1888.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 254.)

HALL, Samuel S. Giant George’s revenge; or, The boys of “Slip-Up Mine.”
By “Buckskin Sam” (Maj. Sam S. Hall).... [New York: Beadle and Adams,
1889.] 28 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 267.)

---- Bald Head’s pards; or, Creeping Cat’s cunning. A romance of the
Rio Llano. By “Buckskin Sam” (Maj. Sam S. Hall).... [New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1889.] 37 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 304.)

HAZARD, Harry. Dusky Dick’s duel; or, The demon’s trail. [New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1889.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 305.)

HALL, Samuel S. Frio Fred in Texas; or, Old Rocky to the front. A tale
of the Lone Star State. By “Buckskin Sam” (Major Sam S. Hall).... [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1889.] 29 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 311.)

WARNE, Philip S. Honest Jack’s protege; or, The dwarf’s scheme. A story
of a wonderful cave. [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 30 p. illus.
8^o. (no. 313.)

MORRIS, Charles. The street Arab detective; or, Dirk Dorgan’s
double-dealing. [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 30 p. illus. 8^o.
(no. 316.)

HALL, Samuel S. Buckskin Ben, of Texas; or, Single-Eye’s plucky pards.
By “Buckskin Sam” (Maj. Sam S. Hall).... [New York: Beadle and Adams,
1890.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 317.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Colorado Charlie’s detective dash; or, The
cattle-kings. [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 29 p. illus. 8^o.
(no. 318.)

STARBUCK, Roger. Frisky Frank in Idaho; or, Old Skinflint, the shadow.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 29 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 319.)

COWDRICK, Jesse C. Billy, the kid from Texas; or, Silver-Mask’s clew.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 321.)

  On cover: Billy, the kid from Frisco.

MORRIS, Charles. Fred Flyer, detective; or, Abe Blizzard on deck. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 322.)

STARBUCK, Roger. Dead-Shot Ike; or, Hez Helper, the Yankee pard. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 323.)

  On cover: Dead-Shot Ike in Montana.

HAZARD, Harry. Ned, the roving miner; or, Arkansaw Jack’s match. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 327.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Rocky Ben’s band; or, Big Pete’s big haul. By
W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 30 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 328.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. Ben Bandy, the boss pard; or, The plucky parson.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 335.)

HALL, Samuel S. Snap-Shot Sam; or, Ned Norris’s nettle. By “Buckskin
Sam” (Maj. Sam S. Hall).... [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 31 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 342.)

MONSTERY, Thomas Hoyer. Rocky Mountain Joe; or, Deacon Simplicity on
the war-path. [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 29 p. illus. 8^o.
(no. 351.)

MORRIS, Charles. New York Tim; or, The boys of the boulevard. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 32 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 352.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Jim’s big bonanza; or, Jake Dodd and his gang.
By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1890.] 30
p. illus. 8^o. (no. 360.)

WHEELER, Edward L. Jim, the sport, in Wake-Up. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1891. 29 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 368.)

INGRAHAM, Prentiss. The pony-express rider; or, Buffalo Bill’s frontier
feats. Deeds of daring, scenes of thrilling peril, and romantic
incidents in the early life of W. F. Cody, the monarch of bordermen.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1891.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 388.)

WILLETT, Edward. New York Bill, the dodger. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1891. 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 389.)

MORRIS, Charles. Harry, the country boy, in New York. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1891. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 395.)

RINGGOLD, Barry. New York Jack’s mettle. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1891. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 411.)

HOFFMAN, J. Milton. Dasher Dick’s dead lock. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1891. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 414.)

STODDARD, Henry B. Pony, the cowboy chief. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1891. 27 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 415.)

HOLT, Arthur F. Panther Dick’s death-leap. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1891. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 416.)

WILLETT, Edward. Bill Beeler’s bonanza; or, Alone on the plains. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1892.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 429.)

MORRIS, Charles. Cool Clark’s rash race; or, The young nihilist. [New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1892.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 432.)

WILLETT, Edward. Silverspur. New York: Beadle and Adams, 1892. 31 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 439.)

GLEASON, George. Wistah, the child spy. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1892. 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 441.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. New York Ned in California; or, The brothers of
the league. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... [New York: Beadle and Adams,
1893.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 482.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. The wild huntress; or, Old Grizzly, the
bear-tamer. By Capt. “Bruin” Adams [pseud.]. [New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1893.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 483.)

BOWEN, James L. Silver City Tom; or, Blue Belt’s barter. [New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1893.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 484.)

HAZLETON, Harry. Old Nancy’s ward; or, The rustic rifle rangers. By
Lieut. Col. Hazeltine [sic].... [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893.] 30
p. illus. 8^o. (no. 485.)

ROLFE, Maro O. The dwarf decoy; or, The white steed rider. A tale of
the old Dahcotah country. [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893.] 31 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 486.)

PORTER, Ann Emerson. Jack’s snare; or, The Kent boys’ plot. [New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1893.] 31 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 487.)

EYSTER, William R. Harry Winkle’s long chase; or, The haunted hunter.
[New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 488.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Old Crossfire’s crisis; or, Frank Nesbit,
the young trailer. By Captain Charles Howard [pseud.]. [New York:
Beadle and Adams, 1893.] 28 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 489.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Goosehead’s best shot; or, The old ranger’s long
trail. A romance of the Missouri settlements. [New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1893.] 30 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 490.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The boy surveyor; or, Rugy, the daring rider.
By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893.] 30
p. illus. 8^o. (no. 491.)

BELKNAP, Boynton H. Yankee Josh, the rover; or, Two adventurers in the
tropics. [New York: Beadle and Adams, 1893.] 29 p. illus. 8^o. (no.
492.)

=Beadle’s pocket novels.= no. 3, 25, 61, 64, 75, 77, 83, 89, 93-94, 97,
102, 105-106, 115, 120-122, 124-125, 127-128, 131-136, 138-140, 142,
145, 149, 152-158, 161, 167, 171, 173-181, 185-190, 195, 197, 207, 210,
213, 216, 218, 221-223, 225, 227, 247-248, 250-251, 260, 270.

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The boy miners; or, The enchanted island.
A tale of the Yellowstone country. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1874]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 3.)

IRON, N. C. Godbold, the spy; or, The faithful and unfaithful of 1780.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 115 p. 16^o. (no. 25.)

RODMAN, Emerson. Mad Anthony’s scouts; or, The rangers of Kentucky. New
York: Beadle and Adams [1876]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 61.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The island trapper; or, The young
white-buffalo hunters. By Capt. Chas. Howard [pseud.].... New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 64.)

EMERSON, Edwin. The wood witch; or, The squatter’s secret. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 75.)

HAZARD, Harry. The scarlet shoulders; or, The miner rangers. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 77.)

DEWEY, Frederick H. The specter horseman; or, Cimarron Jack’s last
hunt. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 94 p. 16^o. (no. 83.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The girl avenger; or, The beautiful terror
of the Maumee. By Capt. Chas. Howard [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1872]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 89.)

EMERSON, Edwin. The phantom hunter; or, Love after death. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 93.)

KLAPP, H. Milnor. Tom Pintle, the pilot; a tale of the three years’
war. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 94.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. The squaw spy; or, The rangers of the
lava-beds. By Capt. Chas. Howard [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1873]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 97.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Wild Rube, the young trail-hunter; or, The
scouts of Bradstreet. A romance of the Onondaga. By W. J. Hamilton
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 99 p. 16^o. (no.
102.)

MYERS, Peter Hamilton. Nick Doyle, the gold hunter; a tale of
California. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 102 p. 16^o. (no.
105.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The Indian spy; or, The unknown foe. A romance of
early Kentucky. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 100 p. 16^o.
(no. 106.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The pearl pirates. A tale of the Ceylon
pearl-fisheries. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 102 p. 16^o.
(no. 115.)

HAZARD, Harry. The mad hunter; or, The giant scourge of the Kickapoos.
A romance of the frontier. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 102
p. 16^o. (no. 120.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Black Nick, the hermit of the hills; or, The
expiated crime. A story of Burgoyne’s surrender. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1873]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 121.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Kit Bird, king of the mountains; or, The wild
man of the hills. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1871]. 97 p. 16^o. (no. 122.)

---- Giant Pete, the patriot; or, The champion of the swamps. A romance
of old ’76. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1869]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 124.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The girl captain; or, The reprisal of blood. A tale
of feud, vengeance and blood. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873].
102 p. 16^o. (no. 125.)

WILLETT, Edward. Silverspur; or, The mountain heroine; a tale of the
Arapaho country. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 98 p. 16^o.
(no. 127.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Squatter Dick; or, The Swamp Fox’s oath. A tale of
troubled times. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 100 p. 16^o.
(no. 128.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. Red Plume, the renegade. A tale of the Blackfeet
country. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 100 p. 16^o. (no.
131.)

ROLFE, Maro O. Clyde, the trailer; or, The brothers of death. A romance
of the plains. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 102 p. 16^o.
(no. 132.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. The lost cache; a tale of hid treasure. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 100 p. diagr. 16^o. (no. 133.)

PRESCOTT, Paul J. The cannibal chief; or, The mountain guide. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 83 p. 16^o. (no. 134.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. Karaibo; or, The outlaw’s fate. New York: Beadle
and Adams [cop. 1866]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 135.)

BIBBS, Paul. Scarlet Moccasin; or, The forest fort’s queen. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 136.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The maid of the mountain; or, The brothers of
the league. A romance of the Sierras. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.]....
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 91 p. 16^o. (no. 138.)

WILLETT, Edward. The Scioto scouts; or, The Shawnees’ decoy. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 139.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The border renegade; or, The lily of the silver lake.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 140.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Boone, the hunter; or, The backwoods belle. A
romance of early life in Virginia. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1872]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 142.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The lone chief; or, The trappers of the Saskatchewan.
A tale of the long trail. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 102
p. 16^o. (no. 145.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. The unseen hand; or, The four scouts of the
Waccamaw. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 100 p. 16^o. (no.
149.)

HAZLETON, Harry. Billy Bowlegs, the Seminole chief; or, The captives of
the Kissimmee. By the author of “Silver Bugle”.... New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1865]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 152.)

ROBINS, Seelin. The valley scout. A stirring Indian tale. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 153.)

BIBBS, Paul. Red Jacket, the Huron; or, The belle of the border. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 154.)

MILLBANK, H. R. The jungle scout. A romance of India. New York: Beadle
and Adams [cop. 1868]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 155.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. The Cherokee chief; or, The white rose of the
Saluda. A romance of 1756. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1867]. 99
p. 16^o. (no. 156.)

ARCHER, Edward W. The bandit hermit; or, The captive of the cave. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1869]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 157.)

NUNES, Joseph A. The patriot scouts; or, The Green-Mountain boys. A
tale of the Revolution. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1869]. 95 p.
16^o. (no. 158.)

The BEAUTIFUL unknown. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 100 p.
16^o. (no. 161.)

  Running title: Zach Smith.

WILLETT, Edward. The three captives. A tale of the Taos valley. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1867]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 167.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. The trader spy; or, The victim of the fire-raft.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1869]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 171.)

WILLETT, Edward. The border foes; or, The perils of a night. A romance
of early Kentucky. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 99 p. 16^o.
(no. 173.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Border vengeance; or, The night-hawk’s
daughter. A tale of the territories. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 174.)

THOMAS, Mrs. Henry J. Border Bessie. A romance of the Kanawha. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 175.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The sons of liberty; or, The maid of Tryon. A
story of the Mohawk valley in revolutionary days. By W. J. Hamilton
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 100 p. 16^o. (no.
176.)

BOWEN, James L. The lost bride. A story of life in the west. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1867]. 93 p. 16^o. (no. 177.)

ST. JOHN, Percy Bolingbroke. Keetsea, queen of the plains; or, The
enchanted rock. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 102 p. 16^o.
(no. 178.)

WILLETT, Edward. The Tonkawa spy; or, The Comanche foray. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1873]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 179.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The prairie scourge; or, The jaguar pet. By W.
J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 100 p.
16^o. (no. 180.)

---- Red Lightning; or, The black league. A tale of the trading-posts
in 1760. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1872]. 96 p. 16^o. (no. 181.)

BADGER, Joseph E. Hurricane Bill; or, Mustang Sam and his “pard.” A
romance of the “evil land.” New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 100
p. 16^o. (no. 185.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The red outlaw; or, The young ranger’s bride.
By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871].
98 p. 16^o. (no. 186.)

---- The swamp scout. A romance of 1779. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.]....
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1869]. 92 p. 16^o. (no. 187.)

---- The Shawnees’ foe; or, The hunter of the Juniata. By W. J.
Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 100 p.
16^o. (no. 188.)

---- Mohawk Nat. A tale of the great north woods. By W. J. Hamilton
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 98 p. 16^o. (no.
189.)

JAMES, Mrs. Orrin. Old Jupe; or, A woman’s art. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1867]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 190.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. The man in green; or, The siege of Bexar. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 195.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The prairie trapper; or, The child of the
brigade. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1868]. 95 p. 16^o. (no. 197.)

---- The twin scouts. A story of the old French war. By W. J. Hamilton
[pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 96 p. 16^o. (no.
207.)

DENISON, Mary Andrews. Tim Bumble’s charge; or, Mrs. Lattison’s one
great sorrow. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 103 p. 16^o.
(no. 210.)

CLARK, Charles Dunning. The prairie queen; or, Tom Western, the Texan
ranger. By W. J. Hamilton [pseud.].... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1871]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 213.)

BELKNAP, Boynton H. Peleg Smith; or, Adventures in the tropics. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 186--]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 216.)

AIMARD, Gustave. The prairie pirates; or, The hunter’s revenge. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1867]. 120 p. 16^o. (no. 218.)

WHITTAKER, Frederick. Dick Darling, the pony expressman. A tale of the
old Salt Lake trail. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 100 p.
16^o. (no. 221.)

---- The mustang-hunters; or, The beautiful amazon of the hidden
valley. A tale of the staked plains. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1862]. 93 p. 16^o. (no. 222.)

PORTER, Ann Emerson. Guilty or not guilty?; or, The ordeal of fire. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1866]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 223.)

HAZLETON, Harry. The Schuylkill rangers; or, The bride of Valley Forge.
A story of 1777. By the author of “Quindaro,” etc. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1865]. 96 p. 16^o. (no. 225.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Irona; or, Life on the old south-west border.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1861]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 227.)

AIKEN, Albert W. The brigand captain; or, The prairie pathfinder. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 92 p. 16^o. (no. 247.)

COOMES, Oll. Old Strategy; or, Reckless Roll, the boy ranger. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 88 p. 16^o. (no. 248.)

BADGER, Joseph E. The prairie tigers; or, Eye for eye and tooth for
tooth. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1874]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 250.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The rival hunters; or, The forest garrison.
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 187--]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 251.)

BIBBS, Paul. Red Ax, the Indian giant; or, The river stockade. A tale
of border life. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1872]. 84 p. 16^o.
(no. 260.)

BOWEN, James L. Blue Belt, the guide; or, The red compact. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1871]. 102 p. 16^o. (no. 270.)

=Beadle’s popular library.= no. 1-2, 15, 19, 21, 23-24, 26, 30.

INMAN, Robert Randolph. Dandy Dick, detective. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1.)

WARING, Marcus H. The three spotters. By Marcus H. Waring--“Sergeant
Mark.” New York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 2.)

BLAKE, Redmond. Lightning Leo, the behind-the-scenes detective. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 15.)

WARING, Marcus H. The three spotters’ hot heat. By Marcus H.
Waring--“Sergeant Mark.” New York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 19.)

BLAKE, Redmond. Lightning Leo’s luck; or, The rats of the river. New
York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 21.)

FORT, Frank. Lion-heart Lee, the Lakeside detective. New York: Beadle
and Adams, 1891. 16 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 23.)

  Imperfect: p. 16 mutilated.

LYTTON, Edward. Bullion Bret, the giant grip. New York: Beadle and
Adams, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 24.)

SCOTT, Sam S. Mustang Merle’s mandate. New York: Beadle and Adams,
1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 26.)

WILDER, William West. Cowboy Chris, the vengeance volunteer. By Wm.
West Wilder--“Wyoming Will.” New York: Beadle and Adams, 1891. 15 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 30.)

=Belles and beaux=; a home weekly for winter nights and summer days. v.
1, no. 3 (Feb. 14, 1874). New York, 1874. f^o.

=Boys’ books of romance and adventure.= no. 1, 3, 5-8, 16.

DEFOE, Daniel. The life and surprising adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Illustrated ... by George G. White. New York: Beadle and Adams
[186--?]. 54 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 1.)

HENDERSON, J. Stanley. Prairie Chick; or, The Quaker abroad. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1865]. 43 p. 8^o. (no. 3.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester, editor. Deborah Sampson, the girl soldier,
and Big Joe Logston’s fight with an Indian, Gen. Morgan’s prayer. The
Johnson boys’ escape. E. S. Ellis, editor. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1863]. 64 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 5.)

  =NAS p.v.15, no.6=

---- Marion’s men, and A great hunting adventure, Elerson’s famous
race, Molly Pitcher at Monmouth. Edward S. Ellis, editor. New York:
Beadle and Adams [cop. 1863]. 64 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 6.)

The BOY sentinel: and, Tecumseh and the prisoners, Horsewhipping a
tyrant, A mother’s trial. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1863]. 64 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 7.)

The BOY captive: and, Women defending the wagon, Moody, the refugee,
The leap for life. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1864]. 64 p. illus.
8^o. (no. 8.)

PRENTICE, George Henry. The test shot; or, The marked bullet. A story
of a young hunter’s skill. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1864]. 39
p., 1 pl. 8^o. (no. 16.)

The =Camp-fire library=; original stories of thrilling adventures. no.
1, 4, 46, 56, 65, 69, 84.

INGRAHAM, Joseph Holt. The Flying Fish; or, Running the blockade of
Boston harbor. New York: Camp-Fire Library Co., 1887. 24 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 1.)

---- The patriot cruiser; or, Mystery of the three-masted schooner. New
York: Camp-Fire Library Co., 1887. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 4.)

---- A Yankee blue-jacket; or, The cruise of the Ringdove. New York:
Camp-Fire Library Co., 1888. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 46.)

---- The steel mask; or, Mystery of the Flying Cloud. New York:
Camp-Fire Library Co., 1888. 22 p. illus. f^o. (no. 56.)

  Imperfect: last p. missing.

---- The Kennebec cruiser; or, Chased by the coast blockaders. New
York: Camp-Fire Library Co., 1888. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 65.)

---- The hunted sloop; or, On and off soundings. New York: Camp-Fire
Library Co., 1889. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 69.)

---- The hunted slaver; or, Wrecked in port. New York: Camp-Fire
Library Co., 1889. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 84.)

=De Witt’s ten cent romances.= no. 2, 9, 11, 13-14, 19-20, 27, 29-30,
38-39, 42, 45-48, 50-60, 68-71, 73, 75-76, 78-79, 81-82, 87-88, 93,
106-107, 110, 114, 118.

BOONE, Henry L. Prairie Pete; or, The trapper’s avenger. A romance of
forest and prairie. New York: R. M. De Witt [cop. 1867]. 100 p., 1 pl.
16^o. (no. 2.)

FORREST, Christopher. Captain Bob, the mountain devil. New York: R. M.
De Witt, cop. 1867. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 9.)

JOHNSTONE, Herrick. Sam Sutton, the scalp-taker. A stirring romance of
the far west. By the author of ‘The old Dutch blunderbus’.... New York:
R. M. De Witt [cop. 1867]. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 11.)

BOONE, Henry L. Big Lige; or, The Red Cloud of the Shoshones. Thrilling
tale of scouts and Indians. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1868. 100 p.,
1 pl. 16^o. (no. 13.)

---- Zoph Slaughter; or, The head hunters of Sunken Lake. A romance of
the unknown diggin’s. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1868. 100 p., 1 pl.
16^o. (no. 14.)

---- Tiger-Head; or, The spectre of the swamp. A weird romance of the
western woodlands. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1868. 100 p., 1 pl.
16^o. (no. 19.)

FORREST, Christopher. Jack Long; or, The shot in the eye! A tale of
cruel wrong and wild revenge. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1868. 100
p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 20.)

INGRAHAM, Joseph Holt. Forrestal; or, The light of the reef. New York:
R. M. De Witt, 1868. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 27.)

  =NBN p.v.7, no.3=

---- The silver bottle; or, Adventures of little Marlboro’. New York:
R. M. De Witt, 1868. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 29.)

  =NBN p.v.8, no.4=

---- The eagle crest; or, The duke’s heir. New York: R. M. De Witt,
1868. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 30.)

  =NBN p.v.8, no.1=

---- Moloch, the money-lender; or, The beautiful Jewess. New York: R.
M. De Witt, 1869. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 38.)

  =NBN p.v.6, no.8=

---- Ramero; or, The prince and the prisoner. New York: R. M. De Witt,
1869. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 39.)

  =NBN p.v.8, no.2=

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. War-Eagle; or, Ossiniwa, the Indian brave.
By Ned Buntline [pseud.].... New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1869. 100
p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 42.)

FLACK. Indian Jake; or, The prairie hunter. New York: R. M. De Witt,
cop. 1869. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 45.)

BOONE, Henry L. The mountain trapper; or, The ranger and the bear. New
York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1869. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 46.)

---- The maid of old Kaintuck; or, The plaguespots of the Sciota. New
York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1869. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 47.)

---- Reckless Rob; or, The fiery stampede. New York: R. M. De Witt,
cop. 1869. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 48.)

FORREST, Christopher. The outlaw’s bride.... New York: R. M. De Witt,
1869. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 50.)

  =NBN p.v.6, no.4=

  _Sequel to his Hildebrand the outlaw._

---- The Onondaga giant: a story of a lost race. New York: R. M. De
Witt, cop. 1869. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 51.)

INGRAHAM, Joseph Holt. The ring dove; or, The privateer and the cutter.
New York: R. M. De Witt, 1869. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 52.)

  =NBN p.v.8, no.8=

---- The Texan ranger; or, The rose of the Rio Grande. New York: R. M.
De Witt, cop. 1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 53.)

---- The Mexican bravo; or, The fair maiden’s rescue.... New York: R.
M. De Witt, cop. 1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 54.)

  Sequel to his _The Texan ranger_.

FORREST, Christopher. The outlaw’s sister.... New York: R. M. De Witt,
cop. 1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 55.)

  Continuation of his _The outlaw’s bride_.

---- Put Martin. The Texan horse thief.... New York: R. M. De Witt,
cop. 1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 56.)

  Continuation of his _The outlaw’s sister_.

---- Sol Anderson; or, The robber’s gold. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop.
1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 57.)

LIPPARD, George. ’Bel of Prairie Eden. A romance of Mexico. New York:
R. M. De Witt, cop. 1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 58.)

INGRAHAM, Joseph Holt. Charles Blackford; or, The adventures of a
student. New York: R. M. De Witt, 1870. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 59.)

  =NBN p.v.8, no.7=

---- Jeannette Wetmore; or, The burglar and the counsellor. New York:
R. M. De Witt, 1870. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 60.)

  =NBN p.v.8, no.5=

---- Ellen Hart; or, The forger’s daughter. New York: R. M. De Witt,
1870. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 68.)

  =NBN p.v.8, no.6=

BOONE, Henry L. The chief of the cowboys; or, The beauty of the neutral
ground. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no.
69.)

INGRAHAM, Joseph Holt. Arthur Denwood; or, The maiden of the inn. New
York: R. M. De Witt, 1870. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 70.)

  =NBN p.v.8, no.3=

BOONE, Henry L. Yankee Jim, the horserunner; a tale of love and hate in
southern California. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1870. 100 p., 1 pl.
16^o. (no. 71.)

WILLIAMS, Henry Llewellyn. Seth the skrimmager; or, The bravoes of
borderland. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o.
(no. 73.)

INGRAHAM, Joseph Holt. The red arrow; or, Winwood, the fugitive. New
York: R. M. De Witt, 1870. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 75.)

  =NBN p.v.7, no.1=

---- The ocean bloodhound; or, The convict brother. New York: R. M. De
Witt, 1870. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 76.)

  =NBN p.v.6, no.7=

The DEMON hunter; or, The squaw’s revenge. By the author of “The sailor
Crusoe”; “The Indian huntress; or, The blazing forest”; &c. New York:
R. M. De Witt, cop. 1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 78.)

The INDIAN huntress; or, The blazing forest. By the author of “The
sailor Crusoe”; “The demon hunter,” &c. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop.
1870. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 79.)

BOONE, Henry L. Spiky Jonas; or, The silent avenger. A story of the
Shawnee massacres. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1871. 100 p., 1 pl.
16^o. (no. 81.)

---- The feathered snake; or, The hut in the woods. A tale of the days
of Simon Girty. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1871. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o.
(no. 82.)

INGRAHAM, Joseph Holt. Nick’s mate; or, On and off soundings. A tale of
the coast of Maine. New York: R. M. De Witt, 1871. 100 p. 16^o. (no.
87.)

  =NBN p.v.7, no.2=

GREELEY, Robert F. The partisan’s oath; or, The trooper’s revenge. New
York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1871. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 88.)

INGRAHAM, Joseph Holt. The flying cloud. A romance of New York bay. New
York: R. M. De Witt, 1871. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 93.)

  =NBN p.v.7, no.4=

HUNTER, Marcy. Snake-Eye Sol; or, The Comanche killer. New York: R. M.
De Witt. cop. 1872. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 106.)

---- Wolf-Fang Fritz; or, The mad-grisly slayer. New York: R. M. De
Witt, cop. 1873. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 107.)

---- White Wolf; or, The mountain den. New York: R. M. De Witt, cop.
1873. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 110.)

BOONE, Henry L. Wrestling Ralph; or, The banditti of Cactus Gorge. New
York: R. M. De Witt, cop. 1873. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 114.)

The KING of the prairie; or, The trail of the bloodhounds. By the old
trapper. New York: C. T. De Witt, cop. 1877. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no.
118.)

The =Five cent comic library=. no. 148.

PAD, Peter. Chips and Chin Chin, the two orphans. Part 2. New York: F.
Tousey, 1896. illus. 4^o. (no. 148.)

The =5 cent weekly library=. no. 62.

MONTGOMERY, Richard R. Kilpatrick’s charge. New York: F. Tousey, 1884.
15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 62.)

The =Five cent wide awake library=. no. 17, 433, 439, 1089.

RATHBORNE, St. George. The marked moccasin; or, Pandy Ellis’ pard. By
Marline Manly [pseud.]. New York: F. Tousey, 1878. 25 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 17.)

LITTLE, C. Denver Dan and his mystic band. [By C. Little.] New York: F.
Tousey, 1881. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 433.)

---- Denver Dan and the counterfeiters. [By the author of “Denver Dan
and his mystic band”....] New York: F. Tousey, 1881. 15 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 439.)

“NONAME.” Dandy Dan of Deadwood and his great divide. By “Noname.” New
York: F. Tousey, 1891. 15 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1089.)

=Frank Starr’s American novels.= no. 9, 48, 51, 102, 139, 142-143, 146,
148, 150-151, 153, 155-159, 165-166, 171, 177, 181, 183, 187-188, 190,
196, 198, 200, 202-203, 208-209, 211-213, 215-216, 218-219.

  Also called Frank Starr’s ten cent American novels.

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Chinga, the Cheyenne.... New York: F. Starr &
Co. [186--.] 100 p. 16^o. (no. 9.)

  Sequel to his _Westward bound!_

BIBBS, Paul. Scarlet Moccasin; or, The forest fort’s queen. New York:
F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1870.] 102 p. 16^o. (no. 48.)

PRESCOTT, Paul J. The cannibal chief; or, The mountain guide. New York:
F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1870.] 83 p. 16^o. (no. 51.)

ROLFE, Maro O. Clyde, the trailer; or, The brothers of death. A romance
of the plains. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1872.] 102 p. 16^o. (no.
102.)

The FIGHTING trapper; or, Kit Carson to the rescue. A tale of wild life
on the plains. New York: F. Starr and Co. [cop. 1874.] 62 p. 8^o. (no.
139.)

CURTIS, Newton Mallory. The Texan spy; or, The prairie guide. New York:
Beadle and Co. [cop. 1870.] 100 p. 8^o. (no. 142.)

HAZLETON, Harry. The gulf pirate; or, The freebooters of the
Mississippi. A story of land and ocean. By Lieut.-Col. Hazeltine [sic].
New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 37 p. 8^o. (no. 143.)

WARREN, J. Thomas. Doblado, the outlaw; or, The Oronoco chief. A tale
of love and war. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 45 p. 8^o. (no.
146.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The son of the sea; or, The cutter’s cruise. A romance
of the decks and reefs. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 36 p.
8^o. (no. 148.)

HARBAUGH, Thomas Chalmers. Stung Serpent, the last chief of the
Natchez. A tale of Louisiana in the olden time. By Capt. Hamilton
Holmes [pseud.]. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 41 p. 8^o. (no.
150.)

BOWEN, James L. Scouting Dave; or, The Winnebago renegade. A story of
the Black Hawk war. New York: Amer. News Co. [cop. 1865.] 44 p. 8^o.
(no. 151.)

STARBUCK, Roger. The slaver captain; or, Scuttled at sea. A story of a
cruise off the African coast. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 36
p. 8^o. (no. 153.)

BOWEN, James L. Mike, the guide; or, Lost upon the plains. A story of
life in Texas. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 35 p. 8^o. (no.
155.)

EYSTER, William R. Waving Plume; or, The free trappers’ pass. A romance
of the gold regions. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 44 p. 8^o.
(no. 156.)

BOWEN, James L. Border Ben; or, The fatal treasure. A tale of the
northern frontier. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 44 p. 8^o.
(no. 157.)

SAXE, Burton. The black hunter; or, The cave secret. A story of
northern New York in 1806. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 43 p.
8^o. (no. 158.)

BOWEN, James L. The young ranger; or, The frontier scouts. A wildwood
tale. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1874.] 44 p. 8^o. (no. 159.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. The white wizard; or, The great prophet
of the Seminoles. A tale of strange mystery in the south and north. By
Ned Buntline [pseud.]. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1869.] 92 p. 8^o.
(no. 165.)

ROBINSON, John Hovey. Hirl, the hunchback; or, The swordmaker of the
Santee. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1869.] 80 p. 8^o. (no. 166.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. Saul Sabberday, the idiot spy; or,
Luliona, the Seminole. By Ned Buntline [pseud.].... New York: F. Starr
& Co. [cop. 1875.] 80 p. 8^o. (no. 171.)

JOHNSON, Francis. The giant trailer; or, The lost scalp. A romance of
the gold regions. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1875.] 96 p. 12^o.
(no. 177.)

ROBINSON, John Hovey. Redpath, the avenger; or, The fair huntress of
the south-west. A tale of the trapping-grounds. New York: F. Starr &
Co. [cop. 1869.] 75 p. 8^o. (no. 181.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. The smuggler; or, The skipper’s crime. A
tale of ship and shore. By Ned Buntline [pseud.].... New York: F. Starr
& Co. [cop. 1871.] 74 p. 8^o. (no. 183.)

CURTIS, Newton Mallory. Old Tiger, the patriot; or, The heroine of the
Mohawk; a tale of patriot devotion and Tory treachery. New York: F.
Starr & Co. [cop. 1870.] 96 p. 8^o. (no. 187.)

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. The sea bandit; or, The queen of the isle.
A tale of the Antilles. By Ned Buntline [pseud.].... New York: F. Starr
& Co. [cop. 1870.] 61 p. 8^o. (no. 188.)

JOHNSON, Francis. The outlaw-hunter; or, Red John, the bush-ranger. A
romance of the ranges. New York: F. Starr & Co. [1876.] 100 p. 12^o.
(no. 190.)

WILLETT, Edward. The bushwhacker’s daughter. New York: F. Starr & Co.
[1876.] 44 p. 8^o. (no. 196.)

WARREN, J. Thomas. Old Guess Markham; or, The cavalry scout. New York:
F. Starr & Co. [1876.] 39 p. 8^o. (no. 198.)

---- Old Ben Manx; or, The secret dispatches. New York: F. Starr & Co.
[1876.] 39 p. 8^o. (no. 200.)

BOWEN, James L. Smooth-Face, the scout: a story of early Ohio. New
York: F. Starr & Co. [1876.] 42 p. 8^o. (no. 202.)

WILLETT, Edward. True blue; or, The writing in cipher. New York: F.
Starr & Co. [1876.] 44 p. 8^o. (no. 203.)

HAZLETON, Harry. Captain Hayward’s spy; or, The prisoner of the mill.
By Lieutenant-Colonel Hazeltine [sic]. New York: F. Starr & Co. [1876.]
46 p. 8^o. (no. 208.)

WILLETT, Edward. The swamp scout; or, Marion’s brigade. New York: F.
Starr & Co. [1876.] 36 p. 8^o. (no. 209.)

---- The cotton-thief: a tale of the Red River country. New York: F.
Starr & Co. [1876.] 40 p. 8^o. (no. 211.)

WARREN, J. Thomas. Old Peggy Boggs; or, Nick Whiffles in the war. New
York: F. Starr & Co. [1877.] 44 p. 8^o. (no. 212.)

WILLETT, Edward. The Vicksburg spy; or, Found and lost. New York: F.
Starr & Co. [1877.] 48 p. 8^o. (no. 213.)

---- Kate Sharp; or, The two conscripts. New York: F. Starr & Co.
[1877.] 44 p. 8^o. (no. 215.)

PRENTICE, George Henry. The wood-demon. A legend of the Susquehanna.
New York: F. Starr & Co. [1877.] 35 p. 8^o. (no. 216.)

WILLETT, Edward. The silver bullet; or, The backwoods somnambulist. New
York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1865.] 34 p. 8^o. (no. 218.)

PRENTICE, George Henry. The death shot. A story of a young hunter’s
life. By George H. Prentiss [sic]. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop.
187--.] 39 p. 8^o. (no. 219.)

=Frank Starr’s fifteen cent illustrated novels.= no. 9-10, 18, 21.

ROBINSON, John Hovey. The uncle’s crime; or, The doctor’s beautiful
ward. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1870.] 89 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 9.)

O’FRANCIS, Mary. A dangerous woman; or, The broken troth. By Margaret
Blount [pseud.]. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1870.] 69 p., 1 pl.
8^o. (no. 10.)

GRAINGER, Arthur M. The aunt’s plot; or, The stolen heir. New York: F.
Starr & Co. [cop. 1871.] 94 p., 1 pl. illus. 8^o. (no. 18.)

ROBINSON, John Hovey. The artist’s bride; or, Noll Darker’s protege. A
city life romance. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1871.] 80 p., 1 pl.
illus. 8^o. (no. 21.)

=Frank Starr’s song book.= no. 5.

WEAVER, Dick. Dick Weaver’s great keno songster. Selection of comic,
sentimental, burlesque and character songs. New York: F. Starr & Co.
[cop. 1871.] iv, 6-64 p. 16^o. (Frank Starr’s song book. no. 5.)

  Words only.

=Frank Starr’s ten cent pocket library.= no. 1.

WHEELER, Edward L. Hurricane Nell, the girl dead-shot; or, The queen
of the saddle and lasso. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1877.] 163 p.
24^o. (no. 1.)

=Irwin’s American novels.= no. 2, 7, 16, 19, 25-26, 29-30, 32.

  no. 2, 7, 26, 30 called: American novels.

RODMAN, Emerson. The wood rangers. A tale of the Ohio. New York: I. P.
Beadle [cop. 1865]. 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 2.)

MYERS, Peter Hamilton. Fort Stanwix; a tale of the Mohawk in 1777. New
York: Amer. News Co. [cop. 1865.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 7.)

  Includes _A day in the life of a rich man_, by a popular author, p.
  76-100.

TUEL, John E. The ranchero: a tale of love and adventure in Mexico. By
J. E. Tuel ... and, The gambler; or, Steps to ruin. By Marie Montrose.
New York: American News Co. [cop. 1866.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 16.)

BROWNE, H. K. The loyalist. A tale of South Carolina during the
Revolution. New York: Irwin & Co. [cop. 1866.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no.
19.)

MYERS, Peter Hamilton. The gold crushers. A tale of California. New
York: Irwin & Co. [cop. 1866.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 25.)

HILL, George Canning. The mysterious letter. New York: Irwin & Co.
[cop. 1866.] 100 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 26.)

INEZ: a tale of the Mexican war. By ---- New York: Irwin & Co. [cop.
1867.] 98 p. 16^o. (no. 29.)

  Includes _The prisoners’ adventure_, p. 93-98.

MYERS, Peter Hamilton. The first of the Knickerbockers: a tale of 1673.
New York: Chapman & Co., 1866. vi, 16-119 p., 1 pl. 16^o. (no. 30.)

---- Bell Brandon; or, The great Kentrips estate. A tale of New York in
1810. New York: Irwin & Co. [cop. 1867.] 102 p. 16^o. (no. 32.)

=Lives of great Americans.= no. 1-5, 7-8, 10-13.

PANNELL, C. H. H. The life of George Washington: a new biography of the
father of his country.... New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1876]. 100
p. 16^o. (no. 1.)

VICTOR, Orville James. The life and exploits of John Paul Jones,
chevalier and rear-admiral. Embracing a full account of his services
in the American, French and Russian navies. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1867]. viii, 10-95 p. 16^o. (no. 2.)

---- The life, times and services of Anthony Wayne (“Mad Anthony”)....
New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1861]. 95 p. 16^o. (no. 3.)

---- The life and times of Colonel Ethan Allen, the hero of
Ticonderoga: with a full account of the “War of the New Hampshire
Grants.” New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1876]. viii, 10-81 p. 16^o.
(no. 4.)

The LIFE and services of Major-General the Marquis de LaFayette.... New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. viii, 10-91 p. front. 16^o. (no. 5.)

  Preface signed: E. P. H.

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The life and adventures of Colonel David
Crockett. Embracing his career as hunter, soldier and congressman; with
a full account of his Texan exploits and glorious death at the Alamo.
By the author of “Life of Boone”.... New York: Beadle and Co. [1862?]
viii, 10-96 p. illus. 16^o. (no. 7.)

VICTOR, Orville James. The life and times of Israel Putnam, maj.-gen.
in the Continental Army. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1876]. viii,
10-99 p. 16^o. (no. 8.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The life of Tecumseh, the Shawnee chief.
Including biographical notices of Black Hoof, Cornstalk, Little Turtle,
Tarhe (the Crane), Captain Logan, Keokuk, and other distinguished
Shawnee chiefs. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1861]. 98 p. 16^o.
(no. 10.)

VICTOR, Orville James. The private and public life of Abraham Lincoln;
comprising a full account of his early years, and a succinct record of
his career as statesman and president. New York: Beadle and Adams [cop.
1864]. 4, [vii]-x, 14-96 p. 16^o. (no. 11.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Life of Pontiac the conspirator. Chief of the
Ottawas. Together with a full account of the siege of Detroit. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1861]. 102 p. illus. 16^o. (no. 12.)

WILLETT, Edward. The life of Ulysses Sydney Grant, general U. S. Army.
Comprising the story of his early years; the record of his cadetship
and experiences in the war with Mexico; the narrative of his “business
experiences”; and a full history of his memorable services in the war
for the Union. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1865.] 100 p. 16^o. (no.
13.)

=Log cabin library=; new stories of startling adventure by the best
authors. no. 133, 257.

BRENTFORD, Burke. Rocky Mountain Sam; or, The wind-specter of the
Black-feet. New York: Street and Smith, 1891. 48 p. illus. f^o. (no.
133.)

LAWSON, W. B. Out with the Apache kid; or, The Dalton gang on the
border. New York: Street & Smith, 1894. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 257.)

=Men of the time....= no. 1, 3. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1862-63.] illus. 16^o. (Beadle’s dime series.)

  no. 1. Biographies of Generals Halleck, Pope, Siegel, Corcoran,
  Prentiss, Kearney, Hatch, Augur.

  no. 3. Biographies of Generals Hooker, Rosecrans, Grant, McClernand,
  Mitchell.

=New and old friends=; an illustrated edition of popular novels by
popular authors. no. 1, 3-15; new series, no. 1, 3.

  New series called: New and old friends; an illustrated paper of
  popular reading by popular authors.

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Seth Jones; or, The captives of the frontier.
[New York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 31 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 1.)

  Includes _The “Tiger of Ialasco,”_ by Capt. J. F. C. Adams.

STEPHENS, Ann Sophia Winterbotham. Malaeska; or, The Indian wife of the
white hunter. [New York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 30 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 3.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Nat Todd; or, The fate of the Sioux
captive.... [New York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 29 p. illus. 4^o.
(no. 4.)

  Sequel to his _Bill Biddon, trapper_.

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Lighthouse Lige; or, Osceola, the
firebrand of the Everglades. A tale of the haunted lake. [New York:]
Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 26 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 5.)

VICTOR, Metta Victoria Fuller. Alice Wilde, the raftsman’s daughter.
[New York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 30 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 6.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The frontier angel. A romance of Kentucky
rangers’ life. [New York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 29 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 7.)

VICTOR, Metta Victoria Fuller. The backwoods bride. A romance of
squatter life. [New York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 30 p. illus.
4^o. (no. 8.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The trail-hunters; or, Monowano, the Shawnee
spy. [New York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 28 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 9.)

---- The forest spy. A tale of the War of 1812. [New York:] Beadle and
Adams, cop. 1873. 27 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 10.)

---- Irona; or, Life on the south-west border. [New York:] Beadle and
Adams, cop. 1873. 30 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 11.)

BARKER, Colin. The golden belt; or, The Carib’s pledge. [New York:]
Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 29 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 12.)

CAVENDISH, Harry. The privateer’s cruise; or, The bride of Pomfret
Hall. [New York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 31 p. illus. 4^o. (no.
13.)

HALL, William Jared. The slave sculptor; or, The prophetess of the
secret chambers. A tale of Mexico at the period of the conquest. [New
York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 30 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 14.)

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. The riflemen of the Miami. [New York:] Beadle
and Adams, cop. 1873. 28 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 15.)

REID, Mayne. The Cuban patriot; or, The beautiful Creole. An episode of
the Cuban revolution. [New York:] Beadle and Adams, cop. 1873. 16 p.
illus. f^o. (New series. no. 1.)

  REID, Mayne, The Cuban patriot. MARSHALL, J. J., The outlaw brothers.
  HARBAUGH, T. C., The two Christmases. Sporting scenes. The “fat
  contributor” interviewed.

ELLIS, Edward Sylvester. Oonomoo, the Huron. [New York:] Beadle and
Adams, cop. 1873. 16 p. illus. f^o. (New series, no. 3.)

  Includes _The silent hunter; or, The Scowl Hall mystery_, by Percy B.
  St. John. chap. 4-7, p. 13-16.

The =New 25 cent novels=. no. 1.

FLEMING, May Agnes Early. Sybil Campbell; or, The queen of the isle.
New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1861.] 127 p. 8^o. (no. 1.)

The =New York library=. no. 19.

AIMARD, Gustave. Red Cedar, the prairie outlaw. New York: F. Starr &
Co., cop. 1877. 38 p. illus. f^o. (no. 19.)

The =New-York mirror=; a journal of romance. v. 1, no. 1-25 (Dec. 4,
1875-May 20, 1876). New York: F. Starr & Co., 1875-76. f^o.

  Weekly.

  Title varies: Dec. 4, 1875-March 4, 1876, Girls of to-day; a mirror
  of romance; March 11-May 20, 1876, The New-York mirror; a journal of
  romance.

The =Nickel library=. no. 864, 868, 889, 919.

MAHLER, Gamboge. War Eagle; or, The Arizona treasure hunters. New York:
Nickel Library Co., cop. 1882. 32 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 864.)

“NED.” Southern Sam; or, Swift and sure. By “Ned.” New York: Nickel
Library Co., cop. 1882. 32 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 868.)

GRISWOLD, Sandy. The Chippewa guide; or, The settler’s cabin. New York:
Pictorial Prtg. Co., cop. 1871. 32 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 889.)

MEREDITH, C. Leon. Bow and paddle; or, The hidden wampum. New York:
Pictorial Prtg. Co., cop. 1871. 32 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 919.)

The =Novelette=. no. 83, 86, 137, 151. Boston: Elliott, Thomes & Talbot
[1868?]. f^o.

  Monthly.

The =Novelette=. no. 5, 16, 29.

JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll. The red revenger; or, The pirate king
of the Floridas. A tale of the Gulf and its islands. By Ned Buntline
[pseud.]. Boston: G. W. Studley [18--?]. 66 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 5.)

  =NBO p.v.5, no.8=

OLMSTEAD, Edwards Keeler. One-eyed Jake; or, The young dragoon. A story
of the revolutionary struggle. Boston: G. W. Studley [1892?]. 71 p.
illus. 8^o. (no. 16.)

ROBINSON, John Hovey. The Royal Greens; or, The scout of the
Susquehanna. A tale of the valley of Wyoming. Boston: G. W. Studley
[1889]. 64 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 29.)

  =NBO=

=Novelette library.= no. 3, 16, 28.

ROBINSON, John Hovey. Marion’s brigade; or, The Light Dragoons. Boston:
G. W. Studley, 1897. 54 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 3.)

---- The pioneers; a tale of the days of Daniel Boone. Boston: G. W.
Studley, 1899. 76 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 16.)

---- The Royal Greens; or, The scout of the Susquehanna. Boston: G. W.
Studley, 1900. 64 p. illus. 8^o. (no. 28.)

=“Old Cap. Collier” library.= no. 1-5, 7-21, 23-24, 32, 42-44, 47, 50,
56-57, 62, 68-69, 71, 78-80, 87, 93-100, 110, 112, 114-117, 124-125,
131, 134, 391.

JAMES, W. I. Old Cap. Collier; or, “Piping” the New Haven mystery. By
the author of “The seaside detective”.... New York: N. L. Munro, cop.
1883. 80 p. 4^o. (no. 1.)

---- Young Dillon, the Custom House detective. New York: N. L. Munro,
cop. 1883. 59 p. 4^o. (no. 2.)

---- Dion, the dashing detective; or, Link after link. New York: N. L.
Munro, cop. 1883. 59 p. illus. 4^o. (no. 3.)

---- Heller’s pupil; or, Seligman, the second-sight detective. By the
author of “The seaside detective”.... New York: N. L. Munro, cop. 1883.
64 p. 4^o. (no. 4.)

---- The seaside detective; or, Ironclad, in the employ of the
government. By the author of “Old Cap. Collier”.... New York: N. L.
Munro, cop. 1883. 87 p. 4^o. (no. 5.)

SHARKEY, Emma Augusta Brown. Dare, the detective; or, Told by the dead.
By E. Burke Collins [pseud.].... New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 48 p.
4^o. (no. 7.)

A GREAT detective’s trail; or, The mystery of Carylynne Grange. By
the author of “Lightning change detective”.... New York: N. L. Munro
[1883]. 41 p. 4^o. (no. 8.)

TEDDY O’SHAWN, the Irish detective. By the author of “Hawkeye, the
Yankee detective”; etc., etc.... New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1883]. 44
p. 4^o. (no. 9.)

HAZEL, Fred. Lotta, the young lady detective. New York: N. L. Munro
[1883]. 50 p. 4^o. (no. 10.)

BILL DANE, the detective. By the author of “The masked detective”....
New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 48 p. 4^o. (no. 11.)

BANKS, A. F. Sharpe, the New York detective. New York: N. L. Munro
[cop. 1883]. 45 p. 4^o. (no. 12.)

JAMES, W. I. Lightning Gripp, the cautious detective; or, “Piping” the
Nathan murder mystery. By the author of “Old Cap. Collier & Co.”....
New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 48 p. 4^o. (no. 13.)

WALTERS, H. R. Vidocq, the French detective. New York: N. L. Munro
[1883]. 72 p. 4^o. (no. 14.)

The SECRET detective; or, One night in a gambling-house. By a London
police captain.... New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 64 p. 4^o. (no. 15.)

HAWK-EYE, the London detective. By the author of “The Scotland Yard
detective,” etc., etc.... New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 48 p. 4^o. (no.
16.)

JAMES, W. I. Scott, Elliott & Co., the three great detectives. By the
author of “Old Cap. Collier,” etc., etc.... New York: N. L. Munro [cop.
1883]. 72 p. 4^o. (no. 17.)

---- Old Cap. Collier & Co.; or, “Piping” the Stewart vault mystery. By
Ironclad [pseud.].... New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 64 p. 4^o. (no. 18.)

MAORI, OLD CAP., pseud. Old Thunderbolt, the government detective; or,
“Piping” the Indian agent frauds. New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1883]. 56
p. 4^o. (no. 19.)

ENTON. Mastonell, the mysterious detective. New York: N. L. Munro [cop.
1883]. 46 p. 4^o. (no. 20.)

The SPIRIT detective. Harvey, the unknown. By A. Rounder.... New York:
N. L. Munro [1883]. 48 p. 4^o. (no. 21.)

ROLINS, sergeant. The Long Branch detective. By Sergeant Rolins.... New
York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 45 p. 4^o. (no. 23.)

JAMES, W. I. Young Ironclad, the keen detective. By Old Cap. Collier
[pseud.].... New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 47 p. 4^o. (no. 24.)

OLD KIT, pseud. Detective Dawson; or, Trailing a stolen heir. By “Old
Kit”.... New York: N. L. Munro, 1883. 46 p. 4^o. (no. 32.)

M’GOVAN, James. Secret confessions; or, The experiences of an Edinburgh
detective.... New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 47 p. 4^o. (no. 42.)

---- The Edinburgh detective; or, His last confession.... New York: N.
L. Munro [1883]. 64 p. 4^o. (no. 43.)

HIS own detective; or, The great safe robbery. By a celebrated French
detective.... New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 69 p. 4^o. (no. 44.)

M’GOVAN, James. Brought to bay; or, A detective’s experience. By James
McGovan.... New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 47 p. 4^o. (no. 47.)

CAPTAIN John Howard, detective, of Greene county, S. N. Y. By one of
the squad.... New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1883]. 44 p. 4^o. (no. 50.)

  Includes _Legends of the Black Watch_, by James Grant, p. 29-44.

BAYARD, Paul. Old Gripes; or, The mysterious bond robbery. New York: N.
L. Munro [1883]. 46 p. 4^o. (no. 56.)

MAORI, OLD CAP., pseud. Samson, the strong detective. By the author of
“Old Thunderbolt”.... New York: N. L. Munro [1883]. 47 p. 4^o. (no. 57.)

WOGLOM, police inspector. Sergeant detective Sparrow, L. J. C.; or, The
thugs of New York. By Police Inspector Woglom.... New York: N. L. Munro
[1883]. 46 p. 4^o. (no. 62.)

  Includes _How I gave up my detective business_, p. 40-46.

CARL RUHL, the phenomenal detective. By the author of “Frank James’
mistake”.... New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1883]. 46 p. 4^o. (no. 68.)

JAMES, W. I. The frontier detective; or, A crimson trail. New York: N.
L. Munro [cop. 1883]. 43 p. 4^o. (no. 69.)

  Includes _A murderer’s mistake_, p. 40-43.

SAWYER, Eugene T. Millions at stake; or, The gambler detective. A tale
of peril and adventure on the Pacific coast. New York: N. L. Munro
[cop. 1884]. 44 p. 4^o. (no. 71.)

CARLTON, lieutenant. Black Douglass, the Jersey City detective; or,
Tracing the mystery of a great crime. New York: N. L. Munro [cop.
1884]. 45 p. 4^o. (no. 78.)

HOWARD, Jack. The great Barry case; or, The mysterious murder at No.
47. New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 43 p. 4^o. (no. 79.)

  Includes _Count Vinciano’s mysterious mission_, p. 36-43.

JEROME, Gilbert. Dominick Squeek, the Bow Street runner; or, An English
detective in America. By a member of the London police.... New York: N.
L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 47 p. 4^o. (no. 80.)

HOWARD, Jack. Hawkeye & Ferrit, the shrewd Bowery detectives. New York:
N. L. Munro [1884]. 48 p. 4^o. (no. 87.)

ROLFE, Maro O. Diamond Dan, the Brooklyn divorce detective; or, The
crimes of a wicked woman. New York: N. L. Munro [1884]. 48 p. 4^o. (no.
93.)

MERRICK, Mark. Detective Jack; or, The night-hawks of Boston. New York:
N. L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 45 p. 4^o. (no. 94.)

MORRIS, Anthony P. Tom Turner, detective; or, Piping the hawks of
Baltimore. New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 45 p. 4^o. (no. 95.)

JEROME, Gilbert. The ten-spot of diamonds; or, “Piping” the affair of
the Rue Fosseys. New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 50 p. 4^o. (no. 96.)

HOWARD, Jack. Old Sledge, the blacksmith detective. New York: N. L.
Munro [1884]. 47 p. 4^o. (no. 97.)

HARNEY, F. X. The Saratoga detective; or, A terrible murder mystery.
New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 42 p. 4^o. (no. 98.)

MERRICK, Mark. A house of mystery; or, Jack Sharp in Chicago. New York:
N. L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 46 p. 4^o. (no. 99.)

BROUGHTON, F. Lusk. Paul Prince, detective; or, Trailing a poisoner.
New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 45 p. 4^o. (no. 100.)

  Includes _A wolf in sheep’s clothing_, p. 42-45.

MILLER, Warne. Tracked by the dead; or, The doctor detective. New York:
N. L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 46 p. 4^o. (no. 110.)

HOWARD, Jack. The Cornwall tragedy; or, The mystery of the headless
nail. By the author of “The great Barry case.”... New York: N. L. Munro
[cop. 1884]. 44 p. 4^o. (no. 112.)

JEROME, Gilbert. Isaac Lazarus; the Egyptian detective. New York: N. L.
Munro [cop. 1884]. 45 p. 4^o. (no. 114.)

  Includes _Hunting for a curly head_, p. 42-45.

HOWARD, Jack. The clique of crime; or, Old Broadbrim’s last case. New
York: N. L. Munro [1884]. 47 p. 4^o. (no. 115.)

JEROME, Gilbert. Old Roulette; or, Red and black. New York: N. L. Munro
[cop. 1884]. 40 p. 4^o. (no. 116.)

BRACE, the American detective; or, “Piping” a case in two lands.... New
York: N. L. Munro [1884]. 42 p. 4^o. (no. 117.)

  Includes “_A glass of bitter beer_,” p. 39-42.

DICK DESPARD, the Missouri detective; or, Saving a family and a
fortune.... New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1884]. 36 p. 4^o. (no. 124.)

JEROME, Gilbert. Old Subtle; or, The willing victim. New York: N. L.
Munro [cop. 1884]. 42 p. 4^o. (no. 125.)

HARNEY, F. X. The headless body; or, Dan Britton’s master-stroke; a
mystery of New York bay. New York: N. L. Munro [cop. 1885]. 44 p. 4^o.
(no. 131.)

JEROME, Gilbert. Young Weasel, the detective; or, “Piping” a beautiful
fiend. A mystery of Fifth Avenue and the Tombs. New York: N. L. Munro
[cop. 1885]. 43 p. 4^o. (no. 134.)

WILD BILL, pseud. The death of Sitting Bull; or, General Custer
avenged. The most exciting Indian story ever published. [New York:
Munro’s Pub. House, 1890.] 31 p. illus. f^o. (no. 391.)

=Old Sleuth library.= no. 5-6, 19, 21, 25, 37-38, 46, 54, 60, 63, 68,
75, 80, 84, 95, 97, 99, 101.

HALSEY, Harlan Page. Night scenes in New York: in darkness and by
gaslight. By Old Sleuth [pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1885. 32
p. f^o. (no. 5.)

---- Old Electricity, the lightning detective. By Old Sleuth [pseud.].
New York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1885. 30 p. illus. f^o. (no. 6.)

----- The Yankee detective; or, Shadowed to doom. By Old Sleuth
[pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1885. 29 p. illus. f^o. (no. 19.)

---- Black Raven, the Georgia detective; or, The terror of the mountain
“mooners.” By Old Sleuth [pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1885. 31
p. illus. f^o. (no. 21.)

---- Old Terrible, the iron-arm detective. By Old Sleuth [pseud.]. New
York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1886. 24 p. illus. f^o. (no. 25.)

---- Tom Thumb; or, The wonderful boy detective. By Old Sleuth
[pseud.]. New York: G. Munro, 1887. 2 v. in 1. illus. f^o. (no. 37.)

---- Old Ironsides abroad; or, The giant detective in Ireland. By Old
Sleuth [pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1888. 53 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 38.)

---- Old Sleuth’s luck; or, Day and night in New York. A startling
narrative of hidden treasure. By Old Sleuth [pseud.]. New York: G.
Munro’s Sons, 1889. 41 p. illus. f^o. (no. 46.)

---- Old Ironsides in New York; or, The daughter of the G. A. R. By Old
Sleuth [pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1891. 42 p. illus. f^o.
(no. 54.)

---- Old Phenomenal; or, The double tragedy mystery. An old-time
detective narrative. By Old Sleuth [pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons,
1893. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 60.)

---- Monte-Cristo Ben, the ever-ready detective. A narrative of
remarkable complications. By Old Sleuth [pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s
Sons, 1893. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 63.)

---- Old Ironsides at his best. By “Old Sleuth” [pseud.].... New York:
G. Munro’s Sons, 1895. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 68.)

---- The silent terror. A narrative of genuine detective strategy. By
“Old Sleuth” [pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1896. 32 p. illus.
f^o. (no. 75.)

---- The giant detective’s last “shadow.” A tale of herculean detective
adventures. By “Old Sleuth” [pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1898.
32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 80.)

---- Mephisto; or, The razzle-dazzle detective. By “Old Sleuth”
[pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons, 1899. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 84.)

---- On their track.... By “Old Sleuth” [pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s
Sons, cop. 1903. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 95.)

  Conclusion of his _The omnipresent avenger_.

---- Tragedy and strategy.... By “Old Sleuth” [pseud.]. New York: G.
Munro’s Sons, cop. 1903. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no. 97.)

  Continuation of his _The American Monte-Cristo_.

---- Mademoiselle Lucie, the French lady detective. By “Old Sleuth”
[pseud.]. New York: G. Munro’s Sons, cop. 1904. 32 p. illus. f^o. (no.
99.)

---- Lights and shades of New York, by “Old Sleuth” [pseud.]. New York:
G. Munro’s Sons, cop. 1905. 32 p. f^o. (no. 101.)

=Rexford=, George C., compiler. Beadle’s dime school melodist; a choice
selection of familiar and beautiful songs, duets, trios, &c. Arranged
in a simple manner for school singing, with elementary instructions
suited to children of the most tender age. Compiled and arranged by
George C. Rexford. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1860.] 80 p. 16^o.

  Tunes only.

The =Star journal=. v. 9-10 (Jan. 4-Dec. 27, 1879). New York, 1879. f^o.

  Weekly.

  Numbering continuous.

=Ten cent novelettes.= no. 15, 21, 26, 31, 47, 52, 61-63, 72-73, 84, 86.

LEWIS, Julius Warren. Fitz-Hern; or, The rover of the Irish seas.
A story of Galway bay. By F. Clinton Barrington [pseud.]. Boston:
Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1863]. 128 p. 16^o. (no. 15.)

BALLOU, Maturin Murray. The Turkish slave; or, The dumb dwarf of
Constantinople. A story of the eastern world. By Lieutenant Murray
[pseud.]. Boston: Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1863]. 128 p. 16^o.
(no. 21.)

MCCARTNEY, J. W. The Fenians; or, Neil O’Connor’s triumph. A story of
old Ireland and young America. Boston: Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop.
1865]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 26.)

HOWARD, Jane. Zelda. A tale of the Massachusetts colony. Boston:
Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1866]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 31.)

BALLOU, Maturin Murray. Red Rupert, the American buccaneer. A tale of
the Spanish Indies. By Lieutenant Murray [pseud.].... Boston: Elliott,
Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1863]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 47.)

COBB, Sylvanus. The patriot cruiser. A revolutionary story. Boston:
Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1863]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 52.)

LEWIS, Julius Warren. Red Hand; or, The cruiser of the English Channel.
A story of the olden time. By F. Clinton Barrington [pseud.]. Boston:
Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1863]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 61.)

---- The young fisherman; or, The cruiser of the English Channel....
A story of the olden time. By F. Clinton Barrington [pseud.]. Boston:
Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1863]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 62.)

  Sequel to his _Red Hand_.

BUSHNELL, William H. A lost life; or, Poisoned for love. A physician’s
story. Boston: Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1865]. 99 p. 16^o. (no.
63.)

WILLIAMS, John B. Joaquin; or, The brothers of the coast. Boston:
Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1863]. 98 p. 16^o. (no. 72.)

---- The buccaneers.... Boston: Elliott, Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1863].
100 p. 16^o. (no. 73.)

  Sequel to his _Joaquin; or, The brothers of the coast_.

RALPH THE REEFER, pseud. The Florida pirate. Boston: Thomes & Talbot
[cop. 1863]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 84.)

SHILLABER, Benjamin Penhallow. Mrs. Partington’s ridicule. A collection
of wit and humor, which the old lady offers to her friends. Boston:
Thomes & Talbot [cop. 1863]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 86.)

=Ten cent popular novels.= no. 17, 64, 78.

PAUL JONES, the bold privateer. New York: Ornum & Co. [187--.] 100 p.
16^o. (no. 17.)

HEMYNG, Bracebridge. Jack Harkaway in a duel. By the author of “Dick
Light-heart”.... New York: Ornum & Co. [1870?] 96 p. 16^o. (no. 64.)

  =NCT p.v.78, no.5=

RATHBORNE, St. George. Mexican Mose; or, The border scout of the
southwest. A tale of McCulloch’s Texan rangers. By Marline Manly
[pseud.]. New York: Ornum & Co. [1870?] 98 p. 16^o. (no. 78.)

  =NBN p.v.42, no.3=

The =War library=; original stories of adventure in the war for the
Union. no. 233.

VERNE, Ilian. Phil, the scout; or, A fight for Beauregard’s dispatches.
A story of Pittsburg Landing. New York: Novelist Pub. Co., 1887. 24 p.
illus. 4^o. (no. 233.)

The =Weekly novelette=. v. 2, no. 23-26; v. 6, no. 7-10, 23-26; v. 7,
no. 13-16 (Feb. 20-March 13, 1858, Oct 29-Nov. 19, 1859, Feb. 18-March
10, June 9-30, 1860). Boston: M. M. Ballou, 1858-60. illus. f^o.

---- Extra, July, 1858.

=Willett=, Edward. The life of Ulysses S. Grant, general U. S. A.
Comprising the story of his early years ... and a complete history of
his memorable services in the war for the Union. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1885]. 100 p. 16^o.

The =Young New Yorker=; a journal of recreation and world of sport.
v. 1, no. 1-26 (Nov. 25, 1878-May 17, 1879). New York: Adams and Co.,
1878-79. f^o.

  Weekly.

  Sub-title varies slightly.

The =Youth’s casket=. v. 1-6. Buffalo, 1852-57. illus. 8^o.

  Monthly.

  Editors: v. 1, Harley Thorne; v. 2-3, J. O. Brayman; v. 4-6, H. E. G.
  Arey.




MANUSCRIPTS AND MISCELLANEOUS


=Manuscripts.=

BEADLE, Erastus F. New York, March 8, 1865. Letter to David Brooks.
Desires information concerning Jonathan Beadle who moved from New
Jersey to western New York. Autograph letter signed. 1 p. 16^o.

  =Ms. Div.=

---- New York, February 10, 1866. Letter to Joseph Beadle. Requests
genealogical information about the Beadle family. Autograph letter
signed. 1 p. 16^o.

  =Ms. Div.=

CLARK, Charles Dunning. Hop picking season [a story. 186--?].
Manuscript in the handwriting of the author. First 13 pages only. 4^o.

  =Ms. Div.=

LOSSING, Benson John. New York, October 28, 1842. Letter to Erastus F.
Beadle. Favorable criticism of Beadle’s specimens of wood engraving,
with suggestions for further study before trying to locate in New York
City; “the profession is already too full” in New York City. Autograph
letter signed. 2 p. 4^o.

  =Ms. Div.=


=Miscellaneous.=

BUSINESS card of Beadle & Co. 2-1/2 × 4-1/4 in.

CLIPPINGS from The Banner Weekly, 1886-89, regarding Erastus F. Beadle,
and David Adams.

SILVER (or plated) door-plate of Erastus F. Beadle. Lettered E. F.
Beadle. Size 7-1/4 × 3-1/8 in.

PHOTOGRAPH of David Adams, of the firm of Beadle & Adams. With his
autograph. 2-1/2 × 4 in.

PHOTOGRAPH of Erastus F. Beadle. 4 × 6 in.

ENGRAVED portrait of Erastus F. Beadle. Reproduced from the above
photograph. Glazed and framed. 9 × 11 in.

PHOTOGRAPH of the residence of Erastus F. Beadle at Cooperstown, N. Y.
4 × 8 in.




ADDITIONS


The =Banner weekly=. v. 1, no. 9, 12, 28; v. 2, no. 70; v. 3, no. 114,
122; v. 6, no. 267; v. 10, no. 479; v. 11, no. 545 (Jan. 13, Feb. 3,
May 26, 1883, March 15, 1884, Jan. 17, March 14, April 18, 1885, Dec.
24, 1887, Jan. 16, 1892, April 22, 1893). New York: Beadle and Adams,
1883-93. illus. f^o.

  Numbering continuous.

  Title varies: Jan. 13, 1883-April 18, 1885, Beadle’s weekly; Dec. 24,
  1887-April 22, 1893, The Banner weekly.

=Beadle’s American library=; the choicest works of the most popular
authors. no. 14.

WARNER, John S. Isabel de Cordova; or, The brethren of the coast. A
tale of the sea and land. London: Beadle and Co. [186--?] 104 p. 16^o.
(no. 14.)

=Beadle’s dime novels.= no. 231.

LASALLE, Charles E. The Texan trailer; or, Davy Crockett’s last
bear-hunt. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop. 1871.] 84 p. illus. 16^o.
(no. 231.)

=Beadle’s dime song book=.... A collection of new and popular comic and
sentimental songs. no. 15-16, 18-21.

=Beadle’s dime speaker.= no. 6, 21-23, 25.

=Beadle’s library of choice fiction.= no. 6.

JOHNSTONE, Herrick. The messenger; or, The maid of Gresham Grange. A
romance of the Cavaliers and Roundheads. New York: Beadle and Co. [cop.
1864.] 100 p. 16^o. (no. 6.)

=Beadle’s pocket novels.= no. 14, 37, 107.

COMSTOCK, captain. Long Shot; or, The dwarf guide. New York: Beadle and
Adams [cop. 1874]. 100 p. 16^o. (no. 14.)

RANDOLPH, J. H. Carson, the guide; or, Perils of the frontier. New
York: Beadle and Adams [cop. 1870]. 99 p. 16^o. (no. 37.)

NORTH, Ingoldsby. Job Dean, the trapper. New York: Beadle and Adams
[cop. 1868]. 97 p. 16^o. (no. 107.)

=Frank Starr’s ten cent pocket library.= no. 4-5.

STARBUCK, Roger. The boy sea-thugs; or, The pirate’s daughter. A
romance of the lost island. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1877.] 164
p. 24^o. (no. 4.)

ADAMS, James Fenimore Cooper. Lighthouse Lige; or, Osceola, the
firebrand of the Everglades. New York: F. Starr & Co. [cop. 1877.] 158
p. 24^o. (no. 5.)




INDEX OF AUTHORS

Numbers refer to pages.


  A

  Adams, J. F. C.:
    The black spy, 54.
    Buck Buckram, 42.
    Lighthouse Lige, 46, 71, 76.
    Lightning Jo, the terror of the prairie, 42.
    The lost hunters, 46.
    Ned Hazel, the boy trapper, 41, 58.
    Nick Whiffles’ pet, 19, 42, 58.
    Old Grizzly and his pets, 45.
    Old Zip, 55.
    Old Zip’s cabin, 42, 59.
    Oregon Sol, 58.
    The Scalp King, 46.
    The wild huntress, 62.

  Aiken, A. W.:
    Abe Colt, the crowkiller, 42.
    The brigand captain, 65.
    Bronze Jack, the California thoroughbred, 24.
    The California detective, 23.
    Cool Colorado in New York, 50.
    Dick Talbot in No Man’s camp, 36.
    Dick Talbot, the ranch king, 36.
    Dick Talbot’s clean cut, 36.
    Dick Talbot’s close call, 36.
    Eagle Plume, the white avenger, 54.
    Fire Face, the silver king’s foe, 33.
    The Fresh of Frisco at Santa Fé, 34.
    The Fresh in Montana, 35.
    Fresh, the race-track sport, 37.
    The genteel spotter, 30.
    Gentleman George, 19.
    Gideon’s grip at Babylon Bar, 36.
    The High Horse of the Pacific, 32.
    Hunted down, 24.
    The Indian Mazeppa, 24.
    Injun Dick, 37.
    Jackson Blake, the bouncer detective, 35.
    Joe Buck of Angels and his boy pard Paul Powderhorn, 45.
    Joe Phenix in Crazy Camp, 34.
    Keen Billy, the sport, 34.
    King Dandy, the silver sport, 36.
    Kit Carson, king of guides, 21.
    The lion of the sea, 59.
    The Lone Hand on the Caddo, 33.
    Lone Hand, the shadow, 33.
    The Lone Hand in Texas, 32.
    Metamora, the forest king, 57.
    The New York ‘sharp,’ 23.
    Old Benzine, the hard case detective, 34.
    Overland Kit, 19, 37.
    The phantom hand, 19, 24.
    Red Arrow, the wolf demon, 19.
    Red Richard, 30.
    The Silver Sharp detective, 33.
    Sol Ginger, the giant trapper, 42.
    The spotter-detective, 23.
    Talbot in Apache land, 36.
    The two detectives, 58.
    The Wall street blood, 28.
    The white witch, 19.
    The winning oar, 24.
    The wolf demon, 23.
    The wolves of New York, 25.

  Aiken, G. L.:
    Fergus Fearnaught, the New-York boy, 46.

  Aimard, Gustave:
    The bandit at bay, 23.
    The freebooters, 25.
    Loyal Heart, 24.
    Prairie-flower, 23.
    The prairie pirates, 64.
    Red Cedar, the prairie outlaw, 71.
    The tiger-slayer, 23.
    The trapper’s daughter, 23.
    The white scalper, 25.

  Archer, E. W.:
    The bandit hermit, 63.
    Old Lute, the Indian-fighter, 57.

  Arizona Cy, pseud.:
    You Bet Bob from Cross Crick, 53.
    You-Bet Bob’s circus, 53.
    You Bet Bob’s jangle, 53.


  B

  Badger, J. E.:
    Alabama Joe, 25.
    Bantam Bob, the beauty from Butte, 36.
    The Barranca Wolf, 47.
    Big Bandy, the brigadier of Brimstone Butte, 34.
    Big George, the giant of the gulch, 24.
    The black giant, 43, 60.
    Black John, the road-agent, 58.
    The black princess, 55.
    The Black Rider, 47.
    Bob Breeze, the rounder detective, 35.
    The border renegade, 63.
    The boy jockey, 24.
    The boy pards, 44.
    The boy trailers, 44.
    The buried detective, 33.
    Captain Cool Blade, 24.
    Captain Crisp, the man with a record, 31.
    Caribou Zip, 54.
    Chispa Charley, the gold nugget sport, 30.
    The Colorado boys, 20.
    Crooked Cale, the Caliban of Celestial City, 45.
    Dainty Lance, the boy sport, 59.
    Dainty Lance and his pard, 60.
    Dan Brown of Denver, the Rocky Mountain detective, 25.
    Dandy Andy, the diamond detective, 33.
    Dandy Darling, detective, 34.
    Dandy Don, the Denver detective, 36.
    Dandy Dutch, the decorator from Dead-Lift, 33.
    Dark Durg, the Ishmael of the hills, 31.
    Deadly Aim, the duke of Derringers, 31.
    Deadly Dash, 43.
    Death-Trailer, the scourge of the Plain Crees, 54.
    Death-trap diggings, 28.
    Elephant Tom, of Durango, 28.
    Equinox Tom, the bully of Red Rock, 25.
    The forest princess, 55.
    Frank Lightfoot, the miner detective, 29.
    Frank Yates, the young trapper, 21.
    Gabe Gunn, the grizzly from Ginseng, 32.
    The get-there sharp, 35.
    The girl captain, 40, 63.
    Goosehead’s best shot, 62.
    Gopher Gabe, the unseen detective, 34.
    Grip-sack Sid, the sample sport, 33.
    The gripsack sharp’s even-up, 34.
    High-water Mark, the sport, 37.
    Hurricane Bill, 42, 59, 64.
    The Indian spy, 63.
    Jack Rabbit, the prairie sport, 19, 24.
    Joaquin, the saddle king, 25.
    Jumping Jerry, the gamecock from Sundown, 31.
    The king of the woods, 48.
    Laughing Leo, 32.
    Left-handed Pete, the double-knife, 21.
    Light-heart Lute’s last trail, 51.
    The lone chief, 63.
    The mad athlete, 30.
    The mad ranger, 53.
    Major Magnet, the man of nerve, 33.
    The man of muscle, 37.
    Masked Mark, the mounted detective, 30.
    Mink Coat, the death shot, 20.
    Moke Horner, the boss roustabout, 29.
    Mossback Mose, the mountaineer, 34.
    Mustang Sam, the king of the plains, 43.
    Night-Hawk Kit, 43.
    Nor’-West Nick, the border detective, 30.
    Oklahoma Nick, 32.
    The old boy of Tombstone, 27.
    Old Bull’s-Eye, the lightning shot of the plains, 19.
    Old Double Fist, 47.
    Old ’49, 26.
    Old Kit and his comrades, 21.
    Old Sobersides, the detective of St. Louis, 37.
    Pacific Pete, the prince of the revolver, 19.
    Panther Paul, the prairie pirate, 43.
    The partisan spy, 55.
    The prairie tigers, 65.
    Prince John, detective special, 36.
    Red Dan, the ranger, 40.
    Rob Roy Ranch, 31.
    Round the camp-fire, 21.
    Roving Joe, 21.
    A royal flush, 31.
    The secret six, 36.
    Silky Steele, the stay-in sport, 37.
    Silver Blade, the half-blood, 51.
    Silver Blade, the Shoshone, 51.
    Silver-tip Steve, the sky scraper from Siskiyou, 35.
    Silver-tongued Sid, 33.
    Silverblade, the friendly, 51.
    Silverblade, the hostile, 51.
    Solemn Saul, the sad man from San Saba, 32.
    Solemn Saul’s luck streak, 35.
    Spitfire Saul, king of the rustlers, 28.
    The sport from Hard-Luck, 37.
    Spread Eagle Sam, the Hercules hide-hunter, 30.
    Squatter Dick, 63.
    Steel Surry, the sport from Sunrise, 35.
    Sweep-stakes Sam, the silver sport, 36.
    Sweet William, the trapper detective, 26.
    The Texas Hawks, 57.

  Bainbridge, Bryant:
    Jumping Jake, the Colorado circus boy, 20.

  Ballard, J. D.:
    Sparks from the campfire, 18.

  Ballou, M. M.:
    Red Rupert, the American buccaneer, 75.
    The Turkish slave, 75.

  Banks, A. F.:
    Sharpe, the New York detective, 72.

  Barker, Colin:
    The golden belt, 38, 71.

  Barrington, F. Clinton, pseud. _See_ Lewis, J. W.

  Barritt, Frances F.:
    Alicia Newcome, 38.
    East and west, 38.
    The land claim, 38.

  Bayard, Paul:
    Old Gripes, 73.

  Belknap, B. H.:
    Peleg Smith, 64.
    Yankee Josh, the rover, 62.

  Bibbs, Paul:
    Kyd’s bold game, 21.
    Lynx-Cap, 21.
    Red Ax, the Indian giant, 65.
    Red Jacket, the Huron, 63.
    Scarlet Moccasin, 63, 68.

  Blake, Redmond:
    Lightning Leo, the behind-the-scenes detective, 65.
    Lightning Leo’s luck, 65.

  Blount, Margaret, pseud. _See_ O’Francis, Mary.

  Boone, H. L.:
    Big Lige, 66.
    The chief of the cowboys, 67.
    The feathered snake, 67.
    The maid of old Kaintuck, 66.
    The mountain trapper, 66.
    Prairie Pete, 66.
    Reckless Rob, 66.
    Spiky Jonas, 67.
    Tiger-Head, 66.
    Wrestling Ralph, 67.
    Yankee Jim, the horserunner, 67.
    Zoph Slaughter, 66.

  Bowen, J. L.:
    Blue Belt, the guide, 65.
    Border Ben, 68.
    The lost bride, 64.
    The maid of Wyoming, 39.
    Mike, the guide, 68.
    One-Eyed Sim, 42.
    The red-skin’s pledge, 54.
    Scouting Dave, 68.
    Silver City Tom, 62.
    Sim Simpkins, scout, 60.
    Simple Phil, 55.
    Smooth-Face, the scout, 69.
    The young ranger, 68.

  Brentford, Burke:
    Rocky Mountain Sam, 70.

  Broughton, F. L.:
    Paul Prince, detective, 73.

  Brown, W. P.:
    The reporter-detective’s big pull, 53.

  Browne, G. W.:
    Dandy Rock, the man from Texas, 42.
    Dandy Rock’s pledge, 43.
    Dandy Rock’s rival, 44.
    The Esquimaux’ queen, 20.
    The Golden Hand, 43.
    The mad miner, 43.
    The Tiger of Taos, 42.

  Browne, H. K.:
    The loyalist, 70.

  Buckskin Sam, pseud. _See_ Hall, S. S.

  Buntline, Ned, pseud. _See_ Judson, E. Z. C.

  Burr, Dangerfield, pseud. _See_ Ingraham, Prentiss.

  Bushnell, W. H.:
    A lost life, 75.

  Busteed, N. W.:
    King Barnaby, 38.


  C

  Caldwell, J. R.:
    The privateer’s bride, 40.

  Carleton, William:
    Rody, the rover, the ribbonman of Ireland, 25.

  Carlton, Lieutenant:
    Black Douglass, the Jersey City detective, 73.

  Carson, L. W.:
    Black Hills Ben, 60.
    Indian Joe, 46, 56.
    The three trappers, 46.

  Cavendish, Harry:
    The privateer’s cruise, 37, 56, 71.
    The reefer of ’76, 38.

  Chadwick, Henry:
    Beadle’s dime book of cricket, 22.
    Beadle’s dime book of cricket and football, 22.
    Beadle’s dime guide to skating and curling, 22.
    Beadle’s dime hand-book of pedestrianism, 22.
    Handbook of winter sports, 23.

  Clara Augusta, pseud. _See_ Trask, Kate Nichols.

  Clark, C. D.:
    en Bird, the cave king, 47.
    Border vengeance, 64.
    The boy surveyor, 62.
    Captain Paul, the Kentucky moonshiner, 43.
    Captain Ralph, the young explorer, 20.
    The chase of the great white stag, and Camp and canoe, 19.
    Cruise of the Flyaway, 19.
    Despard the spy, 40.
    Eph Peters, 54.
    Eutawan, the slayer, 54.
    The Flyaway afloat, 19.
    The flying scout, 54.
    Giant Pete, the patriot, 40, 63.
    Gilbert, the guide, 26.
    Graybeard, the sorcerer, 56.
    Jim’s big bonanza, 61.
    The king’s fool, 26.
    Kit Bird, king of the mountains, 63.
    Mad Tom Western, the Texan ranger, 42.
    The maid of the mountain, 63.
    Mohawk Nat, 64.
    Mossfoot, the brave, 40, 55.
    Mountain Gid, the free ranger, 40, 54.
    New York Ned in California, 62.
    Old Avoirdupois, 40, 54.
    The pale-face squaw, 56.
    Paul de Lacy, the French beast charmer, 19.
    The peddler spy, 40, 54.
    The prairie queen, 64.
    The prairie scourge, 64.
    The prairie trapper, 64.
    The red brotherhood, 59.
    Red Lightning, 64.
    The red outlaw, 64.
    Red River rovers, 21.
    Rocky Ben’s band, 61.
    Ruth Harland, 39, 55.
    The Shawnees’ foe, 64.
    Single Hand, 59.
    Single Hand, the Comanche Attila, 55.
    The sons of liberty, 64.
    The stone chief, 54.
    Sumter’s scouts, 55.
    The swamp scout, 64.
    The traitor spy, 54.
    The twin scouts, 64.
    Walt Ferguson’s cruise, 19.
    The warrior princess, 54.
    Wenona, the giant chief, 57.
    Wild Rube, the young trail-hunter, 40, 62.
    The Yankee rajah, 45.
    The young land-lubber, 20.

  Cobb, Sylvanus:
    The patriot cruiser, 75.

  Cobb, W. J.:
    Flash Falcon, the society detective, 30.

  Cody, W. F.:
    Deadly-Eye, and The prairie rover, 19.
    Deadly-Eye, the unknown scout, 58.
    Death Trailer, the chief of scouts, 24.
    The dread shot four, 37.
    Fancy Frank, of Colorado, 43.
    Kansas King, 53.
    The phantom spy, 53.
    The wizard brothers, 31.

  Collins, E. Burke, pseud. _See_ Sharkey, Emma Augusta Brown.

  Comstock, Captain:
    The b’ar-killer, 56.
    Long Shot, 56, 76.
    The one-eyed trapper, 56.
    Red Claw, the one-eyed trapper, 46.

  Coomes, Oll:
    Antelope Abe, the boy guide, 53.
    Baby Sam, the boy giant of the Yellowstone, 49.
    Blundering Basil, the hermit boy trapper, 50.
    The border king, 42.
    The boy ranger, 56.
    Dakota Dan, the reckless ranger, 23.
    Dare-Devil Dan, the young prairie ranger, 46.
    Dashing Dick, 45.
    The disguised guide, 45.
    The dumb spy, 58.
    Eagle Kit, the boy demon, 43.
    Foghorn Phil, the king of the border, 55.
    The giant rifleman, 24.
    Hercules, the dumb destroyer, 49.
    Idaho Tom, the young outlaw of Silverland, 19.
    Keen-Knife, prince of the prairies, 58.
    Kit Bandy and Co., the border detectives, 34.
    Kit Bandy “rattled,” 52.
    Kit Bandy’s brigade, 52.
    Little Hurricane, the boy captain, 44.
    Little Texas, the young mustanger, 43.
    Little Wildfire, the young prairie nomad, 45.
    Old Kit Bandy’s compromise, 53.
    Old Solitary, the hermit trapper, 44.
    Old Strategy, 65.
    Old Tom Rattler, the Red River epidemic, 49.
    One-armed Alf, the giant hunter of the Great Lakes, 25.
    The parson detective, 45.
    Prospect Pete, of the boy brigade, 44.
    Rainbolt, the ranger, 57.
    The sky demon, 46.
    Sure Shot Seth, 53.
    Tiger Tom, the Texan terror, 45.
    Tom, the Texan tiger, 60.
    Trapper Tom’s castle mystery, 60.
    Web-Foot Mose, the tramp detective, 49.

  Cowdrick, J. C.:
    Bicycle Bob’s hot scorch, 53.
    Billy, the kid from Texas, 61.
    Blue Grass Burt, the gold star detective, 31.
    Broadway Billy baffled, 52.
    Broadway Billy in clover, 51.
    Broadway Billy’s boodle, 50.
    Broadway Billy’s queer bequest, 52.
    Broadway Billy’s shadow chase, 52.
    Broadway Billy’s signal scoop, 52.
    Broadway Billy’s team, 52.
    Cibuta John, the prickly pear from Cactus Plains, 49.
    The detective’s apprentice, 49.
    Disco Dan, the daisy dude, 49.
    Ducats Dion, the nabob sport detective, 34.
    The giant cupid, 31.
    Kentucky Jean, the sport from Yellow Pine, 32.
    The mountain graybeards, 33.
    Shasta, the gold king, 48.
    Sheriff Stillwood, the regulator of Raspberry, 34.
    Silver-Mask, the man of mystery, 48.
    Twilight Charlie, the road sport, 32.

  Curtis, N. M.:
    The blue brotherhood, 18.
    Giant Jake, the patrol of the mountains, 28.
    Old Tiger, the patriot, 69.
    The Texan spy, 18, 68.


  D

  Defoe, Daniel:
    Life of Robinson Crusoe, 65.

  De Forrest, Harry:
    Lion-hearted Leon, 18.
    The snow hunters, 20.

  Denison, Mary A.:
    Captain Molly, 39, 55.
    Chip, the cave-child, 38.
    The prisoner of La Vintresse, 38.
    Ruth Margerie, 38, 56.
    Tim Bumble’s charge, 39, 64.

  Dewey, F. H.:
    The canyon pards, 50.
    Cimarron Jack, the king pin of rifle-shots, 47.
    The dog trailer, 57.
    The specter horseman, 62.
    Tangemund, the desert detective, 49.

  Duganne, A. J. H.:
    The king’s man, 39, 56.
    Massasoit’s daughter, 38.
    The peon prince, 38.
    Putnam Pomfret’s ward, 38, 55.

  Dumont, D. B.:
    The old river sport, 31.
    Salamander Sam, 32.
    Topnotch Tim, the mad parson, 32.
    The white crook, 31.

  Dumont, Frank:
    Blue Blazes, 43, 59.
    The branded hand, 43.
    Ebony Dan, 44.
    Ebony Dan’s mask, 60.
    Evil Eye, king of cattle thieves, 44.
    Wide-a-wake, the robber king, 24.

  Dunbar, Noel:
    The detective in rags, 34.
    Duke Despard, the gambler duellist, 36.


  E

  Edwards, C. L.:
    The Dacotah queen, 22.

  Ellis, E. S.:
    The boy miners, 42, 56, 62.
    The boy pioneer, 57.
    Chinga, the Cheyenne, 68.
    Deborah Sampson, the girl soldier, 65.
    The forest spy, 38, 71.
    The frontier angel, 38, 41, 71.
    The fugitives, 39.
    The half-blood, 46.
    The huge hunter, 46, 57.
    The hunted hunter, 43, 59.
    The hunter’s cabin, 39.
    Indian Jim, 39, 57.
    Irona, 65, 71.
    Kent, the ranger, 21.
    Life and adventures of Colonel David Crockett, 70.
    Life of Pontiac, 70.
    Life of Tecumseh, 22, 70.
    Life and times of Boone, 22.
    The lost trail, 39.
    Mariano, the Ottawa girl, 20, 21.
    Marion’s men, 65.
    The mystic canoe, 57.
    Nat Todd, 71.
    Nathan Todd, 38.
    Old Kent, the ranger, 56.
    Oonomoo, the Huron, 71.
    The Phantom horseman, 57.
    The Quaker scout, 55.
    The rangers of the Mohawk, 39, 56.
    The riflemen of the Miami, 38, 55, 71.
    The rival hunters, 65.
    Seth Jones, 38, 41, 70.
    The settler’s son, 21.
    The trail-hunters, 71.

  Emerald, John:
    The crested serpent, 54.

  Emerson, Edwin:
    Dingle, the outlaw, 57.
    Dusky Darrell, trapper, 45.
    The green ranger, 57.
    The mad horseman, 54.
    Minonee, the wood witch, 20.
    The phantom hunter, 62.
    Sharp-Shooter Sam, 21.
    The wood witch, 62.

  Enton:
    Mastonell, the mysterious detective, 72.

  Eyster, W. R.:
    Belshazzar Brick, the bailiff of Blue Blazes, 33.
    Captain Cutsleeve, 27.
    Dandy Darke, 44, 60.
    Dandy Darke’s pards, 60.
    Derringer Deck, the man with the drop, 30.
    Desert Alf, the man with the cougar, 34.
    Diamond Dave, the gilt-edge shooter, 52.
    Double Cinch Dan, the sport with a charm, 35.
    The dude from Denver, 32.
    The dude detective, 33.
    Faro Frank of High Pine, 45.
    Gentleman Dave, the dead game sport, 37.
    Gilt-Edge Johnny, 35.
    Hair Trigger Tom of Red Bend, 31.
    Hands up, 26.
    Harry Winkle’s long chase, 62.
    Hurrah Harry, the high-horse from Halcyon, 33.
    Lucky Lester’s lone hand, 35.
    Magic Mike, the man of frills, 28.
    Mr. Jackson, the gent from Jaybird, 35.
    Old Handcart’s big dump, 34.
    Oregon, the sport with a scar, 33.
    Pistol pards, 25.
    The rival rovers, 36.
    Seven Shot Steve, 33.
    Six-Foot Sol, the sharp-shooter, 53.
    Snapshot Sam, the pistol sharp, 31.
    Soft Hand, sharp, 25.
    The sport of Silver Bend, 36.
    The sport in velvet, 53.
    The stranger sport’s shake-up, 37.
    Three handsome sports, 30.
    The Tie-To Sport, 52.
    The two cool sports, 27.
    Uncle Bedrock’s big bounce, 36.
    Waving Plume, 68.


  F

  Finn, F. S.:
    The boy clown, 58.

  Flack:
    Indian Jake, 66.

  Fleming, May A. E.:
    Hates and loves, 39.
    Madge Wylde, the young man’s ward, 38.
    Sybil Campbell, 71.

  Forrest, Christopher:
    Captain Bob, the mountain devil, 66.
    Jack Long, 66.
    The Onondaga giant, 66.
    The outlaw’s bride, 66.
    The outlaw’s sister, 67.
    Put Martin, 67.
    Sol Anderson, 67.

  Forrest, E. B.:
    The cowboy duke, 50.

  Fort, Frank:
    Lion-heart Lee, the Lakeside detective, 65.


  G

  Gleason, George:
    Sancho Sam’s shot, 21.
    Tippy, the Texan, 43, 55.
    Wistah, the child spy, 62.

  Grainger, A. M.:
    The aunt’s plot, 69.
    The mysterious spy, 24.

  Greeley, R. F.:
    The partisan’s oath, 67.

  Grissom, A. C.:
    Little Fox Foot, the Gold Bowie kid, 49.
    The sure shot pards, 50.

  Griswold, Sandy:
    The Chippewa guide, 71.


  H

  Hall, S. S.:
    Arizona Jack, 46.
    Bald Head’s pards, 60.
    Bandera Bill, 48.
    The bayou bravo, 28.
    Big Foot Wallace, the king of the lariat, 26.
    The black bravo, 26.
    Bowlder Bill, 29.
    The Brazos tigers, 27.
    Buckskin Ben, of Texas, 61.
    Chiota, the Creek, 48.
    Creeping Cat, the Caddo, 47.
    The crooked three, 28.
    Dark Dashwood, the desperate, 26.
    Desperate Duke, the Guadaloupe “galoot,” 27.
    Diamond Dick, the dandy from Denver, 26.
    Double Dan, the dastard, 28.
    The fighting trio, 47.
    Frio Fred, 47.
    Frio Fred in Texas, 61.
    Giant George, the ang’l of the range, 45.
    Giant George’s revenge, 60.
    Ker-Whoop, ker-whoo! 47.
    King Kent, 30.
    Kit Carson, jr., the crack shot of the west, 23.
    Little Lone Star, 49.
    The merciless marauders, 29.
    Mountain Mose, the gorge outlaw, 28.
    Old Rocky’s “boyees,” 45.
    Old Rocky’s boys, 60.
    Paint Pete, the prairie patrol, 32.
    The prince of Pan-out, 30.
    The ranch raiders, 48.
    Raybold, the rattling ranger, 29.
    Rocky Mountain Al, 27.
    Romeo and the reds, 48.
    The rough riders, 28.
    The serpent of El Paso, 27.
    Snap-Shot Sam, 61.
    Stampede Steve, 29.
    The strange pard, 47.
    The Tarantula of Taos, 46.
    The terrible Tonkaway, 26.
    The terrible trio, 27.
    Wild Will, the mad ranchero, 24.
    Wild Wolf, the Waco, 48.

  Hall, W. J.:
    The slave sculptor, 38, 71.

  Halsey, H. P.:
    Black Raven, the Georgia detective, 74.
    The giant detective’s last “shadow,” 74.
    Lights and shades of New York, 74.
    Mademoiselle Lucie, the French lady detective, 74.
    Mephisto, 74.
    Monte-Cristo Ben, the ever-ready detective, 74.
    Night scenes in New York, 74.
    Old Electricity, the lightning detective, 74.
    Old Ironsides abroad, 74.
    Old Ironsides at his best, 74.
    Old Ironsides in New York, 74.
    Old Phenomenal, 74.
    Old Sleuth’s luck, 74.
    Old Terrible, the iron-arm detective, 74.
    On their track, 74.
    The silent terror, 74.
    Tom Thumb, 74.
    Tragedy and strategy, 74.
    The Yankee detective, 74.

  Hamilton, W. J., pseud. _See_ Clark, C. D.

  Harbaugh, T. C.:
    Arkansaw, the man with the knife, 44.
    The bantam sport, 52.
    Big Benson, the Brazos bombshell, 47.
    Bill Bravo, and his bear pards, 45.
    Billy Bantam, the boy beagle, 51.
    The Boy exiles of Siberia, 19.
    The boy shadow, 49.
    Branded Ben, the night ferret, 50.
    Broadcloth Burt, the Denver dandy, 29.
    The buckskin detective, 46.
    California Claude, the lone bandit, 30.
    The California sleuth, 32.
    Captain Apollo, the king-pin of Bowie, 46.
    Captain Bullet, the raider king, 45.
    Captain Cobra, the hooded mystery, 33.
    Captain Coldgrip’s long trail, 32.
    Captain Coldgrip’s nerve, 31.
    Captain Cutlass, the ocean spider, 48.
    Captain Sid, the Shasta ferret, 33.
    Captain Velvet’s big stake, 32.
    The city vampires, 49.
    Clip, the Battery ferret, 52.
    The condor killers, 20.
    Cool Conrad, the Dakota detective, 30.
    Denver Duke, the man with “sand,” 30.
    The desperate dozen, 30.
    Dictionary Nat, detective, 60.
    Dodger Dick, the dock ferret, 50.
    Dodger Dick, the wharf-spy detective, 50.
    Dodger Dick’s best dodge, 50.
    Dodger Dick’s desperate case, 50.
    Dodger Dick’s double, 50.
    The dude desperado, 35.
    Dynamite Dan, 46.
    Eagle Ned, 52.
    Felix Fox, the boy spotter, 49.
    Flash Dan, the nabob, 30.
    Fox and Falcon, the Bowery shadows, 50.
    The girl avenger, 62.
    Gold Trigger, the sport, 43, 59.
    The hidden lodge, 41.
    The island trapper, 62.
    Judge Lynch, jr., 43.
    Keen Kennard, the Shasta shadow, 31.
    Kent Keen, the crook-crusher, 37.
    Kiowa Charley, the white mustanger, 43.
    Kit Harefoot, the wood-hawk, 42.
    Kit, the pavement sharp, 51.
    Little Lon, the street singer detective, 51.
    The lost bonanza, 31.
    Lucifer Lynx, the wonder detective, 32.
    Merciless Matt, 57.
    The mountain detective, 46.
    Navajo Nick, the boy gold hunter, 44.
    Ned Temple, the border boy, 44.
    Nightingale Nat, 58.
    Old Crossfire’s crisis, 62.
    Old Eclipse, trump card of Arizona, 47.
    Old Rube, the hunter, 42.
    Old Winch, the rifle king, 46.
    The pampas hunters, 20.
    Piney Paul, the mountain boy, 59.
    Pitiless Matt, the white slayer, 47.
    Plucky Phil, of the mountain trail, 45.
    Red pard and yellow, 34.
    Rough Rob of Dynamite, 48.
    Shadowing the London detective, 37.
    Silk Hand, the Mohave ferret, 33.
    Silk Ribbon’s crush-out, 37.
    The silken lasso, 49.
    Silver Steve, the branded sport, 36.
    Single Sight, the one-eyed sport, 50.
    Snow-Shoe Tom, 19.
    The snow-trail, 19.
    The squaw spy, 62.
    Stung Serpent, the last chief of the Natchez, 68.
    Sunshine Sam, chip of the old block, 32.
    The ten pards, 47.
    Texas Trump, the border rattler, 49.
    Tornado Tom, 44.
    Velvet Foot, the Indian detective, 48.
    White Lightning, 60.

  Harkaway, Jack, pseud. _See_ Hemyng, Bracebridge.

  Harney, F. X.:
    The headless body, 74.
    The Saratoga detective, 73.

  Hazard, Harry:
    Dusky Dick’s duel, 61.
    The heart-eater, 57.
    The mad hunter, 63.
    Ned, the roving miner, 61.
    Red-Skin Tom, 47.
    The scarlet shoulders, 62.
    The white outlaw, 57.

  Hazel, Fred.:
    Lotta, the young lady detective, 72.

  Hazleton, Harry:
    Billy Bowlegs, the Seminole chief, 63.
    Captain Hayward’s spy, 69.
    The gulf pirate, 68.
    Old Nancy’s ward, 62.
    The prisoner of the mill, 18.
    Quindaro, 55.
    The Schuylkill rangers, 65.
    The Silver Bugle, 21, 39.

  Hemyng, Bracebridge:
    Island Jim, 59.
    Jack Harkaway in a duel, 75.
    Jack Harkaway in New York, 59.

  Henderson, J. S.:
    Ben Bandy, the boss pard, 61.
    The Cherokee chief, 63.
    Karaibo, 63.
    The lost cache, 39, 63.
    The man in green, 64.
    Missing Jo, 22.
    Ned Starling, 55.
    Prairie Chick, 65.
    Red Plume, the renegade, 63.
    The trader spy, 40, 64.
    The unseen hand, 63.
    The willing captive, 22.

  Hill, G. C.:
    The mysterious letter, 70.

  Hoffman, J. M.:
    Dasher Dick’s dead lock, 61.

  Holmes, Hamilton, pseud. _See_ Harbaugh, T. C.

  Holmes, Howard, pseud. _See_ Harbaugh, T. C.

  Holt, A. F.:
    Black Buckskin, 48.
    Little Lightfoot, the pilot of the woods, 49.
    Panther Dick’s death-leap, 61.

  Howard, Charles, pseud. _See_ Harbaugh, T. C.

  Howard, Jack:
    The clique of crime, 73.
    The Cornwall tragedy, 73.
    The great Barry case, 73.
    Hawkeye & Ferrit, the shrewd Bowery detectives, 73.
    Old Sledge, the blacksmith detective, 73.

  Howard, Jane:
    Zelda, 75.

  Hunter, Marcy:
    Snake-Eye Sol, 67.
    White Wolf, 67.
    Wolf-Fang Fritz, 67.


  I

  Ingraham, J. H.:
    Arthur Denwood, 67.
    Charles Blackford, 67.
    The eagle crest, 66.
    Ellen Hart, 67.
    The flying cloud, 67.
    The Flying Fish, 66.
    Forrestal, 66.
    The hunted slaver, 66.
    The hunted sloop, 66.
    Jeannette Wetmore, 67.
    The Kennebec cruiser, 66.
    Lafitte, 29.
    The Mexican bravo, 67.
    Moloch, the money-lender, 66.
    Nick’s mate, 67.
    The ocean bloodhound, 67.
    The patriot cruiser, 66.
    Ramero, 66.
    The red arrow, 67.
    The ring dove, 66.
    The silver bottle, 66.
    The steel mask, 66.
    The Texan ranger, 66.
    A Yankee blue-jacket, 66.

  Ingraham, Prentiss:
    Adrian, the pilot, 57.
    Arizona Charlie, the crack shot detective, 36.
    Arizona Joe, the boy pard of Texas Jack, 49.
    Bison Bill, the prince of reins, 45.
    Black Beard, the buccaneer, 27.
    Buccaneer Bess, the lioness of the sea, 27.
    Buck Taylor, the Comanche captive, 51.
    Buck Taylor, king of the cowboys, 50.
    Buffalo Bill’s bet, 60.
    Buffalo Bill’s body guard, 36.
    Buffalo Bill’s crackshot pard, 52.
    Buffalo Bill’s flush hand, 36.
    Buffalo Bill’s redskin ruse, 37.
    Buffalo Bill’s secret service trail, 35.
    Buffalo Bill’s snap-shot, 53.
    Buffalo Bill’s tough tussle, 53.
    Captain of captains, 40.
    Captain Crimson, the man of the iron face, 25.
    The coast corsair, 31.
    The cowboy clan, 35.
    The Cuban conspirator, 40.
    Cutlass and cross, 28.
    Dashing Charlie, the young scalp taker, 51.
    The Dead Shot Dandy, 46.
    Dead-Shot Ralph’s drop, 52.
    Diamond Dirk, 58.
    The fatal frigate, 31.
    The Flying Yankee, 53, 57.
    The gambler pirate, 26.
    Gold Plume, the boy bandit, 44.
    Grit, the bravo sport, 45.
    The hussar captain, 59.
    The Jew detective, 35.
    Keno Kit, the boy bugler’s pard, 47.
    The lasso king’s league, 35.
    Lone Star, the cowboy captain, 45.
    The mad mariner, 25.
    The magic ship, 30.
    The mysterious marauder. 47.
    The new Monte Cristo, 31.
    Ocean Ogre, the outcast corsair, 32.
    The one armed buccaneer, 32.
    The phantom Mazeppa, 26.
    The pirate priest, 28.
    The pony-express rider, 61.
    Queen Helen, the amazon of the overland, 28.
    Ralph, the death-shot scout, 51.
    Ralph Roy, the boy buccaneer, 58.
    Red Lightning, the man of chance, 27.
    The rover detective, 51.
    Roy, the young cattle king, 60.
    The Sea Trailer, 60.
    The shadow ship, 42, 59.
    The skeleton schooner, 26.
    The specter yacht, 27.
    Texas Jack, the mustang king, 21.
    The vagabond of the mines, 51.
    Velvet Face, the border bravo, 25.
    Wild Bill, the pistol dead shot, 26.
    The wild steer riders, 37.
    The young cowboy, 60.

  Inman, R. R.:
    Dandy Dick, detective, 65.

  Iron, N. C.:
    Agnes Falkland, 39.
    The double hero, 38, 56.
    The dragoon’s bride, 55.
    Gideon Godbold, 38.
    Godbold, the spy, 56, 62.
    The maid of Esopus, 38, 41.
    Stella, the daughter of liberty, 38.
    The unknown, 39, 56.

  Irons, A. C.:
    The boy rifles, 58.


  J

  James, Mrs. Orrin:
    The border rivals, 56.
    Old Jupe, 64.

  James, W. I.:
    Dion, the dashing detective, 72.
    The frontier detective, 73.
    Heller’s pupil, 72.
    Lightning Gripp, the cautious detective, 72.
    Old Cap Collier, 72.
    Old Cap Collier & Co., 72.
    Scott, Elliott & Co., the three great detectives, 72.
    The seaside detective, 72.
    Young Dillon, the Custom House detective, 72.
    Young Ironclad, the keen detective, 72.

  Jenks, G. C.:
    The demon doctor, 50.
    The giant horseman, 31.

  Jerome, Gilbert:
    Dominick Squeek, the Bow Street runner, 73.
    Isaac Lazarus, 73.
    Old Roulette, 73.
    Old Subtle, 74.
    The ten-spot of diamonds, 73.
    Young Weasel, the detective, 74.

  Johnson, Francis:
    Alapaha, the squaw, 18, 25.
    The border bandits, 25.
    The bush ranger, 25.
    The death track, 23.
    The giant trailer, 68.
    The outlaw-hunter, 18, 25, 69.

  Johnstone, Herrick:
    The messenger, 76.
    Sam Sutton, the scalp-taker, 66.
    The scout of ’76, 57.

  Judson, E. Z. C.:
    Ethelbert, the shell-hunter, 20.
    Long Tom, the privateer, 35.
    The red privateer, 34.
    Red Ralph, the river rover, 48.
    The red revenger, 71.
    Saul Sabberday, the idiot spy, 25, 68.
    The sea bandit, 23, 69.
    The sea spy, 34.
    The smuggler, 69.
    Tombstone Dick, the train pilot, 31.
    War-Eagle, 66.
    The white wizard, 23, 68.


  K

  Kelly, G. C.:
    Bowery Ben, in Chinatown, 52.
    Dan, the river sport, 52.

  Klapp, H. M.:
    Tom Pintle, the pilot, 62.

  Knox, Jackson:
    Captain Clew, the fighting detective, 36.
    The hurricane detective, 36.


  L

  Lasalle, C. E.:
    The buffalo-trapper, 55.
    Burt Bunker, the trapper, 41, 56.
    The Texan trailer, 76.

  Lawson, W. B.:
    Out with the Apache kid, 70.

  Lenoir, Leon:
    Brave as the bravest, 18.
    The massacre of Wyoming, 18.

  Lewis, C. B.:
    Mad Dan, the spy of 1776, 19.

  Lewis, J. W.:
    Fitz-Hern, 75.
    Red Hand, 75.
    The young fisherman, 75.

  Lewis, Juan:
    The sea serpent, 41.

  Lewis, Leon:
    Captain Ready, the red ransomer, 32.
    Daredeath Dick, the king of the cowboys, 34.
    The down-east detective in Nevada, 37.
    Pistol Tommy, the miner sharp, 37.
    ind River Clark, the gold hermit, 37.

  Lippard, George:
  ’Bel of Prairie Eden, 67.

  Lisenbee, William:
    Maverick Mose, the Arizona detective, 51.

  Little, C.:
    Denver Dan and the counterfeiters, 68.
    Denver Dan and his mystic band, 68.

  Lytton, Edward:
    Bullion Bret, the giant grip, 65.


  M

  McCartney, J. W.:
    The Fenians, 75.

  M’Govan, James:
    Brought to bay, 73.
    The Edinburgh detective, 73.
    Secret confessions, 73.

  Mahler, Gamboge:
    War Eagle, 71.

  Manly, Marline, pseud. _See_ Rathborne, St. George.

  Manning, W. H.:
    Alkali Abe, the game-chicken from Texas, 34.
    Bluff Burke, king of the Rockies, 32.
    Buckshot Ben, the man-hunter of Idaho, 27.
    Bullet Head, the Colorado bravo, 28.
    Cactus Jack, the giant guide, 26.
    Canyon Dave, the man of the mountain, 27.
    Colorado Rube, the strong arm of Hotspur City, 29.
    Dark John, the grim guard, 34.
    Dead Shot Paul, the deep-range explorer, 35.
    Deep Duke, the silent sleuth, 32.
    Don Sombrero, the California road gent, 26.
    Frisco Frank at Glory Gulch, 37.
    Gabe Gall, the gambolier from Great Hump, 36.
    Garry Kean, the man with backbone, 33.
    The gold-dragon, 29.
    Heavy Hand, the relentless, 29.
    Horseshoe Hank, the man of big luck, 29.
    Hotspur Hugh, 30.
    Iron-armed Abe, the hunchback destroyer, 28.
    Kentuck Talbot’s band, 60.
    Lady Jaguar, the robber queen, 26.
    Lightning Bolt, the canyon terror, 29.
    Long-haired Max, 27.
    Murdock, the dread detective, 34.
    Rustler Rube, the round-up detective, 34.
    The Scorpion brothers, 27.
    Silver-plated Sol, the Montana rover, 29.
    Spokane Saul, the Samaritan suspect, 36.
    Stonefist, of Big Nugget Bend, 28.
    Texas Chick, the southwest detective, 28.
    Wild West Walt, the mountain veteran, 32.
    Wyoming Zeke, the hotspur of Honeysuckle, 33.
    Young Kentuck, 46.

  Maori, Old Cap., pseud.:
    Old Thunderbolt, the government detective, 72.
    Samson, the strong detective, 73.

  Marshall, J. J.:
    The deer-hunters, 22.
    The outlaw brothers, 42.

  Meredith, C. L.:
    Bow and paddle, 71.

  Merrick, Mark:
    Detective Jack, 73.
    A house of mystery, 73.

  Merrill, J. M.:
    Kinkfoot Karl, the mountain scourge, 29.

  Millbank, H. R.:
    The jungle scout, 63.

  Miller, Warne:
    Tracked by the dead, 73.

  Monstery, T. H.:
    California Joe’s first trail, 48.
    Champion Sam, 27.
    Corporal Cannon, the man of forty duels, 26.
    El Rubio Bravo, king of the swordsmen, 25.
    Mourad, the Mameluke, 25.
    Rocky Mountain Joe, 61.

  Montgomery, R. R.:
    Kilpatrick’s charge, 67.

  Morris, A. P.:
    Hank Hound, the Crescent City detective, 27.
    The head hunter, 30.
    The man of steel, 26.
    Mark Magic, detective, 29.
    Tom Turner, detective, 73.

  Morris, Charles:
    Bob Rockett, the bank runner, 60.
    Bob Rockett, the boy dodger, 44, 59.
    Cool Clark’s rash race, 61.
    Cop Colt, the Quaker City detective, 30.
    The dandy detective, 60.
    Dick, the stowaway, 20.
    Fred Flyer, detective, 61.
    Handsome Harry, the bootblack detective, 59.
    Harry, the country boy, in New York, 61.
    Honest Harry, 20.
    A hot trail, 20.
    The lost finger, 49.
    Mike Merry, the harbor police boy, 59.
    Moscow to Siberia, 20.
    New York Tim, 61.
    Picayune Pete, 59.
    Sam, the office boy, 60.
    The street Arab detective, 61.
    Tim, the boy acrobat, 20.
    The trapped Tiger King, 60.
    “A trump card,” 44.
    The two ‘bloods,’ 45.
    Will Somers, the boy detective, 43.
    Will Wildfire in the woods, 43.
    The young nihilist, 20.

  Morse, Edward:
    The lone star of Texas, 18.

  Muller, Billex:
    Joe Napyank, 57.

  Murray, Captain:
    The white brave, 55.
    Wingenund, the young trail-hunter, 55.

  Myers, P. H.:
    Bell Brandon, 70.
    The first of the Knickerbockers, 70.
    Fort Stanwix, 69.
    The gold crushers, 70.
    Nick Doyle, the gold hunter, 62.


  N

  Neal, John:
    The moose-hunter, 55.
    The white-faced pacer, 56.

  “Ned.”:
    Southern Sam, 71.

  “Noname.”:
    Dandy Dan of Deadwood and his great divide, 68.

  North, Ingoldsby:
    Job Dean, the trapper, 76.

  Nunes, J. A.:
    The patriot scouts, 63.


  O

    O’Francis, Mary:
    A dangerous woman, 69.

  Old Cap. Collier, pseud. _See_ James, W. I.

  Old Kit, pseud.:
    Detective Dawson, 72.

  Olmstead, E. K.:
    One-eyed Jake, 72.

  Omohundro, J. B.:
    Ned Wylde, the boy scout, 58.

  Oshon, J. W.:
    Cactus Burr, the man from Hard Luck, 50.
    Gold-Dust Dan, the trail patrol, 51.
    Gold-Dust Dan’s snapshot, 52.
    Old Buckeye, the Sierra shadow, 50.
    The rival giants of Nowhar, 49.
    Royal Richard, the thoroughbred, 33.
    The sport from St. Louis, 36.


  P

  Pad, Peter:
    Chips and Chin Chin, the two orphans, 67.

  Pannell, C. H. H.:
    Life of George Washington, 70.

  Park, Edward:
    “Old Stars,” 18.
    The signal gun, 18.
    The swamp hero, 19.

  Patten, J. A.:
    Sharp Sam, 59.

  Patten, W. G.:
    Aztec Jack, the desert nomad, 34.
    Captain Mystery, 50.
    Clear-Grit Cal, the never-say-die detective, 52.
    Colonel Cool, the Santa Fe sharp, 34.
    Cowboy Steve, the ranch mascot, 52.
    Daisy Dare, the sport from Denver, 50.
    The Diamond Sport, 49.
    Fire-eye, the thugs’ terror, 37.
    The giant sport, 35.
    Goldglove Gid, the man of grit, 34.
    Hurricane Hal, the cowboy hotspur, 35.
    Hustler Harry, the cowboy sport, 33.
    Nobby Nat, the tenderfoot detective, 52.
    Old Burke, the Madison Square detective, 36.
    Old Misery, the man from Missouri, 51.
    Old Plug Ugly, the rough and ready, 35.
    Old True Blue, the trusty, 35.
    Sam Sheridan, the secret service special, 52.
    Sharper Stokes’ double deal, 52.
    The sparkler sharp, 35.
    Spotter Bob in New York, 52.
    Spotter Bob’s Bowery racket, 52.
    Violet Vane, the vanquished, 51.
    Violet Vane’s vow, 51.
    Wild Vulcan, the lone range-rider, 51.

  Paulding, Decatur:
    The brigantine, 39, 55.

  Payne, Harold, pseud. _See_ Kelly, G. C.

  Pearce, S. W.:
    The ocean bloodhound, 41.

  Perry, H. D.:
    Captain Kit, the will-o’-the-wisp, 44.

  Pierce, Jo:
    The big four of the Bowery, 52.
    Buck Bumblebee, the Harlem hummer, 51.
    Sky-Rocket Rob, the life-saver, 51.

  Piper, A. G.:
    Red Hand, 56.

  Porter, Ann E.:
    Guilty or not guilty, 39, 65.
    Jack’s snare, 62.

  Post, A. H., pseud. _See_ Badger, J. E.

  Powell, Frank:
    The doomed dozen, 25.
    The dragoon detective, 36.

  Prentice, G. H.:
    The death shot, 69.
    Gottlieb Gottsoock, 22.
    The marked bullet, 22.
    The test shot, 65.
    The wood-demon, 69.

  Prentiss, G. H. _See_ Prentice, G. H.

  Prescott, P. J.:
    The cannibal chief, 63, 68.


  R

  Ralph the reefer, pseud.:
    The Florida pirate, 75.

  Randolph, J. H.:
    Carson, the guide, 76.

  Rathborne, St. George:
    Daring Davy, 59.
    Daring Davy, the young bear killer, 42.
    Hickory Harry, 43.
    The marked moccasin, 68.
    Mexican Mose, 75.
    Old Hickory, 42, 58.
    Roaring Ralph Rockwood, the reckless ranger, 58.
    The snow-shoe trail, 20.
    Thunderbolt Tom, 44.

  Redwing, Morris, pseud. _See_ Merrill, J. M.

  Reid, Mayne:
    Blue Dick, 42.
    The captain of the rifles, 24.
    The Cuban patriot, 71.
    Gaspar, the gaucho, 20.
    The gold-seeker guide, 45.
    The helpless hand, 43, 57.
    The hunters’ feast, 27.
    The ocean hunters, 19.
    The rifle rangers, 26.
    The scalp-hunters, 19.
    The specter barque, 24.
    The white squaw, 19, 28.
    The wild huntress, 27.
    The Yellow Chief, 59.

  Rexford, G. C., compiler:
    Beadle’s dime school melodist, 74.

  Ringgold, Barry:
    New York Jack’s mettle, 61.
    Old Traps, 20.

  Robins, Seelin:
    The specter chief, 56.
    The valley scout, 63.

  Robinson, J. H.:
    The artist’s bride, 69.
    Ben Brion, the trapper captain, 26.
    Hirl, the hunchback, 68.
    Marion’s brigade, 72.
    Mountain Max, 18.
    Nightshade, 23.
    The pioneers, 72.
    Redpath, the avenger, 68.
    The Royal Greens, 72.
    Silver Knife, 24.
    The uncle’s crime, 69.
    Whitelaw, 23.

  Rodman, Emerson:
    Mad Anthony’s scouts, 62.
    The wood rangers, 69.

  Rolfe, M. O.:
    Clyde, the trailer, 63, 68.
    Diamond Dan, the Brooklyn divorce detective, 73.
    The dwarf decoy, 62.
    The man-hunter, 57.

  Rolins, Sergeant:
    The Long Branch detective, 72.

  Routledge, Edmund:
    Beadle’s dime handbook of croquet, 23.


  S

  St. George, Harry, pseud. _See_ Rathborne, St. George.

  St. John, P. B.:
    The big hunter, 24.
    Blackhawk, the bandit, 54.
    Keetsea, queen of the plains, 64.
    Queen of the woods, 40.
    The silent hunter, 24.
    The white canoe, 54.

  St. John, Warren:
    The scout, 57.
    Single Eye, the scourge, 57.

  St. Vrain, E. L.:
    Avalanche Alf, the foothills guide, 48.
    Brimstone Bob, and his lightning horse quartette, 47.
    Jaguar Joe, 48.
    Sancho Pedro, the boy bandit, 46.

  Sara, Delle, pseud. _See_ Whittaker, Frederick.

  Sawyer, E. T.:
    Millions at stake, 73.

  Saxe, Burton:
    The black hunter, 68.
    The mad hunter, 43.

  Scott, S. S.:
    Mustang Merle’s mandate, 65.

  Sharkey, Emma A. B.:
    Dare, the detective, 72.

  Sherwood, S. R.:
    Rattlepate, 40.
    The vailed benefactress, 40.

  Shillaber, B. P.:
    Mrs. Partington’s ridicule, 75.

  Sims, A. K.:
    Captain Cactus, the Chaparral cock, 50.
    The doctor detective in Texas, 52.
    Gid Gale’s block game, 37.
    Happy Hans, the Dutch Vidocq, 51.
    Huckleberry, the foot hills detective, 33.
    Kansas Karl, the detective king, 34.
    Kent Kirby, the high kicker from Killbuck, 52.
    The king-pin of the Leadville lions, 37.
    Lodestone Lem, the champion of Chestnut Burr, 36.
    Prince Primrose, the flower of the flock, 33.
    The river rustlers, 35.
    The rustler of Rolling Stone, 52.
    Signal Sam, the lookout scout, 51.
    The Silver Sport, 50.
    Singer Sam, the pilgrim detective, 35.
    The six-shot spotter, 37.
    Stuttering Sam, the whitest sport of Santa Fe, 35.
    Teamster Tom, the boomer detective, 36.
    The Texan detective, 37.
    The Texan firebrand, 53.
    The tramp’s trump-trick, 53.

  Smith, Elizabeth O. P.:
    Bald Eagle, 55.
    The Sagamore of Saco, 40, 56.

  Starbuck, Roger:
    Big Horn Ike, the hill tramp, 48.
    The black schooner, 43, 59.
    The blue anchor, 54.
    The boy captain, 58.
    The boy coral-fishers, 20.
    The boy sea-thugs, 76.
    Cast away, 39.
    Dead-Shot Ike, 61.
    Fireheels, 47.
    Foul-weather Jack, 40.
    Frisky Frank in Idaho, 61.
    The golden harpoon, 39, 57.
    The ice-fiend, 40.
    Jolly Skipper Jack, 21.
    The lost ship, 40, 54.
    Old tar Knuckle and his boy chums, 20.
    On the deep, 39.
    The pearl pirates, 63.
    The phantom lighthouse, 48.
    Port at last, 40.
    The rival rovers, 40, 55.
    The sea captain, 56.
    The slaver captain, 68.
    The son of the sea, 68.
    The specter skipper, 53.

  Stedman, Dick:
    Chickahominy, 18.
    Guerrillas and regulars, 18.

  Stephens, Ann S. W.:
    Ahmo’s plot, 39.
    Esther, 39.
    The Indian queen, 56.
    Malaeska, 37, 71.
    Myra, the child of adoption, 56.
    Sybil Chase, 41.

  Stoddard, H. B.:
    The boy vigilantes, 20.
    Kid-Glove Kit, 48.
    Kid Glove Kit and pard, 48.
    The mad man hunter, 49.
    Neck-Tie Ned, the lariat-thrower, 46.
    Pony, the cowboy chief, 61.

  Sumner, C. P.:
    The water waif, 56.


  T

  Taylor, A. B.:
    Buffalo Bill’s bet, 44.
    Buffalo Billy, the boy bullwhacker, 44.

  Texas Jack, pseud. _See_ Omohundro, J. B.

  Thomas, H. J.:
    Comanche Dick and his three invincibles, 49.
    Laughing Eyes, 39.
    Queen Bessie, the border girl, 20.
    The wrecker’s prize, 39, 56.
    The wrong man, 56.

  Thomas, Mrs. H. J.:
    Border Bessie, 64.

  Thorne, A. B.:
    Peacock Pete, the lively lad from Leadville, 47.

  Trask, Kate N.:
    Winifred Winthrop, 38, 56.

  Tuel, J. E.:
    The ranchero, 69.


  U

  United States.--Adjutant General’s Office:
    Major-General Sherman’s reports, 21.
    Official report of Lieut.-Gen. Grant, 21.

  United States.--Statutes:
    National Tax Law, 21.

  Urban, S. R.:
    Owlet, the robber prince, 26.


  V

  Verne, Ilian:
    Phil, the scout, 75.

  Victor, Metta V. F.:
    Alice Wilde, the raftsman’s daughter, 71.
    The backwoods bride, 38, 71.
    The housewife’s manual, 22.
    Maum Guinea, and her plantation “children,” 38.
    Myrtle, the child of the prairie, 39.
    Turkey Dan, 19.
    Uncle Ezekiel and his exploits on two continents, 38.
    The Unionist’s daughter, 39.

  Victor, O. J.:
    Life of Anthony Wayne, 70.
    Life and exploits of John Paul Jones, 70.
    Life of Joseph Garibaldi, 22.
    Life of Maj.-Gen. McClellan, 22.
    Private and public life of Abraham Lincoln, 70.
    Life and times of Colonel Ethan Allen, 70.
    Life and times of Israel Putnam, 70.

  Vose, J. D.:
    B’hoys of Yale, 23.


  W

  Walker, George:
    The three Spaniards, 25.

  Walters, H. R.:
    Vidocq, the French detective, 72.

  Waring, M. H.:
    The three spotters, 65.
    The three spotters’ hot heat, 65.

  Warne, P. S.:
    Always-on-hand, 24.
    Bareback Buck, the centaur of the plains, 32.
    Black-Hoss Ben, 29.
    Californy Kit, the always on hand, 31.
    Captain Arizona, the king pin of road-agents, 44.
    Captain Mask, the lady road-agent, 44.
    Captain Midnight, the man of craft, 33.
    Dan Dirk, king of No Man’s land, 37.
    The gentleman from Pike, 25.
    Honest Jack’s protege, 61.
    Jack Sand, the boss of the town, 30.
    Jim Dandy, the no-name sport, 51.
    Jim Gladden’s deputy, 50.
    The jolly pards to the rescue, 50.
    The kidnapper, 23.
    Little Ah Sin, 49.
    Little Jingo, 48.
    Little Oh-my, 48.
    Little Shoo Fly, 49.
    A man of nerve, 24.
    Old Hard Head, 27.
    Old Weasel-top, the man with the dogs, 50.
    Patent-leather Joe, 42.
    Sandy Andy, 50.
    Silver Riffle Sid, 31.
    Three of a kind, 29.
    Tiger Dick, the faro king, 23.
    Tiger Dick, the man of the iron heart, 26.
    Tiger Dick vs. Iron Despard, 28.
    Yellow Jack, the mestizo, 31.

  Warner, J. S.:
    Afloat and ashore, 56.
    The black ship, 39, 49, 57.
    Isabel de Cordova, 76.
    The wreck of the Albion, 39.

  Warren, C. D.:
    Killb’ar, the guide, 46.

  Warren, J. T.:
    Doblado, the outlaw, 68.
    Old Ben Manx, 69.
    Old Guess Markham, 69.
    Old Hal Williams, 18.
    Old Peggy Boggs, 18, 69.
    The traitor’s doom, 18.

  Warren, U. S.:
    Prisoners of war, 19.

  Weaver, Dick:
    Dick Weaver’s great keno songster, 69.

  Wheeler, E. L.:
    Apollo Bill, the trail tornado, 45.
    Bob Woolf, the border ruffian, 41, 58.
    Boss Bob, the king of bootblacks, 59.
    Buckhorn Bill, 42, 58.
    The Buffalo Demon, 58.
    Chip, the girl sport, 59.
    Colorado Charlie’s detective dash, 61.
    Corduroy Charlie, the boy bravo, 59.
    Cyclone Kit, the young gladiator, 45.
    Deadwood Dick on deck, 42, 59.
    Deadwood Dick in Leadville, 59.
    Deadwood Dick, the prince of the road, 57.
    Deadwood Dick’s dream, 44.
    Deadwood Dick’s eagles, 42, 58.
    Deadwood Dick, jr. in Texas, 50.
    Deadwood Dick, jr.’s drop, 51.
    Death-Face, the detective, 58.
    Detective Josh Grim, 60.
    The double daggers, 58.
    First-Class Fred, the gent from Gopher, 48.
    The frontier detective, 60.
    Gold Rifle, the sharpshooter, 53, 59.
    High Hat Harry, the base ball detective, 49.
    Hurricane Nell, the girl dead-shot, 69.
    Jack Hoyle, the young speculator, 43.
    Jim Bludsoe, jr., the boy phenix, 41.
    Jim, the sport, in Wake-Up, 61.
    Kangaroo Kit, 47.
    Manhattan Mike, the Bowery blood, 47.
    Nabob Ned, 48.
    New York Nell, the boy-girl detective, 60.
    Nobby Nick of Nevada, 44.
    Old Avalanche, the great annihilator, 41, 58.
    Omaha Oll, the masked terror, 58.
    The phantom miner, 58.
    Photograph Phil, the boy sleuth, 59.
    Rosebud Rob, 42.
    Sierra Sam, the frontier ferret, 45.
    Sierra Sam’s pard, 46.
    Sierra Sam’s secret, 45.
    Sierra Sam’s seven, 46.
    Solid Sam, the boy road-agent, 43.
    Tiny Fox, the Ferret, 59.
    The ventriloquist detective, 60.
    Watch-Eye, the shadow, 42.
    Wild Frank, the buckskin bravo, 44, 60.
    Wild Ivan, the boy Claude Duval, 58.
    Yreka Jim, the gold gatherer, 48.
    Yreka Jim’s joker, 48.

  Whittaker, Frederick:
    Alligator Ike, 28.
    Black Nick, the demon rider, 47.
    Black Nick, the hermit of the hills, 63.
    The black wizard, 54.
    Boone, the hunter, 63.
    The boy crusader, 20.
    California Joe’s war trail, 48.
    Cool Desmond, 44.
    The corsair prince, 54.
    The death’s-head rangers, 54.
    Dick Darling, the pony express rider, 41, 58.
    Dick Darling, the pony expressman, 64.
    The dumb page, 41.
    The fog devil, 28.
    The grizzly-hunters, 53.
    The ice elephant, 20.
    Jabez Coffin, 59.
    Jack, Harry and Tom, the three champion brothers, 20.
    John Armstrong, mechanic, 31.
    The mad hussars, 27.
    The marshal of Satanstown, 29.
    The mustang-hunters, 64.
    Old Double Sword, 28.
    Old Pop Hicks, showman, 31.
    One Eye, the cannoneer, 26.
    Red Rudiger, the archer, 25.
    Rifle and revolver, 21.
    The rock rider, 24.
    The Russian spy, 23.
    The Saucy Jane, privateer, 29.
    The scarlet captain, 24.
    The sea-cat, 58.
    The sea king, 40, 54.
    Silver Sam, 24.
    The squaw chief, 54.
    The tiger tamer, 46.
    Top Notch Tom, the cowboy outlaw, 29.
    The twin horsemen, 60.
    The white gladiator, 54.
    The whitest man in the mines, 30.
    Wolfgang, the robber of the Rhine, 45.
    Woods and waters, 21.

  Wild Bill, pseud.:
    The death of Sitting Bull, 74.

  Wilder, W. W.:
    Cowboy Chris in Cinnabar, 53.
    Cowboy Chris, the vengeance volunteer, 65.

  Willett, Edward:
    Asa Scott, the steamboat boy, 43.
    Bill Beeler’s bonanza, 61.
    Bill, the blizzard, 27.
    The border foes, 64.
    The boy cruisers, 20.
    Buck Farley, the bonanza prince, 27.
    The bushwhacker’s daughter, 69.
    The canyon king, 31.
    Clip, the contortionist, 47.
    The cotton thief, 18, 69.
    Dan Dillon, king of Crosscut, 30.
    Fearless Phil, 46.
    Flush Fred, the Mississippi sport, 28.
    Flush Fred’s double, 29.
    Flush Fred’s full hand, 29.
    The forest specter, 21.
    Hemlock Hank, tough and true, 29.
    The hunted life, 55.
    Kate Sharp, 69.
    The life of Ulysses S. Grant, 70, 75.
    Logger Lem, 29.
    New York Bill, the dodger, 61.
    Old Gabe, the mountain tramp, 30.
    Old Honesty, 55.
    Peddler Paul’s pard, 21.
    The roving sport, 47.
    The Scioto scouts, 63.
    The silver bullet, 69.
    Silverspur, 61, 63.
    Snow Bird, 55.
    The swamp scout, 69.
    Swiftwing, the squaw, 54.
    Terrapin Dick, the wild-wood detective, 30.
    The three captives, 64.
    The Tonkawa spy, 64.
    True blue, 69.
    The Vicksburg spy, 18, 69.

  Williams, H. L.:
    Seth, the skrimmager, 67.

  Williams, J. B.:
    The buccaneers, 75.
    Joaquin, 75.

  Wilmot, Walter:
    Dashing Delany, 18.

  Wilton, Mark, pseud. _See_ Manning, W. H.

  Woglom:
    Sergeant detective Sparrow, L. J. C., 73.


  Y

  Yards, Jo:
    Black Sam, the prairie thunderbolt, 28.




INDEX OF TITLES

Numbers refer to pages.


  A

  Abe Colt, the crowkiller, A. W. Aiken, 42.

  Adrian, the pilot, Prentiss Ingraham, 57.

  Afloat and ashore, J. S. Warner, 56.

  Agnes Falkland, N. C. Iron, 39.

  Ahmo’s plot, Ann S. W. Stephens, 39.

  Alabama Joe, J. E. Badger, 25.

  Alapaha, the squaw, Francis Johnson, 18, 25.

  Alice Wilde, the raftsman’s daughter, Metta V. F. Victor, 71.

  Alicia Newcome, Frances F. Barritt, 38.

  Alkali Abe, the game-chicken from Texas, W. H. Manning, 34.

  Alligator Ike, Frederick Whittaker, 28.

  Always-on-hand, P. S. Warne, 24.

  Antelope Abe, the boy guide, Oll Coomes, 53.

  Apollo Bill, the trail tornado, E. L. Wheeler, 45.

  Arizona Charlie, the crack shot detective, Prentiss Ingraham, 36.

  Arizona Jack, S. S. Hall, 46.

  Arizona Joe, the boy pard of Texas Jack, Prentiss Ingraham, 49.

  Arkansaw, the man with the knife, T. C. Harbaugh, 44.

  Arthur Denwood, J. H. Ingraham, 67.

  The Artist’s bride, J. H. Robinson, 69.

  Asa Scott, the steamboat boy, Edward Willett, 43.

  The Aunt’s plot, A. M. Grainger, 69.

  Avalanche Alf, the foothills guide, E. L. St. Vrain, 48.

  Aztec Jack, the desert nomad, W. G. Patten, 34.


  B

  Baby Sam, the boy giant of the Yellowstone, Oll Coomes, 49.

  The Backwoods bride, Metta V. F. Victor, 38, 71.

  Bald Eagle, Elizabeth O. P. Smith, 55.

  Bald Head’s pards, S. S. Hall, 60.

  Bandera Bill, S. S. Hall, 48.

  The Bandit at bay, Gustave Aimard, 23.

  The Bandit hermit, E. W. Archer, 63.

  Bantam Bob, the beauty from Butte, J. E. Badger, 36.

  The Bantam sport, T. C. Harbaugh, 52.

  The B’ar-Killer, Captain Comstock, 56.

  Bareback Buck, the centaur of the plains, P. S. Warne, 32.

  The Barranca Wolf, J. E. Badger, 47.

  The Bayou bravo, S. S. Hall, 28.

  The Beautiful unknown, 64.

  ’Bel of Prairie Eden, George Lippard, 67.

  Bell Brandon, P. H. Myers, 70.

  Belshazzar Brick, the bailiff of Blue Blazes, W. R. Eyster, 33.

  Ben Bandy, the boss pard, J. S. Henderson, 61.

  Ben Bird, the cave king, C. D. Clark, 47.

  Ben Brion, the trapper captain, J. H. Robinson, 26.

  B’hoys of Yale, J. D. Vose, 23.

  Bicycle Bob’s hot scorch, J. C. Cowdrick, 53.

  Big Bandy, the brigadier of Brimstone Butte, J. E. Badger, 34.

  Big Benson, the Brazos bombshell, T. C. Harbaugh, 47.

  Big Foot Wallace, the king of the lariat, S. S. Hall, 26.

  The Big four of the Bowery, Jo Pierce, 52.

  Big George, the giant of the gulch, J. E. Badger, 24.

  Big Horn Ike, the hill tramp, Roger Starbuck, 48.

  The Big hunter, P. B. St. John, 24.

  Big Lige, H. L. Boone, 66.

  Bill Beeler’s bonanza, Edward Willett, 61.

  Bill, the blizzard, Edward Willett, 27.

  Bill Bravo, and his bear pards, T. C. Harbaugh, 45.

  Bill Dane, the detective, 72.

  Billy Bantam, the boy beagle, T. C. Harbaugh, 51.

  Billy Bowlegs, the Seminole chief, Harry Hazleton, 63.

  Billy, the kid from Texas, J. C. Cowdrick, 61.

  Bison Bill, the prince of reins, Prentiss Ingraham, 45.

  Black Beard, the buccaneer, Prentiss Ingraham, 27.

  The Black bravo, S. S. Hall, 26.

  Black Buckskin, A. F. Holt, 48.

  Black Douglass, the Jersey City detective, Lieutenant Carlton, 73.

  The Black giant, J. E. Badger, 43, 60.

  Black Hills Ben, L. W. Carson, 60.

  Black-Hoss Ben, P. S. Warne, 29.

  The Black hunter, Burton Saxe, 68.

  Black John, the road-agent, J. E. Badger, 58.

  Black Nick, the demon rider, Frederick Whittaker, 47.

  Black Nick, the hermit of the hills, Frederick Whittaker, 63.

  The Black princess, J. E. Badger, 55.

  Black Raven, the Georgia detective, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  The Black Rider, J. E. Badger, 47.

  Black Sam, the prairie thunderbolt, Jo Yards, 28.

  The Black schooner, Roger Starbuck, 43, 59.

  The Black ship, J. S. Warner, 39, 49, 57.

  The Black spy, J. F. C. Adams, 54.

  The Black wizard, Frederick Whittaker, 54.

  Blackhawk, the bandit, P. B. St. John, 54.

  The Blue anchor, Roger Starbuck, 54.

  Blue Belt, the guide, J. L. Bowen, 65.

  Blue Blazes, Frank Dumont, 43, 59.

  The Blue brotherhood, N. M. Curtis, 18.

  Blue Dick, Mayne Reid, 42.

  Blue Grass Burt, the gold star detective, J. C. Cowdrick, 31.

  Bluff Burke, king of the Rockies, W. H. Manning, 32.

  Blundering Basil, the hermit boy trapper, Oll Coomes, 50.

  Bob Breeze, the rounder detective, J. E. Badger, 35.

  Bob Rockett, the bank runner, Charles Morris, 60.

  Bob Rockett, the boy dodger, Charles Morris, 44, 59.

  Bob Woolf, the border ruffian, E. L. Wheeler, 41, 58.

  Boone, the hunter, Frederick Whittaker, 63.

  The Border bandits, Francis Johnson, 25.

  Border Ben, J. L. Bowen, 68.

  Border Bessie, Mrs. H. J. Thomas, 64.

  The Border foes, Edward Willett, 64.

  The Border king, Oll Coomes, 42.

  The Border renegade, J. E. Badger, 63.

  The Border rivals, Mrs. Orrin James, 56.

  Border vengeance, C. D. Clark, 64.

  Boss Bob, the king of bootblacks, E. L. Wheeler, 59.

  Bow and paddle, C. L. Meredith, 71.

  Bowery Ben, in Chinatown, G. C. Kelly, 52.

  Bowlder Bill, S. S. Hall, 29.

  The Boy captain, Roger Starbuck, 58.

  The Boy captive, 65.

  The Boy clown, F. S. Finn, 58.

  The Boy coral-fishers, Roger Starbuck, 20.

  The Boy cruisers, Edward Willett, 20.

  The Boy crusader, Frederick Whittaker, 20.

  The Boy exiles of Siberia, T. C. Harbaugh, 19.

  The Boy jockey, J. E. Badger, 24.

  The Boy miners, E. S. Ellis, 42, 56, 62.

  The Boy pards, J. E. Badger, 44.

  The Boy pioneer, E. S. Ellis, 57.

  The Boy ranger, Oll Coomes, 56.

  The Boy rifles, A. C. Irons, 58.

  The Boy sea-thugs, Roger Starbuck, 76.

  The Boy sentinel, 65.

  The Boy shadow, T. C. Harbaugh, 49.

  The Boy surveyor, C. D. Clark, 62.

  The Boy trailers, J. E. Badger, 44.

  The Boy vigilantes, H. B. Stoddard, 20.

  Brace, the American detective, 73.

  Branded Ben, the night ferret, T. C. Harbaugh, 50.

  The Branded hand, Frank Dumont, 43.

  Brave as the bravest, Leon Lenoir, 18.

  The Brazos tigers, S. S. Hall, 27.

  The Brigand captain, A. W. Aiken, 65.

  The Brigantine, Decatur Paulding, 39, 55.

  Brimstone Bob, and his lightning horse quartette, E. L. St. Vrain, 47.

  Broadcloth Burt, the Denver dandy, T. C. Harbaugh, 29.

  Broadway Billy baffled, J. C. Cowdrick, 52.

  Broadway Billy in clover, J. C. Cowdrick, 51.

  Broadway Billy’s boodle, J. C. Cowdrick, 50.

  Broadway Billy’s queer bequest, J. C. Cowdrick, 52.

  Broadway Billy’s shadow chase, J. C. Cowdrick, 52.

  Broadway Billy’s signal scoop, J. C. Cowdrick, 52.

  Broadway Billy’s team, J. C. Cowdrick, 52.

  Bronze Jack, the California thoroughbred, A. W. Aiken, 24.

  Brought to bay, James M’Govan, 73.

  Buccaneer Bess, the lioness of the sea, Prentiss Ingraham, 27.

  The Buccaneers, J. B. Williams, 75.

  Buck Buckram, J. F. C. Adams, 42.

  Buck Bumblebee, the Harlem hummer, Jo Pierce, 51.

  Buck Farley, the bonanza prince, Edward Willett, 27.

  Buck Taylor, the Comanche captive, Prentiss Ingraham, 51.

  Buck Taylor, king of the cowboys, Prentiss Ingraham, 50.

  Buckhorn Bill, E. L. Wheeler, 42, 58.

  Buckshot Ben, the man-hunter of Idaho, W. H. Manning, 27.

  Buckskin Ben, of Texas, S. S. Hall, 61.

  The Buckskin detective, T. C. Harbaugh, 46.

  Buffalo Bill’s bet, Prentiss Ingraham, 60.

  Buffalo Bill’s bet, A. B. Taylor, 44.

  Buffalo Bill’s body guard, Prentiss Ingraham, 36.

  Buffalo Bill’s crackshot pard, Prentiss Ingraham, 52.

  Buffalo Bill’s flush hand, Prentiss Ingraham, 36.

  Buffalo Bill’s redskin ruse, Prentiss Ingraham, 37.

  Buffalo Bill’s secret service trail, Prentiss Ingraham, 35.

  Buffalo Bill’s snap-shot, Prentiss Ingraham, 53.

  Buffalo Bill’s tough tussle, Prentiss Ingraham, 53.

  Buffalo Billy, the boy bullwhacker, A. B. Taylor, 44.

  The Buffalo Demon, E. L. Wheeler, 58.

  The Buffalo-trapper, C. E. Lasalle, 55.

  Bullet Head, the Colorado bravo, W. H. Manning, 28.

  Bullion Bret, the giant grip, Edward Lytton, 65.

  The Buried detective, J. E. Badger, 33.

  Burt Bunker, the trapper, C. E. Lasalle, 41, 56.

  The Bush ranger, Francis Johnson, 25.

  The Bushwhacker’s daughter, Edward Willett, 69.


  C

  Cactus Burr, the man from Hard Luck, J. W. Osbon. 50

  Cactus Jack, the giant guide, W. H. Manning, 26.

  California Claude, the lone bandit, T. C. Harbaugh, 30.

  The California detective, A. W. Aiken, 23.

  California Joe’s first trail, T. H. Monstery, 48.

  California Joe’s war trail, Frederick Whittaker, 48.

  The California sleuth, T. C. Harbaugh, 32.

  Californy Kit, the always on hand, P. S. Warne, 31.

  Camp and canoe, C. D. Clark, 19.

  The Cannibal chief, P. J. Prescott, 63, 68.

  Canyon Dave, the man of the mountain, W. H. Manning, 27.

  The Canyon king, Edward Willett, 31.

  The Canyon pards, F. H. Dewey, 50.

  Captain Apollo, the king-pin of Bowie, T. C. Harbaugh, 46.

  Captain Arizona, the king pin of road-agents, P. S. Warne, 44.

  Captain Bob, the mountain devil, Christopher Forrest, 66.

  Captain Bullet, the raider king, T. C. Harbaugh, 45.

  Captain Cactus, the Chaparral cock, A. K. Sims, 50.

  Captain of captains, Prentiss Ingraham, 40.

  Captain Clew, the fighting detective, Jackson Knox, 36.

  Captain Cobra, the hooded mystery, T. C. Harbaugh, 33.

  Captain Coldgrip’s long trail, T. C. Harbaugh, 32.

  Captain Coldgrip’s nerve, T. C. Harbaugh, 31.

  Captain Cool Blade, J. E. Badger, 24.

  Captain Crimson, the man of the iron face, Prentiss Ingraham, 25.

  Captain Crisp, the man with a record, J. E. Badger, 31.

  Captain Cutlass, the ocean spider, T. C. Harbaugh, 48

  Captain Cutsleeve, W. R. Eyster, 27.

  Captain Hayward’s spy, Harry Hazleton, 69.

  Captain John Howard, detective, of Greene county, S. N. Y., 73.

  Captain Kit, the will-o’-the-wisp, H. D. Perry, 44.

  Captain Mask, the lady road-agent, P. S. Warne, 44.

  Captain Midnight, the man of craft, P. S. Warne, 33.

  Captain Molly, Mary A. Denison, 39, 55.

  Captain Mystery, W. G. Patten, 50.

  Captain Paul, the Kentucky moonshiner, C. D. Clark, 43.

  Captain Ralph, the young explorer, C. D. Clark, 20.

  Captain Ready, the red ransomer, Leon Lewis, 32.

  The Captain of the rifles, Mayne Reid, 24.

  Captain Sid, the Shasta ferret, T. C. Harbaugh, 33.

  Captain Velvet’s big stake, T. C. Harbaugh, 32.

  Caribou Zip, J. E. Badger, 54.

  Carl Ruhl, the phenomenal detective, 73.

  Carson, the guide, J. H. Randolph, 76.

  Cast away, Roger Starbuck, 39.

  Champion Sam, T. H. Monstery, 27.

  Charles Blackford, J. H. Ingraham, 67.

  The Chase of the great white stag, C. D. Clark, 19.

  The Cherokee chief, J. S. Henderson, 63.

  Chickahominy, Dick Stedman, 18.

  The Chief of the cowboys, H. L. Boone, 67.

  Chinga, the Cheyenne, E. S. Ellis, 68.

  Chiota, the Creek, S. S. Hall, 48.

  Chip, the cave-child, Mary A. Denison, 38.

  Chip, the girl sport, E. L. Wheeler, 59.

  The Chippewa guide, Sandy Griswold, 71.

  Chips and Chin Chin, the two orphans, Peter Pad, 67.

  Chispa Charley, the gold nugget sport, J. E. Badger, 30.

  Cibuta John, the prickly pear from Cactus Plains, J. C. Cowdrick, 49.

  Cimarron Jack, the king pin of rifle-shots, F. H. Dewey, 47.

  The City vampires, T. C. Harbaugh, 49.

  Clear-Grit Cal, the never-say-die detective, W. G. Patten, 52.

  Clip, the Battery ferret, T. C. Harbaugh, 52.

  Clip, the contortionist, Edward Willett, 47.

  The Clique of crime, Jack Howard, 73.

  Clyde, the trailer, M. O. Rolfe, 63, 68.

  The Coast corsair, Prentiss Ingraham, 31.

  Colonel Cool, the Santa Fe sharp, W. G. Patten, 34.

  The Colorado boys, J. E. Badger, 20.

  Colorado Charlie’s detective dash, E. L. Wheeler, 61.

  Colorado Rube, the strong arm of Hotspur City, W. H. Manning, 29.

  Comanche Dick and his three invincibles, H. J. Thomas, 49.

  The Condor killers, T. C. Harbaugh, 20.

  Cool Clark’s rash race, Charles Morris, 61.

  Cool Colorado in New York, A. W. Aiken, 50.

  Cool Conrad, the Dakota detective, T. C. Harbaugh, 30.

  Cool Desmond, Frederick Whittaker, 44.

  Cop Colt, the Quaker City detective, Charles Morris, 30.

  Corduroy Charlie, the boy bravo, E. L. Wheeler, 59.

  The Cornwall tragedy, Jack Howard, 73.

  Corporal Cannon, the man of forty duels, T. H. Monstery, 26.

  The Corsair prince, Frederick Whittaker, 54.

  The Cotton thief, Edward Willett, 18, 69.

  Cowboy Chris in Cinnabar, W. W. Wilder, 53.

  Cowboy Chris, the vengeance volunteer, W. W. Wilder, 65.

  The Cowboy clan, Prentiss Ingraham, 35.

  The Cowboy duke, E. B. Forrest, 50.

  Cowboy Steve, the ranch mascot, W. G. Patten, 52.

  Creeping Cat, the Caddo, S. S. Hall, 47.

  The Crested serpent, John Emerald, 54.

  Crooked Cale, the Caliban of Celestial City, J. E. Badger, 45.

  The Crooked three, S. S. Hall, 28.

  Cruise of the Flyaway, C. D. Clark, 19.

  The Cuban conspirator, Prentiss Ingraham, 40.

  The Cuban patriot, Mayne Reid, 71.

  Cutlass and cross, Prentiss Ingraham, 28.

  Cyclone Kit, the young gladiator, E. L. Wheeler, 45.


  D

  The Dacotah queen, C. L. Edwards, 22.

  Dainty Lance, the boy sport, J. E. Badger, 59.

  Dainty Lance and his pard, J. E. Badger, 60.

  Daisy Dare, the sport from Denver, W. G. Patten, 50.

  Dakota Dan, the reckless ranger, Oll Coomes, 23.

  Dan Brown of Denver, the Rocky Mountain detective, J. E. Badger, 25.

  Dan Dillon, king of Crosscut, Edward Willett, 30.

  Dan Dirk, king of No Man’s land, P. S. Warne, 37.

  Dan, the river sport, G. C. Kelly, 52.

  Dandy Andy, the diamond detective, J. E. Badger, 33.

  Dandy Dan of Deadwood and his great divide, “Noname,” 68.

  Dandy Darke, W. R. Eyster, 44, 60.

  Dandy Darke’s pards, W. R. Eyster, 60.

  Dandy Darling, detective, J. E. Badger, 34.

  The Dandy detective, Charles Morris, 60.

  Dandy Dick, detective, R. R. Inman, 65.

  Dandy Don, the Denver detective, J. E. Badger, 36.

  Dandy Dutch, the decorator from Dead-Lift, J. E. Badger, 33.

  Dandy Rock, the man from Texas, G. W. Browne, 42.

  Dandy Rock’s pledge, G. W. Browne, 43.

  Dandy Rock’s rival, G. W. Browne, 44.

  A Dangerous woman, Mary O’Francis, 69.

  Dare, the detective, Emma A. B. Sharkey, 72.

  Dare-Devil Dan, the young prairie ranger, Oll Coomes, 46.

  Daredeath Dick, the king of the cowboys, Leon Lewis, 34.

  Daring Davy, St. George Rathborne, 59.

  Daring Davy, the young bear killer, St. George Rathborne, 42.

  Dark Dashwood, the desperate, S. S. Hall, 26.

  Dark Durg, the Ishmael of the hills, J. E. Badger, 31.

  Dark John, the grim guard, W. H. Manning, 34.

  Dasher Dick’s dead lock, J. M. Hoffman, 61.

  Dashing Charlie, the young scalp taker, Prentiss Ingraham, 51.

  Dashing Delany, Walter Wilmot, 18.

  Dashing Dick, Oll Coomes, 45.

  The Dead Shot Dandy, Prentiss Ingraham, 46.

  Dead-Shot Ike, Roger Starbuck, 61.

  Dead Shot Paul, the deep-range explorer, W. H. Manning, 35.

  Dead-Shot Ralph’s drop, Prentiss Ingraham, 52.

  Deadly Aim, the duke of Derringers, J. E. Badger, 31.

  Deadly Dash, J. E. Badger, 43.

  Deadly-Eye, W. F. Cody, 19.

  Deadly-Eye, the unknown scout, W. F. Cody, 58.

  Deadwood Dick on deck, E. L. Wheeler, 42, 59.

  Deadwood Dick in Leadville, E. L. Wheeler, 59.

  Deadwood Dick, the prince of the road, E. L. Wheeler, 57.

  Deadwood Dick’s dream, E. L. Wheeler, 44.

  Deadwood Dick’s eagles, E. L. Wheeler, 42, 58.

  Deadwood Dick, jr. in Texas, E. L. Wheeler, 50.

  Deadwood Dick, jr.’s drop, E. L. Wheeler, 51.

  Death-Face, the detective, E. L. Wheeler, 58.

  The Death shot, G. H. Prentice, 69.

  The Death of Sitting Bull, Wild Bill, pseud., 74.

  The Death track, Francis Johnson, 23.

  Death Trailer, the chief of scouts, W. F. Cody, 24.

  Death-Trailer, the scourge of the Plain Crees, J. E. Badger, 54.

  Death-trap diggings, J. E. Badger, 28.

  The Death’s-head rangers, Frederick Whittaker, 54.

  Deborah Sampson, the girl soldier, E. S. Ellis, 65.

  Deep Duke, the silent sleuth, W. H. Manning, 32.

  The Deer-hunters, J. J. Marshall, 22.

  The Demon doctor, G. C. Jenks, 50.

  The Demon hunter, 67.

  Denver Dan and the counterfeiters, C. Little, 68.

  Denver Dan and his mystic band, C. Little, 68.

  Denver Duke, the man with “sand,” T. C. Harbaugh, 30.

  Derringer Deck, the man with the drop, W. R. Eyster, 30.

  Desert Alf, the man with the cougar, W. R. Eyster, 34.

  Despard the spy, C. D. Clark, 40.

  The Desperate dozen, T. C. Harbaugh, 30.

  Desperate Duke, the Guadaloupe “galoot,” S. S. Hall, 27.

  Detective Dawson, Old Kit, pseud., 72.

  Detective Jack, Mark Merrick, 73.

  Detective Josh Grim, E. L. Wheeler, 60.

  The Detective in rags, Noel Dunbar, 34.

  The Detective’s apprentice, J. C. Cowdrick, 49.

  Diamond Dan, the Brooklyn divorce detective, M. O. Rolfe, 73.

  Diamond Dave, the gilt-edge shooter, W. R. Eyster, 52.

  Diamond Dick, the dandy from Denver, S. S. Hall, 26.

  Diamond Dirk, Prentiss Ingraham, 58.

  The Diamond Sport, W. G. Patten, 49.

  Dick Darling, the pony express rider, Frederick Whittaker, 41, 58.

  Dick Darling, the pony expressman, Frederick Whittaker, 64.

  Dick Despard, the Missouri detective, 74.

  Dick, the stowaway, Charles Morris, 20.

  Dick Talbot in No Man’s camp, A. W. Aiken, 36.

  Dick Talbot, the ranch king, A. W. Aiken, 36.

  Dick Talbot’s clean cut, A. W. Aiken, 36.

  Dick Talbot’s close call, A. W. Aiken, 36.

  Dictionary Nat, detective, T. C. Harbaugh, 60.

  Dingle, the outlaw, Edwin Emerson, 57.

  Dion, the dashing detective, W. I. James, 72.

  Disco Dan, the daisy dude, J. C. Cowdrick, 49.

  The Disguised guide, Oll Coomes, 45.

  Doblado, the outlaw, J. T. Warren, 68.

  The Doctor detective in Texas, A. K. Sims, 52.

  Dodger Dick, the dock ferret, T. C. Harbaugh, 50.

  Dodger Dick, the wharf-spy detective, T. C. Harbaugh, 50.

  Dodger Dick’s best dodge, T. C. Harbaugh, 50.

  Dodger Dick’s desperate case, T. C. Harbaugh, 50.

  Dodger Dick’s double, T. C. Harbaugh, 50.

  The Dog trailer, F. H. Dewey, 57.

  Dominick Squeek, the Bow Street runner, Gilbert Jerome, 73.

  Don Sombrero, the California road gent, W. H. Manning, 26.

  The Doomed dozen, Frank Powell, 25.

  Double Cinch Dan, the sport with a charm, W. R. Eyster, 35.

  The Double daggers, E. L. Wheeler, 58.

  Double Dan, the dastard, S. S. Hall, 28.

  The Double hero, N. C. Iron, 38, 56.

  The Down-east detective in Nevada, Leon Lewis, 37.

  The Dragoon detective, Frank Powell, 36.

  The Dragoon’s bride, N. C. Iron, 55.

  The Dread shot four, W. F. Cody, 37.

  Ducats Dion, the nabob sport detective, J. C. Cowdrick, 34.

  The Dude from Denver, W. R. Eyster, 32.

  The Dude desperado, T. C. Harbaugh, 35.

  The Dude detective, W. R. Eyster, 33.

  Duke Despard, the gambler duellist, Noel Dunbar, 36.

  The Dumb page, Frederick Whittaker, 41.

  The Dumb spy, Oll Coomes, 58.

  Dusky Darrell, trapper, Edwin Emerson, 45.

  Dusky Dick’s duel, Harry Hazard, 61.

  The Dwarf decoy, M. O. Rolfe, 62.

  Dynamite Dan, T. C. Harbaugh, 46.


  E

  The Eagle crest, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  Eagle Kit, the boy demon, Oll Coomes, 43.

  Eagle Ned, T. C. Harbaugh, 52.

  Eagle Plume, the white avenger, A. W. Aiken, 54.

  East and west, Frances F. Barritt, 38.

  Ebony Dan, Frank Dumont, 44.

  Ebony Dan’s mask, Frank Dumont, 60.

  The Edinburgh detective, James M’Govan, 73.

  El Rubio Bravo, king of the swordsmen, T. H. Monstery, 25.

  Elephant Tom, of Durango, J. E. Badger, 28.

  Ellen Hart, J. H. Ingraham, 67.

  Eph Peters, C. D. Clark, 54.

  Equinox Tom, the bully of Red Rock, J. E. Badger, 25.

  The Esquimaux’ queen, G. W. Browne, 20.

  Esther, Ann S. W. Stephens, 39.

  Ethelbert, the shell-hunter, E. Z. C. Judson, 20.

  Eutawan, the slayer, C. D. Clark, 54.

  Evil Eye, king of cattle thieves, Frank Dumont, 44.


  F

  Fancy Frank, of Colorado, W. F. Cody, 43.

  Faro Frank of High Pine, W. R. Eyster, 45.

  The Fatal frigate, Prentiss Ingraham, 31.

  Fearless Phil, Edward Willett, 46.

  The Feathered snake, H. L. Boone, 67.

  Felix Fox, the boy spotter, T. C. Harbaugh, 49.

  The Fenians, J. W. McCartney, 75.

  Fergus Fearnaught, the New-York boy, G. L. Aiken, 46.

  The Fighting trapper, 68.

  The Fighting trio, S. S. Hall, 47.

  Fire-eye, the thugs’ terror, W. G. Patten, 37.

  Fire Face, the silver king’s foe, A. W. Aiken, 33.

  Fireheels, Roger Starbuck, 47.

  First-Class Fred, the gent from Gopher, E. L. Wheeler, 48.

  The First of the Knickerbockers, P. H. Myers, 70.

  Fitz-Hern, J. W. Lewis, 75.

  Flash Dan, the nabob, T. C. Harbaugh, 30.

  Flash Falcon, the society detective, W. J. Cobb, 30.

  The Florida pirate, Ralph the reefer, pseud., 75.

  Flush Fred, the Mississippi sport, Edward Willett, 28.

  Flush Fred’s double, Edward Willett, 29.

  Flush Fred’s full hand, Edward Willett, 29.

  The Flying cloud, J. H. Ingraham, 67.

  The Flying Fish, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  The Flying scout, C. D. Clark, 54.

  The Flying Yankee, Prentiss Ingraham, 53, 57.

  The Fog devil, Frederick Whittaker, 28.

  Foghorn Phil, the king of the border, Oll Coomes, 55.

  The Forest princess, J. E. Badger, 55.

  The Forest specter, Edward Willett, 21.

  The Forest spy, E. S. Ellis, 38, 71.

  Forrestal, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  Fort Stanwix, P. H. Myers, 69.

  Foul-weather Jack, Roger Starbuck, 40.

  Fox and Falcon, the Bowery shadows, T. C. Harbaugh, 50.

  Frank Lightfoot, the miner detective, J. E. Badger, 29.

  Frank Yates, the young trapper, J. E. Badger, 21.

  Fred Flyer, detective, Charles Morris, 61.

  The Freebooters, Gustave Aimard, 25.

  The Fresh of Frisco at Santa Fé, A. W. Aiken, 34.

  The Fresh in Montana, A. W. Aiken, 35.

  Fresh, the race-track sport, A. W. Aiken, 37.

  Frio Fred, S. S. Hall, 47.

  Frio Fred in Texas, S. S. Hall, 61.

  Frisco Frank at Glory Gulch, W. H. Manning, 37.

  Frisky Frank in Idaho, Roger Starbuck, 61.

  The Frontier angel, E. S. Ellis, 38, 41, 71.

  The Frontier detective, W. I. James, 73.

  The Frontier detective, E. L. Wheeler, 60.

  The Fugitives, E. S. Ellis, 39.


  G

  Gabe Gall, the gambolier from Great Hump, W. H. Manning, 36.

  Gabe Gunn, the grizzly from Ginseng, J. E. Badger, 32.

  The Gambler pirate, Prentiss Ingraham, 26.

  Carry Kean, the man with backbone, W. H. Manning, 33.

  Gaspar, the gauche, Mayne Reid, 20.

  The Genteel spotter, A. W. Aiken, 30.

  Gentleman Dave, the dead game sport, W. R. Eyster, 37.

  Gentleman George, A. W. Aiken, 19.

  The Gentleman from Pike, P. S. Warne, 25.

  The Get-there sharp, J. E. Badger, 35.

  The Giant cupid, J. C. Cowdrick, 31.

  The Giant detective’s last “shadow,” H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Giant George, the ang’l of the range, S. S. Hall, 45.

  Giant George’s revenge, S. S. Hall, 60.

  The Giant horseman, G. C. Jenks, 31.

  Giant Jake, the patrol of the mountains, N. M. Curtis, 28.

  Giant Pete, the patriot, C. D. Clark, 40, 63.

  The Giant rifleman, Oll Coomes, 24.

  The Giant sport, W. G. Patten, 35.

  The Giant trailer, Francis Johnson, 68.

  Gid Gale’s block game, A. K. Sims, 37.

  Gideon Godbold, N. C. Iron, 38.

  Gideon’s grip at Babylon Bar, A. W. Aiken, 36.

  Gilbert, the guide, C. D. Clark, 26.

  Gilt-edge Johnny, W. R. Eyster, 35.

  The Girl avenger, T. C. Harbaugh, 62.

  The Girl captain, J. E. Badger, 40, 63.

  Godbold, the spy, N. C. Iron, 56, 62.

  The Gold crushers, P. H. Myers, 70.

  The Gold demon, 54.

  The Gold-dragon, W. H. Manning, 29.

  Gold-Dust Dan, the trail patrol, J. W. Osbon, 51.

  Gold-Dust Dan’s snapshot, J. W. Osbon, 52.

  Gold Plume, the boy bandit, Prentiss Ingraham, 44.

  Gold Rifle, the sharpshooter, E. L. Wheeler, 53, 59.

  The Gold-seeker guide, Mayne Reid, 45.

  Gold Trigger, the sport, T. C. Harbaugh, 43, 59.

  The Golden belt, Colin Barker, 38, 71.

  The Golden Hand, G. W. Browne, 43.

  The Golden harpoon, Roger Starbuck, 39, 57.

  Goldglove Gid, the man of grit, W. G. Patten, 34.

  Goosehead’s best shot, J. E. Badger, 62.

  Gopher Gabe, the unseen detective, J. E. Badger, 34.

  Gottlieb Gottsoock, G. H. Prentice, 22.

  Graybeard, the sorcerer, C. D. Clark, 56.

  The Great Barry case, Jack Howard, 73.

  A Great detective’s trail, 72.

  The Green ranger, Edwin Emerson, 57.

  Grip-sack Sid, the sample sport, J. E. Badger, 33.

  The Gripsack sharp’s even-up, J. E. Badger, 34.

  Grit, the bravo sport, Prentiss Ingraham, 45.

  The Grizzly-hunters, Frederick Whittaker, 53.

  Guerrillas and regulars, Dick Stedman, 18.

  Guilty or not guilty? Ann E. Porter, 39, 65.

  The Gulf pirate, Harry Hazleton, 68.


  H

  Hair Trigger Tom of Red Bend, W. R. Eyster, 31.

  The Half-blood, E. S. Ellis, 46.

  Hands up, W. R. Eyster, 26.

  Handsome Harry, the bootblack detective, Charles Morris, 59.

  Hank Hound, the Crescent City detective, A. P. Morris, 27.

  Happy Hans, the Dutch Vidocq, A. K. Sims, 51.

  Harry, the country boy, in New York, Charles Morris, 61.

  Harry Winkle’s long chase, W. R. Eyster, 62.

  Hates and loves, May A. E. Fleming, 39.

  Hawk-Eye, the London detective, 72.

  Hawkeye & Ferrit, the shrewd Bowery detectives, Jack Howard, 73.

  The Head hunter, A. P. Morris, 30.

  The Headless body, F. X. Harney, 74.

  The Heart-eater, Harry Hazard, 57.

  Heavy Hand, the relentless, W. H. Manning, 29.

  Heller’s pupil, W. I. James, 72.

  The Helpless hand, Mayne Reid, 43, 57.

  Hercules, the dumb destroyer, Oll Coomes, 49.

  Hickory Harry, St. George Rathborne, 43.

  The Hidden lodge, T. C. Harbaugh, 41.

  High Hat Harry, the base ball detective, E. L. Wheeler, 49.

  The High Horse of the Pacific, A. W. Aiken, 32.

  High-water Mark, the sport, J. E. Badger, 37.

  Hirl, the hunchback, J. H. Robinson, 68.

  His own detective, 73.

  Honest Harry, Charles Morris, 20.

  Honest Jack’s protege, P. S. Warne, 61.

  Horseshoe Hank, the man of big luck, W. H. Manning, 29.

  A Hot trail, Charles Morris, 20.

  Hotspur Hugh, W. H. Manning, 30.

  A House of mystery, Mark Merrick, 73.

  Huckleberry, the foot hills detective, A. K. Sims, 33.

  The Huge hunter, E. S. Ellis, 46, 57.

  Hunted down, A. W. Aiken, 24.

  The Hunted hunter, E. S. Ellis, 43, 59.

  The Hunted life, Edward Willett, 55.

  The Hunted slaver, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  The Hunted sloop, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  The Hunter’s cabin, E. S. Ellis, 39.

  The Hunters’ feast, Mayne Reid, 27.

  Hurrah Harry, the high-horse from Halcyon, W. R. Eyster, 33.

  Hurricane Bill, J. E. Badger, 42, 59, 64.

  The Hurricane detective, Jackson Knox, 36.

  Hurricane Hal, the cowboy hotspur, W. G. Patten, 35.

  Hurricane Nell, the girl dead-shot, E. L. Wheeler, 69.

  The Hussar captain, Prentiss Ingraham, 59.

  Hustler Harry, the cowboy sport, W. G. Patten, 33.


  I

  The Ice elephant, Frederick Whittaker, 20.

  The Ice-fiend, Roger Starbuck, 40.

  Idaho Tom, the young outlaw of Silverland, Oll Coomes, 19.

  The Indian huntress, 67.

  Indian Jake, Flack, 66.

  Indian Jim, E. S. Ellis, 39, 57.

  Indian Joe, L. W. Carson, 46.

  Indian Joe, the guide, L. W. Carson, 56.

  The Indian Mazeppa, A. W. Aiken, 24.

  The Indian queen, Ann S. W. Stephens, 56.

  The Indian spy, J. E. Badger, 63.

  Inez, 70.

  Injun Dick, A. W. Aiken, 37.

  Iron-armed Abe, the hunchback destroyer, W. H. Manning, 28.

  Irona, E. S. Ellis, 65, 71.

  Isaac Lazarus, Gilbert Jerome, 73.

  Isabel de Cordova, J. S. Warner, 76.

  Island Jim, Bracebridge Hemyng, 59.

  The Island trapper, T. C. Harbaugh, 62.


  J

  Jabez Coffin, Frederick Whittaker, 59.

  Jack Harkaway in a duel, Bracebridge Hemyng, 75.

  Jack Harkaway in New York, Bracebridge Hemyng, 59.

  Jack, Harry and Tom, the three champion brothers, Frederick
    Whittaker, 20.

  Jack Hoyle, the young speculator, E. L. Wheeler, 43.

  Jack Long, Christopher Forrest, 66.

  Jack Rabbit, the prairie sport, J. E. Badger, 19, 24.

  Jack Sand, the boss of the town, P. S. Warne, 30.

  Jack’s snare, Ann E. Porter, 62.

  Jackson Blake, the bouncer detective, A. W. Aiken, 35.

  Jaguar Joe, E. L. St. Vrain, 48.

  Jeannette Wetmore, J. H. Ingraham, 67.

  The Jew detective, Prentiss Ingraham, 35.

  Jim Bludsoe, jr., the boy phenix, E. L. Wheeler, 41.

  Jim Dandy, the no-name sport, P. S. Warne, 51.

  Jim Gladden’s deputy, P. S. Warne, 50.

  Jim, the sport, in Wake-Up, E. L. Wheeler, 61.

  Jim’s big bonanza, C. D. Clark, 61.

  Joaquin, J. B. Williams, 75.

  Joaquin, the saddle king, J. E. Badger, 25.

  Job Dean, the trapper, Ingoldsby North, 76.

  Joe Buck of Angels and his boy pard Paul Powderhorn, A. W. Aiken, 45.

  Joe Napyank, Billex Muller, 57.

  Joe Phenix in Crazy Camp, A. W. Aiken, 34.

  John Armstrong, mechanic, Frederick Whittaker, 31.

  The Jolly pards to the rescue, P. S. Warne, 50.

  Jolly Skipper Jack, Roger Starbuck, 21.

  Judge Lynch, jr., T. C. Harbaugh, 43.

  Jumping Jake, the Colorado circus boy, Bryant Bainbridge, 20.

  Jumping Jerry, the gamecock from Sundown, J. E. Badger, 31.

  The Jungle scout, H. R. Millbank, 63.


  K

  Kangaroo Kit, E. L. Wheeler, 47.

  Kansas Karl, the detective king, A. K. Sims, 34.

  Kansas King, W. F. Cody, 53.

  Karaibo, J. S. Henderson, 63.

  Kate Sharp, Edward Willett, 69.

  Keen Billy, the sport, A. W. Aiken, 34.

  Keen Kennard, the Shasta shadow, T. C. Harbaugh, 31.

  Keen-Knife, prince of the prairies, Oll Coomes, 58.

  Keetsea, queen of the plains, P. B. St. John, 64.

  The Kennebec cruiser, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  Keno Kit, the boy bugler’s pard, Prentiss Ingraham, 47.

  Kent Keen, the crook-crusher, T. C. Harbaugh, 37.

  Kent Kirby, the high kicker from Killbuck, A. K. Sims, 52.

  Kent the ranger, E. S. Ellis, 21.

  Kentuck Talbot’s band, W. H. Manning, 60.

  Kentucky Jean, the sport from Yellow Pine, J. C. Cowdrick, 32.

  Ker-whoop, ker-whoo! S. S. Hall, 47.

  Kid-Glove Kit, H. B. Stoddard, 48.

  Kid Glove Kit and pard, H. B. Stoddard, 48.

  The Kidnapper, P. S. Warne, 23.

  Killb’ar, the guide, C. D. Warren, 46.

  Kilpatrick’s charge, R. R. Montgomery, 67.

  King Barnaby, N. W. Busteed, 38.

  King Dandy, the silver sport, A. W. Aiken, 36.

  King Kent, S. S. Hall, 30.

  The King-pin of the Leadville lions, A. K. Sims, 37.

  The King of the prairie, 67.

  The King of the woods, J. E. Badger, 48.

  The King’s fool, C. D. Clark, 26.

  The King’s man, A. J. H. Duganne, 39, 56.

  Kinkfoot Karl, the mountain scourge, J. M. Merrill, 29.

  Kiowa Charley, the white mustanger, T. C. Harbaugh, 43.

  Kit Bandy and Co., the border detectives, Oll Coomes, 34.

  Kit Bandy “rattled,” Oll Coomes, 52.

  Kit Bandy’s brigade, Oll Coomes, 52.

  Kit Bird, king of the mountains, C. D. Clark, 63.

  Kit Carson, king of guides, A. W. Aiken, 21.

  Kit Carson, jr., the crack shot of the west, S. S. Hall, 23.

  Kit Harefoot, the wood-hawk, T. C. Harbaugh, 42.

  Kit, the pavement sharp, T. C. Harbaugh, 51.

  Kyd’s bold game, Paul Bibbs, 21.


  L

  Lady Jaguar, the robber queen, W. H. Manning, 26.

  Lafitte, J. H. Ingraham, 29.

  The Land claim, Frances F. Barritt, 38.

  The Lasso king’s league, Prentiss Ingraham, 35.

  Laughing Eyes, H. J. Thomas, 39.

  Laughing Leo, J. E. Badger, 32.

  Left-handed Pete, the double-knife, J. E. Badger, 21.

  Light-heart Lute’s last trail, J. E. Badger, 51.

  Lighthouse Lige, J. F. C. Adams, 46, 71, 76.

  Lightning Bolt, the canyon terror, W. H. Manning, 29.

  Lightning Gripp, the cautious detective, W. I. James, 72.

  Lightning Jo, the terror of the prairie, J. F. C. Adams, 42.

  Lightning Leo, the behind-the-scenes detective, Redmond Blake, 65.

  Lightning Leo’s luck, Redmond Blake, 65.

  Lights and shades of New York, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  The Lion of the sea, A. W. Aiken, 59.

  Lion-heart Lee, the Lakeside detective, Frank Fort, 65.

  Lion-hearted Leon, Harry De Forrest, 18.

  Little Ah Sin, P. S. Warne, 49.

  Little Fox Foot, the Gold Bowie kid, A. C. Grissom, 49.

  Little Hurricane, the boy captain, Oll Coomes, 44.

  Little Jingo, P. S. Warne, 48.

  Little Lightfoot, the pilot of the woods, A. F. Holt, 49.

  Little Lon, the street singer detective, T. C. Harbaugh, 51.

  Little Lone Star, S. S. Hall, 49.

  Little Oh-my, P. S. Warne, 48.

  Little Shoo Fly, P. S. Warne, 49.

  Little Texas, the young mustanger, Oll Coomes, 43.

  Little Wildfire, the young prairie nomad, Oll Coomes, 45.

  Lodestone Lem, the champion of Chestnut Burr, A. K. Sims, 36.

  Logger Lem, Edward Willett, 29.

  The Lone chief, J. E. Badger, 63.

  The Lone Hand on the Caddo, A. W. Aiken, 33.

  Lone Hand, the shadow, A. W. Aiken, 33.

  The Lone Hand in Texas, A. W. Aiken, 32.

  Lone Star, the cowboy captain, Prentiss Ingraham, 45.

  The Lone star of Texas, Edward Morse, 18.

  The Long Branch detective, Sergeant Rolins, 72.

  Long-haired Max, W. H. Manning, 27.

  Long Shot, Captain Comstock, 56, 76.

  Long Tom, the privateer, E. Z. C. Judson, 35.

  The Lost bonanza, T. C. Harbaugh, 31.

  The Lost bride, J. L. Bowen, 64.

  The Lost cache, J. S. Henderson, 39, 63.

  The Lost finger, Charles Morris, 49.

  The Lost hunters, J. F. C. Adams, 46.

  A Lost life, W. H. Bushnell, 75.

  The Lost ship, Roger Starbuck, 40, 54.

  The Lost trail, E. S. Ellis, 39.

  Lotta, the young lady detective, Fred Hazel, 72.

  Loyal Heart, Gustave Aimard, 24.

  The Loyalist, H. K. Browne, 70.

  Lucifer Lynx, the wonder detective, T. C. Harbaugh, 32.

  Lucky Lester’s lone hand, W. R. Eyster, 35.

  Lynx-Cap, Paul Bibbs, 21.


  M

  Mad Anthony’s scouts, Emerson Rodman, 62.

  Mad Dan, the spy of 1776, C. B. Lewis, 19.

  The Mad horseman, Edwin Emerson, 54.

  The Mad hunter, Harry Hazard, 63.

  The Mad hunter, Burton Saxe, 43.

  The Mad hussars, Frederick Whittaker, 27.

  The Mad man hunter, H. B. Stoddard, 49.

  The Mad mariner, Prentiss Ingraham, 25.

  The Mad miner, G. W. Browne, 43.

  The Mad ranger, J. E. Badger, 53.

  Mad Tom Western, the Texan ranger, C. D. Clark, 42.

  Mademoiselle Lucie, the French lady detective, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Madge Wylde, the young man’s ward, May A. E. Fleming, 38.

  Magic Mike, the man of frills, W. R. Eyster, 28.

  The Magic ship, Prentiss Ingraham, 30.

  The Maid of Esopus, N. C. Iron, 38, 41.

  The Maid of the mountain, C. D. Clark, 63.

  The Maid of old Kaintuck, H. L. Boone, 66.

  The Maid of Wyoming, J. L. Bowen, 39.

  The Maiden martyr, 53.

  Malaeska, Ann S. W. Stephens, 37, 71.

  The Man in green, J. S. Henderson, 64.

  The Man-hunter, M. O. Rolfe, 57.

  The Man of muscle, J. E. Badger, 37.

  A Man of nerve, P. S. Warne, 24.

  The Man of steel, A. P. Morris, 26.

  Manhattan Mike, the Bowery blood, E. L. Wheeler, 47.

  Mariano, the Ottawa girl, E. S. Ellis, 20, 21.

  Marion’s brigade, J. H. Robinson, 72.

  Marion’s men, E. S. Ellis, 65.

  Mark Magic, detective, A. P. Morris, 29.

  The Marked bullet, G. H. Prentice, 22.

  The Marked moccasin, St. George Rathborne, 68.

  The Marshal of Satanstown, Frederick Whittaker, 29.

  Masked Mark, the mounted detective, J. E. Badger, 30.

  The Massacre of Wyoming, Leon Lenoir, 18.

  Massasoit’s daughter, A. J. H. Duganne, 38.

  Mastonell, the mysterious detective, Enton, 72.

  Maum Guinea, and her plantation “children,” Metta V. F. Victor, 38.

  Maverick Mose, the Arizona detective, William Lisenbee, 51.

  Mephisto, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  The Merciless marauders, S. S. Hall, 29.

  Merciless Matt, T. C. Harbaugh, 57.

  The Messenger, Herrick Johnstone, 76.

  Metamora, the forest king, A. W. Aiken, 57.

  The Mexican bravo, J. H. Ingraham, 67.

  Mexican Mose, St. George Rathborne, 75.

  Mike, the guide, J. L. Bowen, 68.

  Mike Merry, the harbor police boy, Charles Morris, 59.

  Millions at stake, E. T. Sawyer, 73.

  Mink Coat, the death shot, J. E. Badger, 20.

  Minonee, the wood witch, Edwin Emerson, 20.

  Missing Jo, J. S. Henderson, 22.

  Mr. Jackson, the gent from Jaybird, W. R. Eyster, 35.

  Mrs. Partington’s ridicule, P. B. Shillaber, 75.

  Mohawk Nat, C. D. Clark, 64.

  Moke Horner, the boss roustabout, J. E. Badger, 29.

  Moloch, the money-lender, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  Monte-Cristo Ben, the ever-ready detective, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  The Moose-hunter, John Neal, 55.

  Moscow to Siberia, Charles Morris, 20.

  Mossback Mose, the mountaineer, J. E. Badger, 34.

  Mossfoot, the brave, C. D. Clark, 40, 55.

  The Mountain detective, T. C. Harbaugh, 46.

  Mountain Gid, the free ranger, C. D. Clark, 40, 54.

  The Mountain graybeards, J. C. Cowdrick, 33.

  Mountain Max, J. H. Robinson, 18.

  Mountain Mose, the gorge outlaw, S. S. Hall, 28.

  The Mountain trapper, H. L. Boone, 66.

  Mourad, the Mameluke, T. H. Monstery, 25.

  Murdock, the dread detective, W. H. Manning, 34.

  The Mustang-hunters, Frederick Whittaker, 64.

  Mustang Merle’s mandate, S. S. Scott, 65.

  Mustang Sam, the king of the plains, J. E. Badger, 43.

  Myra, the child of adoption, Ann S. W. Stephens, 56.

  Myrtle, the child of the prairie, Metta V. F. Victor, 39.

  The Mysterious letter, G. C. Hill, 70.

  The Mysterious marauder, Prentiss Ingraham, 47.

  The Mysterious spy, A. M. Grainger, 24.

  The Mystic canoe, E. S. Ellis, 57.


  N

  Nabob Ned, E. L. Wheeler, 48.

  Nat Todd, E. S. Ellis, 71.

  Nathan Todd, E. S. Ellis, 38.

  Navajo Nick, the boy gold hunter, T. C. Harbaugh, 44.

  Neck-Tie Ned, the lariat-thrower, H. B. Stoddard, 46.

  Ned Hazel, the boy trapper, J. F. C. Adams, 41, 58.

  Ned, the roving miner, Harry Hazard, 61.

  Ned Starling, J. S. Henderson, 55.

  Ned Temple, the border boy, T. C. Harbaugh, 44.

  Ned Wylde, the boy scout, J. B. Omohundro, 58.

  The New Monte Cristo, Prentiss Ingraham, 31.

  New York Bill, the dodger, Edward Willett, 61.

  New York Jack’s mettle, Barry Ringgold, 61.

  New York Ned in California, C. D. Clark, 62.

  New York Nell, the boy-girl detective, E. L. Wheeler, 60.

  The New York ‘sharp,’ A. W. Aiken, 23.

  New York Tim, Charles Morris, 61.

  Nick Doyle, the gold hunter, P. H. Myers, 62.

  Nick Whiffles’ pet, J. F. C. Adams, 19, 42, 58.

  Nick’s mate, J. H. Ingraham, 67.

  Night-Hawk Kit, J. E. Badger, 43.

  Night scenes in New York, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Nightingale Nat, T. C. Harbaugh, 58.

  Nightshade, J. H. Robinson, 23.

  Nobby Nat, the tenderfoot detective, W. G. Patten, 52.

  Nobby Nick of Nevada, E. L. Wheeler, 44.

  Nor’-West Nick, the border detective, J. E. Badger, 30.


  O

  The Ocean bloodhound, J. H. Ingraham, 67.

  The Ocean bloodhound, S. W. Pearce, 41.

  The Ocean hunters, Mayne Reid, 19.

  Ocean Ogre, the outcast corsair, Prentiss Ingraham, 32.

  Oklahoma Nick, J. E. Badger, 32.

  Old Avalanche, the great annihilator, E. L. Wheeler, 41, 58.

  Old Avoirdupois, C. D. Clark, 40, 54.

  Old Ben Manx, J. T. Warren, 69.

  Old Benzine, the hard case detective, A. W. Aiken, 34.

  The Old boy of Tombstone, J. E. Badger, 27.

  Old Buckeye, the Sierra shadow, J. W. Osbon, 50.

  Old Bull’s-Eye, the lightning shot of the plains, J. E. Badger, 19.

  Old Burke, the Madison Square detective, W. G. Patten, 36.

  Old Cap Collier, W. I. James, 72.

  Old Cap Collier & Co., W. I. James, 72.

  Old Crossfire’s crisis, T. C. Harbaugh, 62.

  Old Double Fist, J. E. Badger, 47.

  Old Double Sword, Frederick Whittaker, 28.

  Old Eclipse, trump card of Arizona, T. C. Harbaugh, 47.

  Old Electricity, the lightning detective, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Old ’49, J. E. Badger, 26.

  Old Gabe, the mountain tramp, Edward Willett, 30.

  Old Gripes, Paul Bayard, 73.

  Old Grizzly and his pets, J. F. C. Adams, 45.

  Old Guess Markham, J. T. Warren, 69.

  Old Hal Williams, J. T. Warren, 18.

  Old Handcart’s big dump, W. R. Eyster, 34.

  Old Hard Head, P. S. Warne, 27.

  Old Hickory, St. George Rathborne, 42, 58.

  Old Honesty, Edward Willett, 55.

  Old Jupe, Mrs. Orrin James, 64.

  Old Ironsides abroad, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Old Ironsides at his best, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Old Ironsides in New York, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Old Kent, the ranger, E. S. Ellis, 56.

  Old Kit Bandy’s compromise, Oll Coomes, 53.

  Old Kit and his comrades, J. E. Badger, 21.

  Old Lute, the Indian-fighter, E. W. Archer, 57.

  Old Misery, the man from Missouri, W. G. Patten, 51.

  Old Nancy’s ward, Harry Hazleton, 62.

  Old Peggy Boggs, J. T. Warren, 18, 69.

  Old Phenomenal, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Old Plug Ugly, the rough and ready, W. G. Patten, 35.

  Old Pop Hicks, showman, Frederick Whittaker, 31.

  The Old river sport, D. B. Dumont, 31.

  Old Rocky’s “boyees,” S. S. Hall, 45.

  Old Rocky’s boys, S. S. Hall, 60.

  Old Roulette, Gilbert Jerome, 73.

  Old Rube, the hunter, T. C. Harbaugh, 42.

  Old Sledge, the blacksmith detective, Jack Howard, 73.

  Old Sleuth’s luck, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Old Sobersides, the detective of St. Louis, J. E. Badger, 37.

  Old Solitary, the hermit trapper, Oll Coomes, 44.

  “Old Stars,” Edward Park, 18.

  Old Strategy, Oll Coomes, 65.

  Old Subtle, Gilbert Jerome, 74.

  Old tar Knuckle and his boy chums, Roger Starbuck, 20.

  Old Terrible, the iron-arm detective, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Old Thunderbolt, the government detective, Old Cap. Maori, pseud., 72.

  Old Tiger, the patriot, N. M. Curtis, 69.

  Old Tom Rattler, the Red River epidemic, Oll Coomes, 49.

  Old Traps, Barry Ringgold, 20.

  Old True Blue, the trusty, W. G. Patten, 35.

  Old Weasel-top, the man with the dogs, P. S. Warne, 50.

  Old Winch, the rifle king, T. C. Harbaugh, 46.

  Old Zip, J. F. C. Adams, 55.

  Old Zip’s cabin, J. F. C. Adams, 42, 59.

  Omaha Oll, the masked terror, E. L. Wheeler, 58.

  On the deep, Roger Starbuck, 39.

  On their track, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  One-armed Alf, the giant hunter of the Great Lakes, Oll Coomes, 25.

  The One armed buccaneer, Prentiss Ingraham, 32.

  One Eye, the cannoneer, Frederick Whittaker, 26.

  One-eyed Jake, E. K. Olmstead, 72.

  One-Eyed Sim, J. L. Bowen, 42.

  The One-eyed trapper, Captain Comstock, 56.

  The Onondaga giant, Christopher Forrest, 66.

  Oonomoo, the Huron, E. S. Ellis, 71.

  Oregon Sol, J. F. C. Adams, 58.

  Oregon, the sport with a scar, W. R. Eyster, 33.

  Out with the Apache kid, W. B. Lawson, 70.

  The Outlaw brothers, J. J. Marshall, 42.

  The Outlaw-hunter, Francis Johnson, 18, 25, 69.

  The Outlaw’s bride, Christopher Forrest, 66.

  The Outlaw’s sister, Christopher Forrest, 67.

  Overland Kit, A. W. Aiken, 19, 37.

  Owlet, the robber prince, S. R. Urban, 26.


  P

  Pacific Pete, the prince of the revolver, J. E. Badger, 19.

  Paint Pete, the prairie patrol, S. S. Hall, 32.

  The Pale-face squaw, C. D. Clark, 56.

  The Pampas hunters, T. C. Harbaugh, 20.

  Panther Dick’s death-leap, A. F. Holt, 61.

  Panther Paul, the prairie pirate, J. E. Badger, 43.

  The Parson detective, Oll Coomes, 45.

  The Partisan spy, J. E. Badger, 55.

  The Partisan’s oath, R. F. Greeley, 67.

  Patent-leather Joe, P. S. Warne, 42.

  The Patriot cruiser, Sylvanus Cobb, 75.

  The Patriot cruiser, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  The Patriot scouts, J. A. Nunes, 63.

  Paul de Lacy, the French beast charmer, C. D. Clark, 19.

  Paul Jones, the bold privateer, 75.

  Paul Prince, detective, F. L. Broughton, 73.

  Peacock Pete, the lively lad from Leadville, A. B. Thorne, 47.

  The Pearl pirates, Roger Starbuck, 63.

  Peddler Paul’s pard, Edward Willett, 21.

  The peddler spy, C. D. Clark, 40, 54.

  Peleg Smith, B. H. Belknap, 64.

  The Peon prince, A. J. H. Duganne, 38.

  The Phantom hand, A. W. Aiken, 19, 24.

  The Phantom horseman, E. S. Ellis, 57.

  The Phantom hunter, Edwin Emerson, 62.

  The Phantom lighthouse, Roger Starbuck, 48.

  The Phantom Mazeppa, Prentiss Ingraham, 26.

  The Phantom miner, E. L. Wheeler, 58.

  The Phantom spy, W. F. Cody, 53.

  Phil, the scout, Ilian Verne, 75.

  Photograph Phil, the boy sleuth, E. L. Wheeler, 59.

  Picayune Pete, Charles Morris, 59.

  Piney Paul, the mountain boy, T. C. Harbaugh, 59.

  The Pioneers, J. H. Robinson, 72.

  The Pirate priest, Prentiss Ingraham, 28.

  Pistol pards, W. R. Eyster, 25.

  Pistol Tommy, the miner sharp, Leon Lewis, 37.

  Pitiless Matt, the white slayer, T. C. Harbaugh, 47.

  Plucky Phil, of the mountain trail, T. C. Harbaugh, 45.

  Pony, the cowboy chief, H. B. Stoddard, 61.

  The Pony-express rider, Prentiss Ingraham, 61.

  Port at last, Roger Starbuck, 40.

  Prairie Chick, J. S. Henderson, 65.

  Prairie-flower, Gustave Aimard, 23.

  Prairie Pete, H. L. Boone, 66.

  The Prairie pirates, Gustave Aimard, 64.

  The Prairie queen, C. D. Clark, 64.

  The Prairie rover, W. F. Cody, 19.

  The Prairie scourge, C. D. Clark, 64.

  The Prairie tigers, J. E. Badger, 65.

  The Prairie trapper, C. D. Clark, 64.

  Prince John, detective special, J. E. Badger, 36.

  The Prince of Pan-out, S. S. Hall, 30.

  Prince Primrose, the flower of the flock, A. K. Sims, 33.

  The Prisoner of La Vintresse, Mary A. Denison, 38.

  The Prisoner of the mill, Harry Hazleton, 18.

  Prisoners of war, U. S. Warren, 19.

  The Privateer’s bride, J. R. Caldwell, 40.

  The Privateer’s cruise, Harry Cavendish, 37, 56, 71.

  Prospect Pete, of the boy brigade, Oll Coomes, 44.

  Put Martin, Christopher Forrest, 67.

  Putnam Pomfret’s ward, A. J. H. Duganne, 38, 55.


  Q

  The Quaker scout, E. S. Ellis, 55.

  Queen Bessie, the border girl, H. J. Thomas, 20.

  Queen Helen, the amazon of the overland, Prentiss Ingraham, 28.

  Queen of the woods, P. B. St. John, 40.

  Quindaro, Harry Hazleton, 55.


  R

  Rainbolt, the ranger, Oll Coomes, 57.

  Ralph, the death-shot scout, Prentiss Ingraham, 51.

  Ralph Roy, the boy buccaneer, Prentiss Ingraham, 58.

  Ramero, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  The Ranch raiders, S. S. Hall, 48.

  The Ranchero, J. E. Tuel, 69.

  The Rangers of the Mohawk, E. S. Ellis, 39, 56.

  Rattlepate, S. R. Sherwood, 40.

  Raybold, the rattling ranger, S. S. Hall, 29.

  Reckless Rob, H. L. Boone, 66.

  The Red arrow, J. H. Ingraham, 67.

  Red Arrow, the wolf demon, A. W. Aiken, 19.

  Red Ax, the Indian giant, Paul Bibbs, 65.

  The Red brotherhood, C. D. Clark, 59.

  Red Cedar, the prairie outlaw, Gustave Aimard, 71.

  Red Claw, the one-eyed trapper, Captain Comstock, 46.

  Red Dan, the ranger, J. E. Badger, 40.

  Red Hand, J. W. Lewis, 75.

  Red Hand, A. G. Piper, 56.

  Red Jacket, the Huron, Paul Bibbs, 63.

  Red Lightning, C. D. Clark, 64.

  Red Lightning, the man of chance, Prentiss Ingraham, 27.

  The Red outlaw, C. D. Clark, 64.

  Red pard and yellow, T. C. Harbaugh, 34.

  Red Plume, the renegade, J. S. Henderson, 63.

  The Red privateer, E. Z. C. Judson, 34.

  Red Ralph, the river rover, E. Z. C. Judson, 48.

  The Red revenger, E. Z. C. Judson, 71.

  Red Richard, A. W. Aiken, 30.

  Red River rovers, C. D. Clark, 21.

  Red Rudiger, the archer, Frederick Whittaker, 25.

  Red Rupert, the American buccaneer, M. M. Ballou, 75.

  Red-Skin Tom, Harry Hazard, 47.

  The Red-skin’s pledge, J. L. Bowen, 54.

  Redpath, the avenger, J. H. Robinson, 68.

  The Reefer of ’76, Harry Cavendish, 38.

  The Reporter-detective’s big pull, W. P. Brown, 53.

  The Rifle rangers, Mayne Reid, 26.

  Rifle and revolver, Frederick Whittaker, 21.

  The Riflemen of the Miami, E. S. Ellis, 38, 55, 71.

  The Ring dove, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  The Rival giants of Nowhar, J. W. Osbon, 49.

  The Rival hunters, E. S. Ellis, 65.

  The Rival rovers, W. R. Eyster, 36.

  The Rival rovers, Roger Starbuck, 40, 55.

  The River rustlers, A. K. Sims, 35.

  Roaring Ralph Rockwood, the reckless ranger, St. George Rathborne, 58.

  Rob Roy Ranch, J. E. Badger, 31.

  Robinson Crusoe, Daniel Defoe, 65.

  The Rock rider, Frederick Whittaker, 24.

  Rocky Ben’s band, C. D. Clark, 61.

  Rocky Mountain Al, S. S. Hall, 27.

  Rocky Mountain Joe, T. H. Monstery, 61.

  Rocky Mountain Sam, Burke Brentford, 70.

  Rody, the rover, the ribbonman of Ireland, William Carleton, 25.

  Romeo and the reds, S. S. Hall, 48.

  Rosebud Rob, E. L. Wheeler, 42.

  The Rough riders, S. S. Hall, 28.

  Rough Rob of Dynamite, T. C. Harbaugh, 48.

  Round the camp-fire, J. E. Badger, 21.

  The Rover detective, Prentiss Ingraham, 51.

  Roving Joe, J. E. Badger, 21.

  The Roving sport, Edward Willett, 47.

  Roy, the young cattle king, Prentiss Ingraham, 60.

  A Royal flush, J. E. Badger, 31.

  The Royal Greens, J. H. Robinson, 72.

  Royal Richard, the thoroughbred, J. W. Osbon, 33.

  The Russian spy, Frederick Whittaker, 23.

  The Rustler of Rolling Stone, A. K. Sims, 52.

  Rustler Rube, the round-up detective, W. H. Manning, 34.

  Ruth Harland, C. D. Clark, 39, 55.

  Ruth Margerie, Mary A. Denison, 38, 56.


  S

  The Sagamore of Saco, Elizabeth O. P. Smith, 40, 56.

  Salamander Sam, D. B. Dumont, 32.

  Sam, the office boy, Charles Morris, 60.

  Sam Sheridan, the secret service special, W. G. Patten, 52.

  Sam Sutton, the scalp-taker, Herrick Johnstone, 66.

  Samson, the strong detective, Old Cap. Maori, pseud., 73.

  Sancho Pedro, the boy bandit, E. L. St. Vrain, 46.

  Sancho Sam’s shot, George Gleason, 21.

  Sandy Andy, P. S. Warne, 50.

  The Saratoga detective, F. X. Harney, 73.

  The Saucy Jane, privateer, Frederick Whittaker, 29.

  Saul Sabberday, the idiot spy, E. Z. C. Judson, 25, 68.

  The Scalp-hunters, Mayne Reid, 19.

  The Scalp King, L. W. Carson, 46.

  The Scarlet captain, Frederick Whittaker, 24.

  Scarlet Moccasin, Paul Bibbs, 63, 68.

  The Scarlet shoulders, Harry Hazard, 62.

  The Schuylkill rangers, Harry Hazleton, 65.

  The Scioto scouts, Edward Willett, 63.

  The Scorpion brothers, W. H. Manning, 27.

  Scott, Elliott & Co., the three great detectives, W. I. James, 72.

  The Scout, Warren St. John, 57.

  The Scout of ’76, Herrick Johnstone, 57.

  Scouting Dave, J. L. Bowen, 68.

  The Sea bandit, E. Z. C. Judson, 23, 69.

  The Sea captain, Roger Starbuck, 56.

  The Sea-cat, Frederick Whittaker, 58.

  The Sea king, Frederick Whittaker, 40, 54.

  The Sea serpent, Juan Lewis, 41.

  The Sea spy, E. Z. C. Judson, 34.

  The Sea Trailer, Prentiss Ingraham, 60.

  The Seaside detective, W. I. James, 72.

  Secret confessions, James M’Govan, 73.

  The Secret detective, 72.

  The Secret six, J. E. Badger, 36.

  Sergeant detective Sparrow, L. J. C., Woglom, 73.

  The Serpent of El Paso, S. S. Hall, 27.

  Seth Jones, E. S. Ellis, 38, 41, 70.

  Seth the skrimmager, H. L. Williams, 67.

  The Settler’s son, E. S. Ellis, 21.

  Seven Shot Steve, W. R. Eyster, 33.

  The Shadow ship, Prentiss Ingraham, 42, 59.

  Shadowing the London detective, T. C. Harbaugh, 37.

  Sharp Sam, J. A. Patten, 59.

  Sharp-Shooter Sam, Edwin Emerson, 21.

  Sharpe, the New York detective, A. F. Banks, 72.

  Sharper Stokes’ double deal, W. G. Patten, 52.

  Shasta, the gold king, J. C. Cowdrick, 48.

  The Shawnees’ foe, C. D. Clark, 64.

  Sheriff Stillwood, the regulator of Raspberry, J. C. Cowdrick, 34.

  Sierra Sam, the frontier ferret, E. L. Wheeler, 45.

  Sierra Sam’s pard, E. L. Wheeler, 46.

  Sierra Sam’s secret, E. L. Wheeler, 45.

  Sierra Sam’s seven, E. L. Wheeler, 46.

  The Signal gun, Edward Park, 18.

  Signal Sam, the lookout scout, A. K. Sims, 51.

  The Silent hunter, P. B. St. John, 24.

  The Silent terror, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Silk Hand, the Mohave ferret, T. C. Harbaugh, 33.

  Silk Ribbon’s crush-out, T. C. Harbaugh, 37.

  The Silken lasso, T. C. Harbaugh, 49.

  Silky Steele, the stay-in sport, J. E. Badger, 37.

  Silver Blade, the half-blood, J. E. Badger, 51.

  Silver Blade, the Shoshone, J. E. Badger, 51.

  The Silver bottle, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  The Silver Bugle, Harry Hazleton, 21, 39.

  The Silver bullet, Edward Willett, 69.

  Silver City Tom, J. L. Bowen, 62.

  Silver Knife, J. H. Robinson, 24.

  Silver-Mask, the man of mystery, J. C. Cowdrick, 48.

  Silver-plated Sol, the Montana rover, W. H. Manning, 29.

  Silver Riffle Sid, P. S. Warne, 31.

  Silver Sam, Frederick Whittaker, 24.

  The Silver Sharp detective, A. W. Aiken, 33.

  The Silver Sport, A. K. Sims, 50.

  Silver Steve, the branded sport, T. C. Harbaugh, 36.

  Silver-tip Steve, the sky scraper from Siskiyou, J. E. Badger, 35.

  Silver-tongued Sid, J. E. Badger, 33.

  Silverblade, the friendly, J. E. Badger, 51.

  Silverblade, the hostile, J. E. Badger, 51.

  Silverspur, Edward Willett, 61, 63.

  Sim Simpkins, scout, J. L. Bowen, 60.

  Simple Phil, J. L. Bowen, 55.

  Singer Sam, the pilgrim detective, A. K. Sims, 35.

  Single Eye, the scourge, Warren St. John, 57.

  Single Hand, C. D. Clark, 59.

  Single Hand, the Comanche Attila, C. D. Clark, 55.

  Single Sight, the one eyed sport, T. C. Harbaugh, 50.

  Six-Foot Sol, the sharp-shooter, W. R. Eyster, 53.

  The Six-shot spotter, A. K. Sims, 37.

  The Skeleton schooner, Prentiss Ingraham, 26.

  The Sky demon, Oll Coomes, 46.

  Sky-Rocket Rob, the life-saver, Jo Pierce, 51.

  The Slave sculptor, W. J. Hall, 38, 71.

  The Slaver captain, Roger Starbuck, 68.

  Smooth-Face, the scout, J. L. Bowen, 69.

  The Smuggler, E. Z. C. Judson, 69.

  Snake-Eye Sol, Marcy Hunter, 67.

  Snap-Shot Sam, S. S. Hall, 61.

  Snapshot Sam, the pistol sharp, W. R. Eyster, 31.

  Snow Bird, Edward Willett, 55.

  The Snow hunters, Barry De Forrest, 20.

  Snow-Shoe Tom, T. C. Harbaugh, 19.

  The Snow-shoe trail, St. George Rathborne, 20.

  The Snow-trail, T. C. Harbaugh, 19.

  Soft Hand, sharp, W. R. Eyster, 25.

  Sol Anderson, Christopher Forrest, 67.

  Sol Ginger, the giant trapper, A. W. Aiken, 42.

  Solemn Saul, the sad man from San Saba, J. E. Badger, 32.

  Solemn Saul’s luck streak, J. E. Badger, 35.

  Solid Sam, the boy road-agent, E. L. Wheeler, 43.

  The Son of the sea, Roger Starbuck, 68.

  The Sons of liberty, C. D. Clark, 64.

  Southern Sam, “Ned,” 71.

  The Sparkler sharp, W. G. Patten, 35.

  Sparks from the campfire, J. D. Ballard, 18.

  The Specter barque, Mayne Reid, 24.

  The Specter chief, Seelin Robins, 56.

  The Specter horseman, F. H. Dewey, 62.

  The Specter skipper, Roger Starbuck, 53.

  The Specter yacht, Prentiss Ingraham, 27.

  Spiky Jonas, H. L. Boone, 67.

  The Spirit detective, 72.

  Spitfire Saul, king of the rustlers, J. E. Badger, 28.

  Spokane Saul, the Samaritan suspect, W. H. Manning, 36.

  The Sport from Hard-Luck, J. E. Badger, 37.

  The Sport from St. Louis, J. W. Osbon, 36.

  The Sport of Silver Bend, W. R. Eyster, 36.

  The Sport in velvet, W. R. Eyster, 53.

  Spotter Bob in New York, W. G. Patten, 52.

  Spotter Bob’s Bowery racket, W. G. Patten, 52.

  The Spotter-detective, A. W. Aiken, 23.

  Spread Eagle Sam, the Hercules hide-hunter, J. E. Badger, 30.

  Squatter Dick, J. E. Badger, 63.

  The Squaw chief, Frederick Whittaker, 54.

  The Squaw spy, T. C. Harbaugh, 62.

  Stampede Steve, S. S. Hall, 29.

  The Steel mask, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  Steel Surry, the sport from Sunrise, J. E. Badger, 35.

  Stella, the daughter of liberty, N. C. Iron, 38.

  The Stone chief, C. D. Clark, 54.

  Stonefist, of Big Nugget Bend, W. H. Manning, 28.

  The Strange pard, S. S. Hall, 47.

  The Stranger sport’s shake-up, W. R. Eyster, 37.

  The Street Arab detective, Charles Morris, 61.

  Stung Serpent, the last chief of the Natchez, T. C. Harbaugh, 68.

  Stuttering Sam, the whitest sport of Santa Fe, A. K. Sims, 35.

  Sumter’s scouts, C. D. Clark, 55.

  Sunshine Sam, chip of the old block, T. C. Harbaugh, 32.

  The Sure shot pards, A. C. Grissom, 50.

  Sure Shot Seth, Oll Coomes, 53.

  The Swamp hero, Edward Park, 19.

  The Swamp scout, C. D. Clark, 64.

  The Swamp scout, Edward Willett, 69.

  Sweep-stakes Sam, the silver sport, J. E. Badger, 36.

  Sweet William, the trapper detective, J. E. Badger, 26.

  Swiftwing, the squaw, Edward Willett, 54.

  Sybil Chase, Ann S. W. Stephens, 41.


  T

  Talbot in Apache land, A. W. Aiken, 36.

  Tangemund, the desert detective, F. H. Dewey, 49.

  The Tarantula of Taos, S. S. Hall, 46.

  Teamster Tom, the boomer detective, A. K. Sims, 36.

  Teddy O’Shawn, the Irish detective, 72.

  The Ten pards, T. C. Harbaugh, 47.

  The Ten-spot of diamonds, Gilbert Jerome, 73.

  Terrapin Dick, the wild-wood detective, Edward Willett, 30.

  The Terrible Tonkaway, S. S. Hall, 26.

  The Terrible trio, S. S. Hall, 27.

  The Test shot, G. H. Prentice, 65.

  The Texan detective, A. K. Sims, 37.

  The Texan firebrand, A. K. Sims, 53.

  The Texan ranger, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  The Texan spy, N. M. Curtis, 18, 68.

  The Texan trailer, C. E. Lasalle, 76.

  Texas Chick, the southwest detective, W. H. Manning, 28.

  The Texas Hawks, J. E. Badger, 57.

  Texas Jack, the mustang king, Prentiss Ingraham, 21.

  Texas Trump, the border rattler, T. C. Harbaugh, 49.

  The Three captives, Edward Willett, 64.

  Three handsome sports, W. R. Eyster, 30.

  Three of a kind, P. S. Warne, 29.

  The Three Spaniards, George Walker, 25.

  The Three spotters, M. H. Waring, 65.

  The Three spotters’ hot heat, M. H. Waring, 65.

  The Three trappers, L. W. Carson, 46.

  Thunderbolt Tom, St. George Rathborne, 44.

  The Tie-To Sport, W. R. Eyster, 52.

  Tiger Dick, the faro king, P. S. Warne, 23.

  Tiger Dick, the man of the iron heart, P. S. Warne, 26.

  Tiger Dick vs. Iron Despard, P. S. Warne, 28.

  Tiger-Head, H. L. Boone, 66.

  The Tiger-slayer, Gustave Aimard, 23.

  The Tiger tamer, Frederick Whittaker, 46.

  The Tiger of Taos, G. W. Browne, 42.

  Tiger Tom, the Texan terror, Oll Coomes, 45.

  Tim, the boy acrobat, Charles Morris, 20.

  Tim Bumble’s charge, Mary A. Denison, 39, 64.

  Tiny Fox, the Ferret, E. L. Wheeler, 59.

  Tippy, the Texan, George Gleason, 43, 55.

  Tom Pintle, the pilot, H. M. Klapp, 62.

  Tom, the Texan tiger, Oll Coomes, 60.

  Tom Thumb, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Tom Turner, detective, A. P. Morris, 73.

  Tombstone Dick, the train pilot, E. Z. C. Judson, 31.

  The Tonkawa spy, Edward Willett, 64.

  Top Notch Tom, the cowboy outlaw, Frederick Whittaker, 29.

  Topnotch Tim, the mad parson, D. B. Dumont, 32.

  Tornado Tom, T. C. Harbaugh, 44.

  Tracked by the dead, Warne Miller, 73.

  The Trader spy, J. S. Henderson, 40, 64.

  Tragedy and strategy, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  The Trail-hunters, E. S. Ellis, 71.

  The Traitor spy, C. D. Clark, 54.

  The Traitor’s doom, J. T. Warren, 18.

  The Tramp’s trump-trick, A. K. Sims, 53.

  The Trapped Tiger King, Charles Morris, 60.

  Trapper Tom’s castle mystery, Oll Coomes, 60.

  The Trapper’s daughter, Gustave Aimard, 23.

  True blue, Edward Willett, 69.

  “A Trump card,” Charles Morris, 44.

  Turkey Dan, Metta V. F. Victor, 19.

  The Turkish slave, M. M. Ballou, 75.

  Twilight Charlie, the road sport, J. C. Cowdrick, 32.

  The Twin horsemen, Frederick Whittaker, 60.

  The Twin scouts, C. D. Clark, 64.

  The Two ‘bloods,’ Charles Morris, 45.

  The Two cool sports, W. R. Eyster, 27.

  The Two detectives, A. W. Aiken, 58.


  U

  Uncle Bedrock’s big bounce, W. R. Eyster, 36.

  Uncle Ezekiel and his exploits on two continents, Metta V. F.
    Victor, 38.

  The Uncle’s crime, J. H. Robinson, 69.

  The Unionist’s daughter, Metta V. F. Victor, 39.

  The Unknown, N. C. Iron, 39, 56.

  The Unseen hand, J. S. Henderson, 63.


  V

  The Vagabond of the mines, Prentiss Ingraham, 51.

  The Vailed benefactress, S. R. Sherwood, 40.

  The Valley scout, Seelin Robins, 63.

  Velvet Face, the border bravo, Prentiss Ingraham, 25.

  Velvet Foot, the Indian detective, T. C. Harbaugh, 48.

  The Ventriloquist detective, E. L. Wheeler, 60.

  The Vicksburg spy, Edward Willett, 18, 69.

  Vidocq, the French detective, H. R. Walters, 72.

  Violet Vane, the vanquished, W. G. Patten, 51.

  Violet Vane’s vow, W. G. Patten, 51.


  W

  The Wall street blood, A. W. Aiken, 28.

  Walt Ferguson’s cruise, C. D. Clark, 19.

  War-Eagle, E. Z. C. Judson, 66.

  War Eagle, Gamboge Mahler, 71.

  The Warrior princess, C. D. Clark, 54.

  Watch-Eye, the shadow, E. L. Wheeler, 42.

  The Water waif, C. P. Sumner, 56.

  Waving Plume, W. R. Eyster, 68.

  Web-Foot Mose, the tramp detective, Oll Coomes, 49.

  Wenona, the giant chief, C. D. Clark, 57.

  The White brave, Captain Murray, 55.

  The White canoe, P. B. St. John, 54.

  The White crook, D. B. Dumont, 31.

  The White-faced pacer, John Neal, 56.

  The White gladiator, Frederick Whittaker, 54.

  White Lightning, T. C. Harbaugh, 60.

  The White outlaw, Harry Hazard, 57.

  The White scalper, Gustave Aimard, 25.

  The White squaw, Mayne Reid, 19, 28.

  The White witch, A. W. Aiken, 19.

  The White wizard, E. Z. C. Judson, 23, 68.

  White Wolf, Marcy Hunter, 67.

  Whitelaw, J. H. Robinson, 23.

  The Whitest man in the mines, Frederick Whittaker, 30.

  Wide-a-wake, the robber king, Frank Dumont, 24.

  Wild Bill, the pistol dead shot, Prentiss Ingraham, 26.

  Wild Frank, the buckskin bravo, E. L. Wheeler, 44, 60.

  The Wild huntress, J. F. C. Adams, 62.

  The Wild huntress, Mayne Reid, 27.

  Wild Ivan, the boy Claude Duval, E. L. Wheeler, 58.

  Wild Rube, the young trail-hunter, C. D. Clark, 40, 62.

  The Wild steer riders, Prentiss Ingraham, 37.

  Wild Vulcan, the lone range-rider, W. G. Patten, 51.

  Wild West Walt, the mountain veteran, T. C. Harbaugh, 32.

  Wild Will, the mad ranchero, S. S. Hall, 24.

  Wild Wolf, the Waco, S. S. Hall, 48.

  Will Somers, the boy detective, Charles Morris, 43.

  Will Wildfire in the woods, Charles Morris, 43.

  The Willing captive, J. S. Henderson, 22.

  Wind River Clark, the gold hermit, Leon Lewis, 37.

  Wingenund, the young trail-hunter, Captain Murray, 55.

  Winifred Winthrop, Kate N. Trask, 38, 56.

  The Winning oar, A. W. Aiken, 24.

  Wistah, the child spy, George Gleason, 62.

  The Wizard brothers, W. F. Cody, 31.

  The Wolf demon, A. W. Aiken, 23.

  Wolf-Fang Fritz, Marcy Hunter, 67.

  Wolfgang, the robber of the Rhine, Frederick Whittaker, 45.

  The Wolves of New York, A. W. Aiken, 25.

  The Wood-demon, G. H. Prentice, 69.

  The Wood rangers, Emerson Rodman, 69.

  The Wood witch, Edwin Emerson, 62.

  Woods and waters, Frederick Whittaker, 21.

  The Wreck of the Albion, J. S. Warner, 39.

  The Wrecker’s prize, H. J. Thomas, 39, 56.

  Wrestling Ralph, H. L. Boone, 67.

  The Wrong man, H. J. Thomas, 56.

  Wyoming Zeke, the hotspur of Honeysuckle, W. H. Manning, 33.


  Y

  A Yankee blue-jacket, J. H. Ingraham, 66.

  The Yankee detective, H. P. Halsey, 74.

  Yankee Jim, the horserunner, H. L. Boone, 67.

  Yankee Josh, the rover, B. H. Belknap, 62.

  The Yankee rajah, C. D. Clark, 45.

  The Yellow Chief, Mayne Reid, 59.

  Yellow Jack, the mestizo, P. S. Warne, 31.

  You Bet Bob from Cross Crick, Arizona Cy, pseud., 53.

  You-Bet Bob’s circus, Arizona Cy, pseud., 53.

  You Bet Bob’s jangle, Arizona Cy, pseud., 53.

  The Young cowboy, Prentiss Ingraham, 60.

  Young Dillon, the Custom House detective, W. I. James, 72.

  The Young fisherman, J. W. Lewis, 75.

  Young Ironclad, the keen detective, W. I. James, 72.

  Young Kentuck, W. H. Manning, 46.

  The Young land-lubber, C. D. Clark, 20.

  The young nihilist, Charles Morris, 20.

  The Young ranger, J. L. Bowen, 68.

  Young Weasel, the detective, Gilbert Jerome, 74.

  Yreka Jim, the gold-gatherer, E. L. Wheeler, 48.

  Yreka Jim’s joker, E. L. Wheeler, 48.


  Z

  Zelda, Jane Howard, 75.

  Zoph Slaughter, H. L. Boone, 66.


[Transcriber's Note:

Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation are as in the original.]







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BEADLE COLLECTION OF DIME NOVELS ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


