The Project Gutenberg eBook of Skeeter Bill comes to town
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Skeeter Bill comes to town

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release date: October 4, 2025 [eBook #76983]

Language: English

Original publication: Chicago, IL: Best Publications, Inc, 1948

Credits: Roger Frank


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SKEETER BILL COMES TO TOWN ***



                       Skeeter Bill Comes to Town

                       A novelet by W. C. Tuttle


    This salty seven-footer heads for Yellow Butte to celebrate a
    kid’s birthday--and does some plumb fast shooting on the way!




I


William Harrison Sarg, known as “Skeeter Bill,” leaned against the
bar of the only saloon in Temple Rock, and considered the fly-specked
back-bar. Skeeter was at least seven feet tall, in his high-heels and
sombrero. He had wide shoulders, which tapered sharply to a wasp-like
waist and a long pair of skinny legs, encased in tight-fitting, faded
overalls. He wore a colorless shirt, a wispy, red handkerchief around
his long neck, the ends held tight with a blue poker-chip. Around his
thin waist was a home-made, form-fitting gun-belt, and his holstered
Colt .45 hung low along his thigh.

Skeeter Bill was not handsome. His face was long, thin, with high
cheek bones, and a gash-like mouth, and eyes that were just a little
green tinted. He was not handsome, but he looked efficient. A fat
bartender, one damp lock of hair plastered down over one eyebrow,
looked questioningly at the tall cowpoke. Skeeter shook his head.

“If it was ice-cold I’d take more,” he said quietly, “but I jist cain’t
go more’n three bottles of luke-warm pop.”

“Yuh’re the only pop-drinker I’ve met,” said the bartender. “Yuh won’t
never git happy on that stuff.”

“No,” agreed Skeeter, “nor unhappy, either, my friend. How are things
these days in Road-Runner Valley?”

“Oh, all right,” replied the bartender. “You’ve been there?”

“Not for a couple of years. Been down in the Panhandle, where I didn’t
hear much news of this country. You been down there lately?”

“Couple months ago. I worked there for a year, tendin’ bar in the
Seven-Up at Yellow Butte.”

“Yea-ah? I used to know Buck Hadley. He still own it?”

“Not now. It belongs to Slim Lacey.”

“Slim Lacey?” Skeeter stared at the bartender. “Yuh say that Slim Lacey
owns the Seven-Up?”

“Well, he did a month ago, I know.”

Skeeter shoved his hat back and scratched his forehead. He seemed a
little astonished.

He said: “Well, mebbe it’s all right. You’d prob’ly know Hooty Edwards.”

“No, I didn’t, but I’ve heard of him. He left there before I went to
Yellow Butte.”

Skeeter cuffed his hat sideways on his head, leaned his elbows on the
bar and scowled at the fat bartender.

“You mean that Hooty Edwards ain’t down there no more?” he asked
incredulously.

The bartender shook his head. “Didn’t you know about him?”

“Know what about him?” asked Skeeter quickly.

“That he went to the pen for twenty years.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Skeeter’s head and shoulders sagged momentarily, and he blinked in
amazement.

“You ain’t jokin’--I hope you are, Mister,” he said huskily.

“I wouldn’t joke on a thing like that. He’s been gone quite a while,
they told me. He wrecked the bank in Yellow Butte. Never did have
another one.”

“I’m a sea-serpent’s sister!” whispered Skeeter. “Tell me what yuh know
about it, will yuh?”

The bartender told him that “Hooty” Edwards had forced the banker
and his wife from their home to the bank. There he had compelled the
banker to open the vault. Then he tied them both up and took his own
time in looting the vault. It was close to morning, and the sheriff,
coming from an all-night poker game, looked into the bank window and
saw moonlight shining through the open doorway at the rear of the
room.

He ran around to the rear of the building, just as the robber was riding
away. They exchanged shots, and the sheriff said he scored a hit, but
the man got away.

Later in the day they found Hooty Edwards sprawled beside a trail
near his own ranchhouse, his white horse tangled up in the brush near
him. The bandit had ridden a white horse. Edwards still had the black
mask around his neck. The doctor said he had been shot and would have
eventually bled to death, if they hadn’t found him.

Skeeter listened to the whole tale, his face a mask of his feelings.

“Yuh see,” remarked the bartender, “he wasn’t able to prove no alibi.
His wife said he left home after supper, comin’ to Yellow Butte. Hooty
said he didn’t know what happened. He had a few drinks in Yellow Butte,
but everythin’ is a blank after that, except that he remembers gettin’
on his horse. They gave him twenty years--but they didn’t get the money
back. They say he cached it, but he swore he didn’t remember what he
done.”

“He was married,” said Skeeter slowly, “and had two kids.”

“Yeah, I’ve seen ’em; a boy and a girl.”

“The boy,” said Skeeter huskily, “is named William S. Edwards. They
named him after me, Bill Sarg. He’ll be twelve years of age in a few
days, and I was aimin’ to help him celebrate his birthday. Came all
the way from Texas to do that. Yuh see, he’s the only kid that ever
was named after me.”

“That’s hard luck, Sarg. So you’re Skeeter Bill Sarg. I’ve heard of you.
They say you can drop a dollar with yore right hand from yore hip, draw
yore gun and hit the dollar before it hits the ground.”

“I have,” nodded Skeeter soberly, “and I’m also shy the little toe on
my right foot. They used to say that I had more brains in my right hand
than I have in my head, too. Mebbe it’s ’cause I use it more. I wonder
what Mrs. Edwards is doin’ to support her family.”

“Worked in a restaurant, when I was there, slingin’ hash. She’s a pretty
woman, I’ll say that.”

“She’s awful nice, too,” said Skeeter. “I wouldn’t like to hear anybody
say she ain’t. And that kid was named after me, too. Well, I reckon I’ll
be movin’ on. See yuh later.”

“Are you goin’ down to see the kid, Sarg?”

Skeeter nodded. “After all,” he replied, “no matter what happened, he’ll
have his twelfth birthday in a few days.”

“Tell him hello for me,” said the bartender. “Jist say that Fatty, the
bartender, said Happy Birthday.”

“We both appreciate that,” said Skeeter, smiling faintly. “I’ll tell
him.”

A pall of dust hung over the town of Yellow Butte as Skeeter Bill
rode in. They were loading cattle at the big corrals down at the
railroad tracks. Yellow Butte was the shipping point for all of
Road-Runner Valley. There was nothing beautiful about Yellow Butte,
with its crooked, narrow streets, sandblasted signs and false-fronted
buildings.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Lazily Skeeter Bill dismounted and tied his horse at a hitchrack which
was mercifully in the shade of the Seven-Up Saloon. On the other side of
the street Skeeter could see the faded and scarred gold lettering on a
large window, BANK OF YELLOW BUTTE. It was used now as a store-room for
the general merchandise store.

Skeeter Bill was familiar with all of Yellow Butte, even those places of
business whose signs had long since faded out. He went into the Seven-Up
Saloon. It was quite a large establishment, with gambling layouts along
one side, and a long bar on the other. It smelled of stale beer and
spilled liquor, but it was cool in there.

Several men were at the long bar, and Skeeter recognized them at a
glance--Sam Keenan, owner of the Tumbling K, Al Creedon, the big
sheriff, Muddy Poole, his deputy and Slim Lacey who the bartender at
Temple Rock had said was the new owner of the Seven-Up Saloon.

Muddy Poole was the first to recognize Skeeter Bill in the subdued light
of the room, and he emitted a yip of delight.

“If it ain’t Old Skeet!” he exclaimed. “Welcome back among us!”

“Hyah, Muddy,” grinned Skeeter Bill. “Gents, howdy.”

They all shook hands with Skeeter, but not all were as enthusiastic as
Muddy Poole, who said:

“Where on earth did you drop from, Skeet?”

“Oh, I just drifted in, Muddy. Thought I’d see what the old place looked
like again. How’s everybody?”

“Finer’n frawg-hair--mostly.”

Skeeter looked curiously at Slim Lacey. When Skeeter Bill left Yellow
Butte, Slim Lacey was a down-at-the-heel swamper in a little saloon at
the other end of town, and without a decent shirt to his back, but now
he was wearing white silk shirts, broadcloth pants and patent-leather
shoes. Slim’s smile was always sickly, and it hadn’t changed much.

Skeeter Bill said, “How yuh comin’, Slim?”

“Fine, Skeet. Yuh’re lookin’ good. Glad to see yuh back. Have a drink?”

“You never knowed Skeet to take a drink,” reminded Muddy.

“Thank yuh,” smiled Skeeter Bill. “You’ve got a memory, Muddy.”

“It ain’t hard to remember them what don’t drink, Skeet.”

“Well, I’ve got to go back to the corral,” said Keenan, placing his
glass on the bar. “We’re shippin’ today, Skeet.”

“Yeah, I saw the dust in the air, Sam. How’s the market?”

“Just fair. It’s always down when I’ve got stuff to ship.”

Muddy Poole walked outside with Skeeter Bill. Muddy knew of the
friendship between Skeeter Bill and Hooty Edwards.

“Do yuh know about Hooty?” asked the deputy quietly.

Skeeter Bill nodded. “I saw Fatty, the bartender, in Temple Rock, and
he told me about Hooty. First I’d heard, Muddy. It shore hurt to hear
a thing like that, don’tcha know it?”

“Hurt me, too,” said Muddy. “Hooty was fine. Margie is workin’ down in
the New York Chop House, doin’ her best to keep the kids goin’. We’ve
tried to help her, Skeet, but she’s proud.”

“Yeah, I bet she is. Whatever became of the Circle E, after they sent
Hooty away?”

“Well, the law took it over for the bank. Yuh see, the bank was busted
flat, and so was most folks around here. Yuh never can sell a thing
like that for what it’s worth. In fact, nobody was in shape to buy it,
but Sam Keenan finally bought it for about two-bits on the dollar.”

Skeeter Bill nodded slowly. “I can understand that, Muddy. But how come
Slim Lacey owns the Seven-Up? When I left here he didn’t have a cent.”

“Well, it does sound kind of funny, but it jist goes to prove that
yuh never can tell which way a dill-pickle will squirt. Buck Hadley
wanted to sell out and go back East, and Slim got himself a idea. He
was tendin’ bar for Buck at the time. So Slim borrowed money to pay
down on the place, and paid it off so much a month. Maybe it ain’t
all paid off yet, but he’s doin’ all right. Slim shore turned over a
new leaf.”

“I’m glad to see him gettin’ ahead,” said Skeeter Bill. “Well, I’ll be
headin’ for some food, I reckon, Muddy. See yuh later.”

Margie Edwards dropped a tray of dishes flat on the floor, and stood
there, staring at Skeeter Bill, ignoring the broken glass and crockery.
Only a few people were in the little restaurant at the time. The crash
was terrific, bringing the cook-proprietor, Shorty Hale, from the
kitchen on the run. He blurted:

“My gawsh, can’t yuh even--” and then he stopped, staring up at Skeeter
Bill.

“Howdy, Shorty,” said Skeeter calmly.

“Well--huh--howdy! Skeeter Bill Sarg!”

“I’m sorry,” said the woman quietly. “It--it slipped.”

“That’s all right,” assured Shorty. “I’ll get a broom.”

Margie Edwards looked at Skeeter and down at the mess on the floor. She
said, “I’ll be off shift in about ten minutes, Skeeter.”

“Sorry I scared yuh,” he smiled slowly.

“You didn’t. You shocked me, Skeeter.”

Shorty came back with a broom and a dust-pan.

Skeeter said, “Shorty, I’d like to have about six eggs, sunny side up,
and a lot of coffee. The pie can wait until I’m through.”

“Comin’ right up,” grinned Shorty. “My, my, you ain’t changed a bit,
Skeeter. Six eggs and coffee--and the pie awaits. Set down with him,
Miz Edwards, I’ll do the waitin’ this time.”




II


Less than an hour later, Skeeter sat with Mrs. Edwards on the porch of
their little house, which was only an unpainted shack, discussing the
misfortunes of the Edwards family. Margie Edwards was still a pretty
woman, in spite of her hard work, trying to keep her family together.
The two children were in school.

“I hear from Hooty almost every week,” she told Skeeter. “He’s grown
bitter.”

“If Hooty pulled that job, why wouldn’t he be bitter?” asked Skeeter.

“He didn’t!” declared Margie flatly. “I don’t care what the law says.
Everybody was against him, because the breaking of the bank just about
broke everybody in the valley. They took the ranch and all the stock,
trying to get something out of it.”

“Did Hooty need money, Margie?”

The woman nodded. “He did, but only to expand. Hooty wanted to raise
better cattle, and breeding stock is expensive. The bank wouldn’t help
him. They said he had hare-brained ideas.”

Skeeter sighed and wiped his forehead with a sleeve.

“I can’t figure out why Hooty didn’t know what happened.”

“He couldn’t either, Skeeter. He says he only took three drinks in the
Seven-Up Saloon that night, but he barely remembers getting on his
horse. After that, it was a blank, he says.”

“At the trial,” said Skeeter, “did any testimony show that Hooty had
only three drinks?”

Mrs. Edwards nodded. “Yes, it did. Slim Lacey was tending bar at that
time, and he said Hooty didn’t drink enough to be drunk. He didn’t think
he had more than three drinks.”

“Slim Lacey must have done pretty darn well,” remarked Skeeter. “He was
broke when I left here.”

Mrs. Edwards nodded. “I guess he was. I never speak to him. One day he
got fresh with me, and Hooty knocked out his front teeth. If you look
close, he has a bridge for two front teeth.”

“I’d like to have seen that!” Skeeter Bill smiled.

Mrs. Edwards admitted that she wasn’t making much money and that Shorty
Hale wasn’t the best boss on earth.

She said, “He was all ready to explode over the broken dishes, when he
saw you, Skeeter. He’d have probably fired me on the spot.”

“Yeah, I reckon so.” Skeeter grinned. “Sometimes I believe I have a
calmin’ influence on folks, Margie.”

They sat there and talked, until the two children came home.

Nellie was nine, a slip of a girl, with big, blue eyes, looking very
much like her mother, but Bill was husky, redheaded, and had eyes like
his father. Nellie was shy of this tall stranger, but Bill let out a
whoop. He remembered Skeeter Bill, and shook hands with him.

“Gee!” he said, “It’s kind of like home, Mom. Where have you been, Mr.
Sarg?”

“Down in Texas, Bill, followin’ dogies. Yuh’re sure growin’ up fast. How
old are yuh, Bill?”

“I’ll be twelve next Saturday.”

“Yeah, that’s right. Twelve years old. Bill, I was the first outsider to
poke a finger at yuh, don’tcha know it?”

“Mom told me you was. We were talkin’ about you a while ago, kind of
wonderin’ where you were. And now you’re here.”

“Talkin’ about me?” marveled Skeeter Bill. “Well, I do know! Bill, what
would yuh like to have for yore birthday?”

Young Bill thought it over soberly.

Finally he said, “If I could have just what I want, I’d take--my dad.”

Skeeter looked at Bill’s mother, and there were tears in her eyes. No
one had any comments, until Skeeter said quietly:

“Yeah, I reckon we’d all like that, Bill. Well, I guess I’ll kind of
drift back and see who I can talk to. Yuh never know who is glad to
see yuh back. I’ll see yuh some more, folks.”

“You are welcome to stay here with us, Skeeter,” said Mrs. Edwards
quickly. “Our home is your home.”

“That’s shore sweet of yuh, Margie,” he said soberly. “No, I couldn’t do
that. But I’ll be around.”

Skeeter Bill picked up his big hat and went slowly up the dirt street.

Young Bill said, “Mom, he’s an awful lot like Dad.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Margie nodded thoughtfully and went into the house.

Nellie said, “Gee, Bill, is that the man you was named after?”

“That’s right, Sis. I hope I grow up with long legs and big hands like
he’s got. They say he can take a mean steer and stand him right on his
head.”

“Why?” asked Nellie.

“Aw, you’re just a girl--you wouldn’t understand. Let’s go in and help
Mom get supper.”

Skeeter Bill wandered up to the Seven-Up Saloon. Few people were in the
place, and Slim Lacey was sitting at a card-table, reading a newspaper.
He nodded to Skeeter, who went over and sat down with Slim.

“How does the old place look to yuh?” asked Slim, folding the paper and
tossing it aside.

“Same as ever. Slim, I want to ask yuh a few questions. I heard about
Hooty Edwards in Temple Rock. On that night, how many drinks did Hooty
take in here?”

Slim smiled shortly. “Skeeter, I can’t swear to it but I think he took
about three. Mebbe it was four. But no more.”

“Whisky?”

“Yeah. I don’t believe he ever drank anythin’ else.”

“Any special kind of whisky, Slim?”

“No. Just bar-whisky, out of a barrel. What’s this all about?”

Skeeter looked thoughtfully at Slim for several moments.

“Slim,” he said confidentially, “I’m goin’ to prove that Hooty never
robbed that bank.”

“How?” asked Slim blankly.

“A lot of other folks would like to know, too, Slim. Keep this under
yore hat, will yuh? I don’t want to be interrupted in my job. You’ll
know later, but keep it dark, Slim. See yuh later.”

Skeeter went over to the general store, where he bought a package of
tobacco and cigarette papers. Then he sat down on the shaded porch to
enjoy a smoke and commune with his own soul.

“Bill Sarg,” he told himself, “yuh’re crazy, but it’s pleasant. If I
can make enough people believe that I know somethin’, I might find out
more’n I know now. Anyway, one more lie won’t hurt my immortal soul, I
reckon.”

He was sitting there when a lone rider came into town, started to draw
up at the Seven-Up Saloon, but swung around and came over to the hotel
hitchrack. Skeeter Bill grinned slowly. The rider was Fuzzy Davis, owner
of the Bar D spread, and one of the most explosive characters Skeeter
had ever known.

Fuzzy was only a few inches over five feet tall, and in wet weather he
might weigh a hundred pounds but that hundred pounds was all fighting
man. He wore a five, triple A boot, but his .45 was as big as anybody
carried on their hip.

He tied his horse, swore a little under his breath as he stepped up on
the sidewalk, and then he saw Skeeter Bill. He didn’t say anything at
once. He blinked, looked away, adjusted his neckerchief and cleared his
throat raspingly. Then he looked at Skeeter once more.

“Mebbe,” he remarked quietly, “it’s the heat, and ag’in mebbe it’s my
general run-down condition but doggone it--you look like somebody I’ve
known. Set my mind at rest, will yuh?”

“Hyah yuh, Fuzzy,” Skeeter Bill said with a grin.

“You ole _pelicano_!” snorted Fuzzy. “You darned ole-- How are yuh,
Skeet?”

“Finer’n the down on a gnat, Fuzzy. Set down, you little anteater.
How’ve yuh been, anyway?”

Fuzzy sat down and drew a deep breath. “I’m terrible,” he whispered.
“I’m mad, and when I’m mad, I’m terrible.”

“You look fine, Fuzzy.”

“That’s the whole trouble with me, Skeet. The finer I look, the worse I
am. I’ll betcha that when I’m dead, they’ll say, ‘Well, well, there’s
Fuzzy Adams, I never seen him look better.’”

“You ain’t sick, are yuh?” asked Skeeter Bill.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Frowning, the pint-sized rancher shook his head. “Shucks, no! I’m mad,
I tell yuh! Listen, will yuh? This mornin’ I went over to my big
water-hole at Hangin’ Rock. You know the place. It’s fenced, along with
about seven hundred acres. Water’s scarce around here, and there was
only enough for my few dogies. Well, sir, some sticky-rope son-of-a-gun
had tied off on about a quarter-mile of almost new barb-wire all over
creation. My spring was almost dry and around it was every blasted
Tomahawk, JML and Tumblin’ K cow in the valley.”

“That,” remarked Skeeter Bill, “don’t sound like a joke.”

“It wasn’t intended as no joke, Skeet. The ends was cut as slick as a
whistle. I dunno if I’ll ever git that water-hole cleaned out and built
up again. See why I’m mad? Yuh do? Well, yuh’re an observin’ sort of a
feller, Skeet. How come yore back here, and where yuh been?”

“Been down in Texas, Fuzzy. Yuh see, I--well, you knew that Hooty
Edwards named his boy after me, didn’t yuh?”

“Hooty,” replied Fuzzy, “was prone to do fool things. Go on with yore
alibi, son.”

“Well, I came back to help the kid celebrate his twelfth birthday,
Fuzzy. And look what I found out!”

“Yuh mean--about Hooty? Oh, yeah. Well, that was bad, Skeet. I’d have
sworn that Hooty was honest, even if he did name his kid after you.
Honest, but slightly ignorant, as yuh might say.”

“I appreciate yore sympathy for the boy,” said Skeeter soberly. “But
just what are yuh goin’ to do about that water-hole?”

“Me? What am I goin’ to do about it? Huh! I’m goin’ to get the
sheriff to swear out a warrant for Dan Houk. Me and him ain’t
friends, yuh understand. We ain’t been for years. It’s jist like the
big spit-in-the-crick to do a thing like that.”

“Any proof, Fuzzy?”

“There yuh go! Dad blame it, yuh’re as bad as Emmy! Proof? You’ll git
sued for false charges. Dad blast it, ain’t this a free country? You
stilt-legged gallinipper, comin’ up here from Texas, tellin’ me what
to do! It’s my water-hole, ain’t it? Well, don’t set there and grin
like a monkey with a stomach ache. Say somethin’.”

“How is Aunt Emmy, Fuzzy?”

“Well, that ain’t exactly changin’ the subject. She’s fine.”

“Still actin’ as yore guardian angel, eh?”

“She sniffs my breath, if that’s what yuh mean. Got the best nose for
alcohol in the world. Her ma was scared by a bloodhound. Emmy is all
right, except that she uses the Bible as a rule-book. She’s ag’in the
Devil, I know that. I ain’t never knowed anybody so set against a
entire stranger as she is ag’in the Devil. Pers’nally, I’d like to
meet him and ask him how he stands it.”

“Mebbe it’s the heat, Fuzzy. If yuh get hot enough yuh can stand
anythin’. How’s the Bar D goin’, except for the water-hole?”

“Well, pretty good, Skeet. Have yuh got a horse here? Yuh have? Go hang
the hull on him, and we’ll be goin’.”

“Yuh mean, yuh’re invitin’ me out to the ranch?” asked Skeeter.

“I am not--I’m orderin’ yuh. Emmy’d never forgive me if I told her you
was in town and didn’t come out with me. And you know what it means to
not have forgiveness for yore sins, Skeet.”

Skeeter Bill had known Aunt Emma Davis for years. Tall, rawboned,
severe-looking, her wispy, colorless hair drawn tightly to a
frizzly-looking knob at the back of her head, she stood on the porch
of the Bar D ranchhouse, shading her eyes against the sun as Skeeter
Bill and Fuzzy rode up to the porch.

“Emmy,” called Fuzzy, “I found me a prodigal son.”

Skeeter grinned, and Mrs. Davis leaned out further, clinging with one
hand to a porch-post.

“Skeeter Bill!” she half-screamed. “You--you git off that horse and come
here! Where on earth did you come from?”

“Aunt Emma, I’m fresh from Texas,” he grinned.

“You’re fresh from any place you come from, young man. Unpin yourself
from that saddle. My, my! You’re the last man I ever expected to see!
I had a hunch that you two was the sheriff and deputy, comin’ in to
tell me that Fuzzy was in jail or among the angels. Yuh see, he had a
awful mad expression when he left here. No, I ain’t goin’ to kiss you,
Skeeter. Fuzzy’s the only man I ever kissed, and don’t make any funny
remarks about it. I realize that I’ve missed a lot in life.”




III


Fuzzy took the two horses down to the stable, while Skeeter Bill sat
down on the shaded porch with Mrs. Davis. She didn’t ask questions but
waited for Skeeter Bill to tell what he wanted to tell.

“Yuh’re lookin’ fine, Aunt Emma,” remarked Skeeter.

“I look just like I’ve looked for twenty years and it ain’t fine. Time
don’t improve me, Skeeter. You ain’t changed.”

“I’m so good-lookin’,” said Skeeter soberly, “that any change would
have to be for the worse. I feel good, too. Yuh remember that Hooty
and Margie named their boy after me, don’t yuh?”

Aunt Emma nodded. “A terrible thing to wish upon a helpless young one,
Skeeter, but go ahead.”

“He’s twelve next Saturday. I asked him what he wanted for his birthday
and he said he wanted his dad.”

Mrs. Davis looked sharply at Skeeter Bill. “You wasn’t here, when
Hooty Edwards--got in trouble, Skeeter. You don’t know what it meant
to the folks of Road-Runner Valley. It busted the bank, and busted all
of us. Most of us ain’t got back on our feet since--I know we ain’t. I
feel awful sorry for Margie and her two kids, but I can’t feel sorry
for Hooty.”

“You feel sure that he done it, Aunt Emma?”

She nodded quickly. “It’s a cinch, Skeeter. It didn’t take the jury five
minutes all to agree that he was guilty. Even his own lawyer said they
didn’t have a leg to stand on. It made it awful hard for Margie. Lots of
folks act like she was guilty, too, but she didn’t have no hand in it.
The two kids had a hard time in school, too. Most of their parents went
busted in the deal, and it ain’t nice for kids, havin’ fingers pointed
at ’em.”

“Hooty was my friend, Aunt Emma,” said Skeeter slowly.

“I know he was. You two was thicker than seven fingers on one hand but
hard facts are hard facts, Skeeter.”

“Yeah, I reckon so. What became of the banker and his wife?”

“Oh, they moved away. Henry Weldon ran the bank for Phoenix men, and
they closed it. Never opened since. The loot was close to a hundred
thousand dollars, they said, but nobody ever found where Hooty cached
it. He swore he didn’t know what he done.”

Fuzzy came up from the stable and sat down, mopping his brow.

“How’d yuh like to ride out to Hangin’ Rock Spring?” he asked. “I’ve got
my two cow-pokes out there, tryin’ to bring order out of chaos, as Emmy
says.”

“I’d like to,” said Skeeter, rising.

“Don’t be too late,” said Mrs. Davis. “I’ll have supper ready at six
o’clock.”

“I ain’t never been late to a meal out here, Aunt Emma,” Skeeter said
with a grin, and added, “and, as a matter of fact, I ain’t had a good
meal since.”

On the way out there Fuzzy explained about water troubles in Road-Runner
Valley.

“I had to fence Hangin’ Rock,” he explained. “The other spreads have
got more water than I have and they wanted to keep me from havin’ any.
It was my property and not open range. The court decided that for me.
But--well, you can see what happened.”

“You and Dan Houk ain’t friends, eh?”

“Never have been, Skeet. He’d like to run me out.”

“They tell me that the bank took over Hooty’s place and sold it to Sam
Keenan.”

“Yeah, that’s right. The bank sold the stock, but sold the ranch to Sam.
He got it dirt-cheap, too.”

They found Len Riggs and Ollie Ashley, Fuzzy’s two cowpunchers, at the
spring, working with shovels, trying to repair the damage that the
cattle had made. Both of them remembered Skeeter Bill.

Skeeter rode over and looked at the tangled wires, where they had been
left. This was a real menace to range stock, no matter what the brand.
He rode down along the fence-line, looking it over. Some of the posts
had been set so loosely the wire had pulled them out.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Skeeter was sitting on his horse, studying the situation, when his gaze
fell upon an object beside some trampled brush. He swung down, without
dismounting, and picked it up. It was a rawhide honda with about a foot
of hard-twist lariat rope still attached. Evidently a rope had snapped
from the wires or a post and the honda had been flung aside where the
rider had not been able to find it.

Skeeter looked it over carefully, took off the piece of rope and put
the honda in his pocket before riding back to the spring, where Fuzzy
was working with the two cowboys.

They had the spring pretty well cleaned out, but it would do little good
without a fence. They tied their lariat ropes to the tangled wires, and
managed to straighten them out. It was quite a job, getting the fence
back where it would obstruct cattle from the spring and putting the wire
back where it would not tangle cattle.

“Who’s ridin’ for Dan Houk now?” asked Skeeter, as they rode back to the
ranchhouse.

“Ab Steele, Jim Grush and Andy Case,” replied Fuzzy.

“Does Sam Keenan still ramrod his own outfit?”

“No, he’s got a feller named Johnny Greer. He’s a good man, too.”

“Looks to me like a turkey-necked gun-slinger from Texas,” declared Len
Riggs. “Chaws his tobacco and his right hand is always crooked, ready to
fit a gun-butt.”

“Len is a natural-born fault-finder,” Fuzzy explained. “Why, he can’t
even see any good in me.”

“That,” said Skeeter, smiling, “is an intelligent state of bein’.”

Len whooped and slapped his leg with a quirt. “That’s a good one!” he
declared. “I still don’t like Johnny Greer.”

“If he wasn’t all right, Sam Keenan wouldn’t have him, yuh can bet on
that,” declared Fuzzy. “Sam’s particular.”

Mrs. Davis had a big supper ready for them and they all did justice to
it. Skeeter declared it was the first real meal he had eaten since he
left Road-Runner Valley. He wanted to go back to town that evening but
the Davises vetoed that at once.

Skeeter Bill and Fuzzy went to Yellow Butte next day. Fuzzy wanted to
talk with the sheriff about the vandalism, as he called it. Al Creedon,
the sheriff, listened attentively, and said he’d see what could be done
about it. While they were talking, Sam Keenan and his foreman, Johnny
Greer, walked in. Keenan introduced Greer to Skeeter Bill, and Fuzzy
told them what happened at Hanging Rock.

“Well, did yuh get yore fence fixed again?” asked Keenan.

“Yeah, after a fashion, Sam.”

“Well, if yuh need more men, I’ll send some over, Fuzzy.”

“No, we got it fixed pretty good. It’ll need a little more wire, but
I’ve got that at the ranch.”

“The only thing is,” remarked the sheriff, “will it be torn down again
by the same persons? If they done it once--yuh know.”

“Might be interestin’.” Skeeter Bill was grinning. “If they come back
again, they might be surprised, ’cause I’m watchin’ that particular
part of these United States.”

“What do yuh mean, Skeet?” asked the sheriff curiously.

“Just what I said, Sheriff. They hadn’t better come back and start
grabbin’ wire again.”

“That watchin’,” said the sheriff. “It might be a long job.”

“Yeah, it might. But who has more time than I have? They don’t need to
hurry. I like to loaf in the shade.”

Skeeter Bill and Fuzzy left the office and went up the street. The
little cattleman was grimly serious.

He said, “What’d yuh tell ’em that for, Skeet?”

“Well, it’s true, Fuzzy.”

“True, shucks! You ain’t goin’ to watch that water-hole.”

Skeeter stopped short and looked down at Fuzzy.

“Who’s goin’ to stop me--you?” he asked.

Fuzzy shoved his hands deep in his pockets and glared up at Skeeter
Bill.

“You ain’t tryin’ to antagonize me, are yuh?” he asked.

“I’m tellin’ yuh to stay down on yore own level. Don’t contradict a
grown man, Fuzzy. I’m goin’ to watch that water-hole.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Fuzzy cuffed his old sombrero over one eye and spat into the dusty
street.

“Well, if yuh are,” he said complainingly, “why tell everybody what
yuh’re goin’ to do. That ain’t usin’ good sense.”

“I don’t care who knows it, Fuzzy. That way, I won’t have to shoot some
innocent friend of mine. I’d hate that.”

“Yore logic,” declared Fuzzy, “is as uneven as a corduroy bridge over a
rock-pile. If they know yo’re watchin’ ’em, they won’t come out there.”

“And the fence don’t get torn down again,” added Skeeter.

“Yuh’ve got me beat,” sighed Fuzzy. “When yuh left for Texas yuh was at
least half-witted--but yuh deteriorated--badly.”

Skeeter Bill’s eyes twinkled. “I like bein’ crazy,” he said. “It makes
thinkin’ so easy on the head. And another thing, Fuzzy--when yuh’re
crazy, nobody can figure out why yuh do crazy things.”

“Mebbe it’s the heat,” sighed Fuzzy, “I dunno, I reckon we better go
back to the ranch, where mebbe Emmy can talk some sense into yore empty
head, Skeet.”

They went back to the ranch and Fuzzy told his wife what Skeeter Bill
insisted on doing. To his surprise, she said:

“Well, I think that is just lovely of him!”

“You--u-u-uh--why, shore it is,” agreed Fuzzy. “You ain’t ailin’
nowhere, are yuh, Emmy?”

“Why?”

“Well, I dunno--I jist thought--oh, well, let it lay. He wants a couple
blankets, a pair of overalls, a shirt and a old hat.”

“What’s he going to do--impersonate an Injun?”

“I dunno, Emmy. If yuh want my opinion, I’d say--”

“I don’t, Fuzzy,” interrupted Aunt Emma sharply. “If Skeeter wants
something, get it for him.”

“Yes’m, shore. Bein’ as you both act crazy, maybe I’m the one that’s
plumb loco. I dunno.”

It was after dark when Skeeter Bill rode away from the Bar D ranchhouse,
blankets and clothes tied behind his saddle. He also carried some
doughnuts, a tin cup and a canteen of cold water. He refused to say what
he intended doing out there, just grinned.

He did not ride up to the spring but tied his horse in a mesquite
thicket and walked the last two hundred yards in the brush. The brush
crowded in fairly close to the spring but to the north was a spread of
open country, covered only with knee-high growth. Near the spring was
a pile of old posts, left over from the fencing.

Skeeter scouted the country fairly well, but it was too dark for him to
see any considerable distance. He cut some brush and sat down behind the
pile of posts, working in the dark. Skeeter was not an artist, and his
creation wouldn’t even have fooled a wary crowd, but from a distance it
might be mistaken for a man.

The neck and head was a broken piece of fencepost, to which he tied
a stick, over which he fitted the old coat. After due deliberation
he fastened it into the post-pile, with only the head and shoulders
showing above the pile. Then he draped the overalls over the posts,
giving the right effect for anyone viewing the spring from the south
side. Skeeter did not have light enough to look it over critically.
Then he took his blankets back in the mesquite, found an opening,
and stretched out for the night, looking up at the stars.

“This is Tuesday night,” he said half-aloud, “and Bill’s birthday is
Saturday. Maybe I’m seven kinds of a darned fool but I ain’t quittin’
on Bill’s druthers--until I have to quit.”

Skeeter Bill’s range training had taught him to awaken at any unusual
sound, but he slept right through until the light of a false-dawn
painted the hills for a few minutes. It was cold up there in the
brush.

He watched the real dawn spread slowly across the divide, sending
streamers of color onto the high points around the valley. He sat up
in his blankets, buckled on his gun-belt and drew in deep breaths of
the morning air.

Suddenly he jerked to his knees, flinging the blankets aside. From
somewhere, fairly close, came the whip-like crack of a rifle. Twice
more it blasted, the echoes clattering back from the hills. Skeeter
Bill was on his feet, gun in hand, hunched low. Then he went swiftly
out along the brush to where he could see the spring and the pile of
posts. His dummy was piled up at the foot of the post-pile, the hat
six feet away!




IV


Cautiously, Skeeter lifted his head. The shots had come from the north,
and Skeeter caught sight of something moving. It was a man, or men, on
horseback. Skeeter’s view was only momentary but Skeeter Bill was not
being fooled by anybody. He stayed right there for at least fifteen
minutes. There was not a sound. Several cows drifted in from the south
and began drinking.

Skeeter Bill walked out and looked at his dummy. One bullet had hit the
hat, gone through the thin piece of fence post, mushroomed badly, and
blown a hole five inches across at the front of the old hat. Another
bullet had struck about a foot lower on the post, and had split it into
two pieces. The bullet-hole was a foot below the top of the collar. The
third bullet had missed.

“Mighty good shootin’ in that light,” said Skeeter Bill, his face grim.
“Either of those bullets would have blasted the life out of a man.”

Skeeter Bill took the coat, hat and overalls. He threw them on his
blankets before starting up the slope. He was careful, as he went up
through the brush. The killer might not be quite satisfied with his
own convictions, and come back to verify them. Bill worked his way
slowly, watching the ground. He had gone about a hundred yards when
he found where a boot-heel had cut into the dirt.

Then he found where a horse had been tied, and more boot-prints. It was
not difficult for Skeeter Bill to backtrack those high-heel tracks,
because the man had made no attempt to disguise his trail. Finally he
found the spot where the man had rested, waiting for daylight, and here
he discovered three empty brass hulls where the man’s rifle had flung
them. They were of thirty-thirty caliber and of a well-known brand.
Skeeter looked them over carefully and put them in his pocket.

Then he got down on his hands and knees, examining every inch of the
dirt around where the man had waited. He rolled and smoked a cigarette
before going back to his blankets, which he rolled up, with the
bullet-marked clothes, and went to his horse.

Breakfast was almost ready at the ranchhouse as Skeeter dismounted and
carried his bundle up to the house. Fuzzy greeted him at the door.

Skeeter Bill merely unrolled the bundle, handed the hat to Fuzzy for
examination, and held up the coat for him to look through. Fuzzy
squinted at Skeeter, his jaw sagging a little.

“I made up a dummy,” said Skeeter, “and that’s what they done to it.
Three shots--two of ’em dead-center.”

Aunt Emma and the two cowboys came in to look at the remains, and they
all stood around, solemn-faced.

Fuzzy said, “That kind of ruins my appetite for breakfast, Skeet.”

“Dead-center--twice!” breathed Len Riggs. “How far, Skeet?”

“At least a hundred yards--and in awful bad light, too.”

“Breakfast is ready,” said Aunt Emma soberly.

There was little conversation at breakfast. For once in her life, Aunt
Emma had no suggestions. This was a serious business. When they had
finished Skeeter and Fuzzy stood outside together.

Fuzzy said, “Skeet, you must have been lookin’ for somethin’ like this,
or yuh wouldn’t have made up that dummy.”

Skeeter Bill smiled slowly. “Just a hunch, Fuzzy--a hunch that worked
out.”

“I’m still fightin’ my hat,” said Fuzzy. “Yuh mean to say that they
want water so bad that they’re willin’ to murder to keep that spring
unfenced?”

Skeeter shook his head slowly. “I don’t, Fuzzy. This deal goes back
a couple years, I believe. Somebody don’t want Skeeter Bill Sarg in
circulation.”

“Hu-u-uh? You mean--they’re gunnin’ for you Skeet?”

“They knew I was watchin’ that water-hole, Fuzzy, and they believed I
was dumb enough to set on that post-pile. My hunch is that the water
ain’t got a thing to do with it.”

Fuzzy Davis’ eyes held a strained, nervous expression, as he tried to
get the situation straight in his own mind. It was difficult to puzzle
out anyone’s reasons for wanting to kill Skeeter Bill. Finally he said:

“I don’t sabe the deal, Skeet. You ain’t had no trouble with anybody
around here. Shucks, you jist got here.”

“Take a look at that old hat,” said Skeeter soberly, “and don’t forget
they thought my head was inside it.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Skeeter Bill wanted to go to town, so Fuzzy went with him. They tied
their horses to the rail in front of the general store where Skeeter
wanted to buy more tobacco. Emory Van Ness, the old merchant, shook
hands warmly with Skeeter Bill, and sold him the tobacco.

“I heard you was in town, Skeeter,” he said. “Going to stay with us for
a while, I hope.”

“Yuh can’t never tell about me,” replied Skeeter Bill. “I’m a
tumble-weed, Emory.”

Skeeter’s eyes swept over the supply of rifle and revolver ammunition on
a shelf behind him, but did not see the brand of rifle cartridges he had
found at the water-hole.

“Do yuh need some shells?” asked Fuzzy.

“I’ve got plenty for my six-shooter,” replied Skeeter. “Have you got a
thirty-thirty, Fuzzy?”

“Yeah, I’ve got one, but the firin’-pin is busted. Been layin’-off to
get it fixed, but there ain’t no gunsmith around here.”

Skeeter mentioned the brand of the shells he had found at the
water-hole, but Van Ness shook his head slowly.

“We ain’t had none of them for a couple months. Got some ordered. Sam
Keenan bought the last box I had. Them others are the same thing. In
fact, I have more calls for them.”

They left the store, and Skeeter Bill drifted down to the New York
Chop House to say hello to Margie Edwards but she was not in evidence.
Another woman was waiting on the tables.

Shorty Hale, the owner, came out from the kitchen, his face just a bit
sheepish. Skeeter Bill asked about Margie.

Shorty said, “She quit the job last night.”

“Yea-a-ah? Did she get a better job, Shorty?”

“She--she didn’t say. Just left.”

Skeeter went down to the little house and found Mrs. Edwards laboring
over a wash-tub.

“Shorty told me you’d quit the restaurant, Margie,” Skeeter said.

“Shorty must be getting polite,” she said. “He fired me.”

Skeeter looked sharply at her. “What for, Margie?”

“I don’t know. We didn’t have any trouble. Everything was going along
all right but when my shift was finished, he told me that I didn’t need
to come back.” She brushed a lock of hair off her forehead. “I don’t
know what I am going to do now.”

Skeeter Bill turned abruptly and left the house, his long legs taking
long strides, as he went back to the restaurant. Shorty came out to
the counter and found Skeeter Bill waiting for him. The expression on
Skeeter’s face was not pleasant, as he said quietly:

“Why did yuh lie to me, Shorty Hale? She didn’t quit.”

Shorty swallowed painfully, but tried to bluster.

“After all--well, she--”

“Go ahead, Shorty. What did she do--or say?”

“Nothin’,” admitted Shorty miserably. “Listen, Skeeter--this is between
me and you--I don’t own this place--I work here. The owner said to get
rid of her and I had to do it. Honest I did.”

“Who owns it, Shorty?”

Shorty Hale shook his head. “I can’t tell yuh, Skeeter. If I did, I’d
lose my job. I’m supposed to own the place. Don’t tell anybody that I
don’t. I jist had to tell you.”

“Sam Keenan?” asked Skeeter quietly. Shorty blinked rapidly.

“I can’t tell yuh, Skeeter. It’s my job.”

“Shorty, I want an honest answer; does Sam Keenan try to hang around
Margie Edwards?”

“I--I hear he does,” whispered Shorty. “I don’t reckon it’s any secret.
He kinda liked her--before Hooty got sent up. It ain’t none of my
business, but I heard that he asked her to get a divorce and marry him
only a week ago--and she refused. She’s kind of foolish. Sam could give
her everythin’ and take care of them two kids.”

“Much obliged, Shorty. I won’t mention it.”

“I--I hope yuh don’t. I need this job, Skeeter.”

Fuzzy Davis was waiting for Skeeter Bill in front of the general store.
Skeeter said, “Fuzzy, let’s ride out to the Tumblin’ K and see Sam
Keenan. We can cut across the hills from there.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Grumpily, Fuzzy said it was all right with him, but wondered why
Skeeter wanted to go to the Tumbling K. In fact, he was trying hard
to understand this tall, long-legged cowpuncher, who had always been
more or less of an enigma. On the way out Skeeter said:

“Fuzzy, did you ever know that Sam Keenan was tryin’ to shine around
Margie Edwards?”

“Well--uh--oh, I’ve heard he was. Never paid no attention, myself. Why?”

“I just wondered,” replied Skeeter Bill.

Sam Keenan’s place was a regular bachelor ranchhouse, with very few
refining touches. There was a long, rickety porch. A man was sitting
on the steps, working over a gun. He was “Arizona” Ashley, who had
been Keenan’s cook for years, a thin, wiry old-timer. He shook hands
violently with Skeeter Bill and Fuzzy, and invited them to sit in
the shade.

Ashley said, “Sam went to Silver Springs yesterday afternoon and the
boys are all workin’. Sam’ll prob’ly be back late this afternoon. How
have yuh been, Skeeter?”

“Just fine, Arizona. Yuh’re lookin’ well.”

“Yeah, I’m all right.”

“What are yuh doin’--gettin’ ready for a war?” asked Fuzzy.

Arizona grinned. “No, I hope I ain’t, Fuzzy. The boys are allus kickin’
about the way this gun shoots, so I thought I’d tinker it a little. Just
gettin’ ready to try it out. See that tin can on top of the mesquite out
there, Skeet? See if you can hit it.”

Skeeter took the rifle, cuddled the butt against his shoulder, and
carefully squeezed the trigger. The tin can jumped into the air and
disappeared. Skeeter Bill levered out the empty shell, and handed the
gun to Arizona, who said:

“See anythin’ wrong with that gun, Skeet?”

“It shoots where yuh hold it, Arizona.”

“That’s what I allus tell the boys--it ain’t the gun, it’s you.”

“Skeet always could shoot the eye out of a gnat,” said Fuzzy.

“And never lift its eyebrow,” added Arizona soberly. “It’s jist a gift,
that’s all. Some folks never can learn. Are yuh stayin’ at Fuzzy’s
place, Skeet?”

“Yeah, for a few days. I’m sort of a drifter, Arizona.”

“I know yuh are, and I’m sorry, Skeet. It don’t pay. I used to want to
keep movin’, but I finally got smart, and I says to me:

“‘Arizony, yuh’re gettin’ old. A rollin’ stone gathers no moss. You get
a good, steady job and stick with it.’ And that’s what I’ve done. I’ve
been here eighteen years, and look what I’ve got.”

“What have yuh got?” asked Skeeter Bill.

“A steady job and I only owe three dollars and six bits. Yuh never can
tell how I’d be fixed if I kept on driftin’.”

“Yuh’ve made a lot of sacrifices to git where yuh are, too,” remarked
Fuzzy. “I ’member when yuh didn’t have anythin’.”

“That’s before I got smart, Fuzzy.”




V


Declining to wait and eat supper at the Tumbling K, Skeeter Bill and
Fuzzy cut across the hills to the Bar D. Aunt Emma was a little worried.

She said, “After what happened this mornin’, I’d naturally worry.”

“Nobody wants to hurt Fuzzy,” said Skeeter Bill.

“They shot up a dummy, didn’t they?”

“I resent that, Emmy,” protested Fuzzy. “Mebbe the heat has affected
yore good manners. Set down and fan yourself.”

“I think I will,” she smiled. “I’ve got the mulligan simmering on the
stove, and the biscuits ready to shoot into the oven. That old stove is
hotter than what sinners have facing them. Any news in Yellow Butte?”

“We didn’t find any,” sighed Fuzzy, fanning himself with his hat.
“At least, I didn’t--I dunno about Skeet. I seen him come from the
New York Chop House, walkin’ like the devil was proddin’ him. He was
gone a few minutes, and came back faster’n that. Into the Chop House
he goes, stays a minute or two, and comes out.”

“Keepin’ cases on me, eh?” Skeeter Bill. “I’d like to ask yuh a
question, Fuzzy; did you ever hear that Sam Keenan owns the New York
Chop House?”

“Sam Keenan? No, I never did, Skeet. Where’d yuh get that idea?”

“Things kind of come to me,” replied Skeeter Bill.

“How is Margie Edwards?” asked Aunt Emma.

“She got fired,” replied Skeeter Bill. “Shorty told me she quit, and she
said she was fired. So I put it up to Shorty and he said that he didn’t
own the cafe but took orders from the owner, and that the owner had told
him to fire Margie.”

“Aw, I think he’s tryin’ to crawl out of it, Skeet.”

“If I thought he was, I’d drown him in his own soup.”

“By golly, that’s it!” exclaimed Fuzzy.

“What’s it?” asked Skeeter Bill quickly.

“A sensible use for Shorty Hale’s soup. At that, it might be too thin to
drown a man. You can breathe it without difficulty.”

“Fuzzy!” exclaimed Aunt Emma. “That is ridiculous. But, Skeeter, what on
earth gave you the idea that Sam Keenan might own that restaurant?”

“I dunno,” sighed Skeeter Bill, “I suppose I had a hunch.”

“You and yore hunches!” snorted Fuzzy.

“Go look at that old hat, Fuzzy, and the back of the coat.”

“Yea-a-ah, I reckon yuh do have flashes of intelligence. Sometimes I get
smart, too.”

“When?” asked Aunt Emma soberly.

Fuzzy turned to Skeeter. “Ain’t it like a woman--allus tryin’ to pin yuh
down to a exact date?”

“And never gettin’ an answer,” said Aunt Emma, heading back for the
kitchen.

Ollie Ashley and Len Riggs wanted to go to Yellow Butte, and Skeeter
Bill decided to go with them, against the protests of Fuzzy Davis, who
declared that Skeeter might run into trouble, especially in the dark.

“Trouble is my middle name, Fuzzy,” Skeeter Bill told him. “I’ll be all
right. Besides that, I’ve got two good men with me.”

“Them two?” scoffed Fuzzy. “Lot of help they’d be. I can snap my fingers
and make ’em both go for cover.”

“When, for instance?” asked Ollie soberly.

“Aw, yuh’re just like Emmy, allus askin’ for dates. Go ahead and get
killed. Might improve the country--I dunno.”

Ollie and Len tied their horses at the Seven-Up Saloon, but Skeeter rode
straight down to the Edwards house. He tied his horse to the rickety
fence and went up to the lighted house. Young Bill came to the door to
welcome Skeeter Bill. Margie and Nellie were reading a book. They were
delighted to see Skeeter.

Margie said, “You went out of here so fast yesterday that I had a
feeling you were mad at me.”

“Shucks, I never get mad at my friends,” said Skeeter with a smile. “I
just had somethin’ on my mind at that time.”

They sat and talked for an hour, before the two children went to bed.
After they were gone Skeeter Bill asked Margie if she knew who owned
the New York Chop House.

“Shorty Hale,” she replied.

“Shorty says he don’t, and that he had orders from the owner to fire
you.”

“That’s funny, Skeeter; everybody believes that Shorty owns it. And if
there were another owner, why would he want to fire me? I haven’t done
anything--not that I know about.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Skeeter Bill shook his head, hunched forward in an old rocker. Then he
looked at her and said quietly:

“Margie, I don’t want to pry into yore private affairs, but I’d like to
know if Sam Keenan ever made love to you?”

Margie Edwards’ laugh sounded forced, but she said, “It wouldn’t be
anything new--if he did, Skeeter.”

“Wanted to marry yuh, eh?”

“Yes. But I wouldn’t marry him, Skeeter. I told him I was waiting for
Hooty to come back, and he said--well, he said I’d have a mighty long
wait. I told him I’d get along all right.”

“Were Hooty and Sam Keenan good friends?”

“Well I don’t know if they were good friends, but they certainly weren’t
enemies, Skeeter. But what is all this about? You ask questions like a
lawyer.”

“I’m tryin’ to make two and two equal six, Margie. I kind of feel that
I’ve woke up some sleepin’ dogs in Road-Runner Valley, and they ain’t
happy about havin’ their sleep interrupted. I’ll be on my way to the
ranch, I reckon, but I’ll be seein’ yuh again, I hope.”

“Be careful,” she warned. “I don’t know what you are trying to do, but
it is probably something dangerous.”

“I like it,” he said, smiling at her. “Don’t worry, Margie; this is only
Tuesday.”

He closed the door behind him, leaving her wondering what he meant about
this only being Tuesday.

It was very dark out at the old fence, and Skeeter Bill almost had to
find his horse by feel rather than by sight. As he slid the reins over
the horse’s head, something told him that danger was near him. There
had not been a sound, but some sixth sense warned him.

Instantly he ducked low, intending to slide under the horse but a
hissing rope slashed across his face, jerking tight over the bridge of
his nose, and he was yanked backwards into the dirt. The horse whirled
in against the fence when Skeeter Bill went down, and a voice snapped
a curse.

Skeeter came down on one hip and elbow, and for a fraction of a second
the rope slacked. In that fraction, Skeeter Bill drew his gun and shot
blindly, trying to use that tightening rope as a guide. A man yelled
sharply, and the rope fell away.

Quickly Bill jerked the rope from his eyes, going flat, gun ready. A
shot blasted out, and the whirling horse went completely over Skeeter
Bill but did not strike him. He heard a man running away along the
fence as he got to his feet and caught his horse. Margie called from
the doorway:

“Skeeter Bill! Skeeter, are you hurt?”

“I’m all right, Margie,” he called. “Somebody was just foolin’. See yuh
later.”

The two kids crowded in behind their mother, questioning her about the
shooting but she was unable to tell them what happened, except that
Skeeter Bill said he was all right.

“I’ll betcha he’s a ring-tailed wolf in a fight,” declared young Bill
proudly. “Look at them shoulders! Man, I hope I grow up to be as good
a man as he is. Mom, I bet dad would like that.”

“Yes, I believe he would, Bill. Now go back to bed and forget it.
Skeeter Bill can take care of himself.”

Skeeter rode back to the Bar D. Fuzzy and his wife were still up. Ollie
and Len had already returned home and were in the bunkhouse. Skeeter’s
nose was skinned, and there was a rope-burn over his left eye. He told
them what happened.

Fuzzy said, “Skeet, things like that ain’t no joke.”

“I ain’t jokin’, Fuzzy. It’s got me puzzled tryin’ to figger why they
tried to rope me. What their idea was I don’t know, unless they figured
on draggin’ me around. Anyway, it turned out all right. I shot once,
but I don’t reckon I hit anybody. Come to think of it,” said Skeeter
thoughtfully, “I heard a man yelp.”

“Well, that’s the doggoneddest thing I ever heard!” exclaimed the little
cowman. “Skeet, can’t yuh tell us why they’re aimin’ to ease you off
this mortal coil?”

“Yore guess is almost as good as mine, Fuzzy.”

“Yeah, almost,” said Fuzzy dryly. “Emmy, why don’t you get into this
discussion? Ain’t you got no ideas?”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Aunt Emma shook her head, and almost lost her glasses.

“I reckon we might as well go to bed,” sighed Fuzzy, “unless yuh want
to stay up, Skeet, so as not to disappoint ’em if they come out here
to finish up on yuh.”

“No, I think they’re too disappointed to try again tonight.”

They were getting ready for bed, when they heard horses coming up to
the house. Fuzzy went over by the door, waiting for the visitors to
knock when a voice called:

“Fuzzy, this is Al Creedon!”

“The law is among us,” whispered Fuzzy, and opened the door.

It was the sheriff, with his deputy, Muddy Poole. Skeeter Bill was
standing in the doorway to the kitchen, and called a greeting to the
officers.

“Ridin’ late, ain’t yuh, Al?” asked Fuzzy.

“Kinda. Glad yuh’re home, Skeeter. We hoped you’d be.”

“What’s eatin’ yuh, Al?” asked Skeeter curiously.

“About what happened tonight--at Edwards’ house, Skeet. Several of us
heard the two shots fired, but we had a hard time findin’ where it
was. Mrs. Edwards told us that it happened in front of her place, and
that you said you was all right.”

“That’s right,” admitted Skeeter. “Somebody tried to rope me in the
dark.”

“He’s still got rope-burns on his eye and nose,” said Aunt Emma.

The sheriff nodded. “Skeeter,” he said, “did you know a feller named
Dutch Held?”

Skeeter Bill shook his head. “I don’t believe I ever did, Al.”

“I’ve heard of him,” said Fuzzy. “They say he’s a bad boy.”

“Was,” said the sheriff. “Skeet, how many times did you shoot?”

“Once. Somebody shot at me, too. Just two shots fired. I’ve got a kind
of hunch that I hit somebody.”

“So have I,” said the sheriff quietly.

Skeeter Bill looked sharply at the sheriff.

“What do yuh mean, Al?” he asked curiously.

“Where was yore horse, when you started to climb on him?”

“Why--right in front of the gate.”

“Uh-huh. That makes the corner of the fence about twenty feet away.
Well, Skeeter, we found Dutch Held at the corner of the fence, dead
as a door-knob. He had one bullet through his right arm. In fact, it
busted his arm at the elbow. The other bullet was in the back of his
head. That one killed him instantly.”

Skeeter Bill stared thoughtfully at the floor. That other shot had not
been fired at him, but into the back of Dutch Held’s head.

Fuzzy said, “It don’t make sense, Al.”

“What do you think, Skeeter?” asked Muddy Poole.

“There’s only one thing to think, Muddy,” replied Skeeter Bill. “The man
who was with Dutch Held didn’t want to fool around with a crippled man,
so he blasted him down.”

“That would be a terrible thing to do!” exclaimed Aunt Emma.

“Would yuh mind doin’ a little talkin’, Skeet?” asked the sheriff.

Skeeter Bill smiled slowly. “Go ahead,” he said, “I ain’t got no
favorite subjects, so select yore poison, Al.”

“One of the boys from this spread intimated that somebody tried to
murder you this mornin’, Skeeter. They tried it again tonight. It just
happens that I’m the sheriff of this county and things like that are my
business. What’s yore opinion?”

“I agree with yuh, Sheriff. Go right ahead and find out who is tryin’ to
kill me. It’s all right with me.”

“You mean you don’t know?”

“Sheriff,” replied Skeeter Bill seriously, “if I knew--sure--yuh don’t
think I’d be waitin’ for them to try it again, do yuh?”

“Like I told yuh on the way out here, Al, we’re wastin’ our time,” said
Muddy Poole. The sheriff sighed and got to his feet.

“I reckon yuh’re right, Muddy. I hope I see you again, Skeeter.”

“That’s a cinch,” said Skeeter soberly. “You go ahead and hope that I
can see you.”

After the two officers had gone, Skeeter Bill said:

“Fuzzy, what do yuh know about this Dutch Held?”

“Well, he was a bad boy, Skeet. Suspected of rustlin’, horse-stealin’,
smugglin’--finally, murder. Shot a feller in a holdup in Yuma. Dutch
used to be around here once in a while, when he worked for the Double
Circle Seven, north of Silver Springs. I hadn’t heard anythin’ about
him lately.”

“Much obliged, Fuzzy. Well, folks I reckon we can go to bed and get a
good sleep. I think that somebody is awful disappointed over tonight’s
work--and it ain’t me. Goodnight, folks.”

“You better say your prayers,” advised Aunt Emma.

Skeeter grinned at her and said, “Aunt Emma, how about you doin’ it for
me? My prayers never seemed to go high enough to do any good.”

“I’d like that,” said Fuzzy seriously. “It’ll give her less time to
implore the Lord to make me a better man. I dunno who she’s holdin’
up as an example.”




VI


Although Fuzzy went to Yellow Butte with Skeeter Bill next day, he was
not enthused over it at all. They talked with the sheriff, who told them
that the inquest would be held Saturday forenoon, delayed because Doctor
Boardman had to go to Crescent City on business. Skeeter Bill lost no
time in going down to see the doctor, who was ready to drive away.

“I wanted to ask yuh a question, Doc,” said Skeeter Bill. “On the day or
two after Hooty Edwards was shot, was you called on to treat any sort of
a gunshot wound?”

The gray-haired doctor shook his head. “No, I’m sure I wasn’t, Sarg. I
would have remembered it, I’m sure.”

Skeeter Bill thanked him and went back to the main street, where he
found Fuzzy Davis and told him he was going to Silver Springs.

“I’ll be back for that inquest,” he told Fuzzy. “Don’t worry--I’ll be
here.”

“Who’s worryin’?” demanded the little cowman. “You must think yuh’re
awful important. Go ahead and get yourself shot. Silver Springs is a
awful nice place to die. I’ll tell Emmy to pray for yuh.”

“Every little helps.” Skeeter flashed a smile. “Much obliged, Fuzzy.”

It was late Friday night when Skeeter Bill came back to the Bar D ranch.
Aunt Emma fixed supper for him, and Fuzzy did a lot of hinting, but
Skeeter did not mention why he went to Silver Springs.

Aunt Emma said, “Fuzzy and I have to be at the inquest tomorrow and they
said you’ve got to be there, too. I saw Margie Edwards and they’ve told
her to be present and bring the two kids.”

Skeeter Bill smiled over his coffee. “We’ll have a regular old-timers’
reunion,” he said. “Anythin’ new, Fuzzy?”

“Nothin’ unusual. I went out to Hangin’ Rock water-hole but the fence is
all right yet. Nobody shot at yuh in Silver Springs?”

“No, they treated me all right. Nice place over there.”

“You can have it,” replied Fuzzy. “Yuh’re goin’ to the inquest, ain’t
yuh?”

“If I live--yeah.”

“My goodness!” exclaimed Aunt Emma. “You ain’t figurin’ on gettin’
killed between now and then, are yuh, Skeet?”

“Livin’ in a benighted land like this, Aunt Emma, it don’t do for
anybody to plan too far ahead.”

Saturday was always a big day in Yellow Butte. It was the shopping day
for almost everybody in Road-Runner Valley and they not only brought
their kids, but their dogs, as well. By ten o’clock all the available
hitchrack space was taken. Fuzzy and Aunt Emma tied their horses behind
the sheriff’s office, along with Skeeter’s horse.

They held the inquest in the courtroom at the courthouse, with Doctor
Boardman, the coroner, officiating. The room was filled, long before
the inquest was called to order. Mrs. Edwards and her two children,
Fuzzy and Aunt Emma and Skeeter Bill, all being witnesses, were
accorded a special number of seats at the front.

From his position Skeeter Bill could look over most of the crowd. Many
of them he had known for a long time. In the front row of seats he could
see Slim Lacey and Sam Keenan. Behind Lacey was Johnny Greer, Keenan’s
foreman, and some of his men. In the selection of a jury, Sam Keenan was
chosen, along with five other men of Yellow Butte.

Sheriff Al Creedon and his deputy, Muddy Poole, had seats near the
coroner, basking in the gaze of the proletariat.

Doctor Boardman opened the proceedings, outlining the circumstances of
the finding of Dutch Held’s body, and giving the cause of his death.

“In my opinion,” stated the doctor, “someone held a forty-five almost
against the back of Dutch Held’s head and fired the fatal shot, the gun
held so closely that it burned his hair.”

He waited for that fact to soak into the crowd and then said:

“We will now call Skeeter Bill Sarg to the stand.”

The coroner clumsily administered the oath for Skeeter Bill to tell the
truth, and Skeeter swore that he would.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Skeeter took the chair, stretching his long legs. He shoved his
holstered gun to a handy position.

The coroner said, “It is hardly proper to wear a gun on the witness
stand.”

“Who is liable to have more need of one, Doc?” asked Skeeter, and the
crowd laughed. The doctor nodded, and said:

“Go ahead and tell the jury what happened in front of Mrs. Edwards’
home.”

Skeeter told them in detail of the attack on him, how he got out of it,
and said that he didn’t know anyone had been killed.

“I thought that shot was fired at me,” he confessed, “until the sheriff
came out to the Bar D and told me what happened.”

“I understand that you do not know--did not know--Dutch Held, and that
you do not know why the attack was made on you,” said the doctor.

“I never met Dutch Held, but I deny the last statement, Doc.”

The doctor stared at Skeeter for several moments, and asked quietly, “Do
you mean to say you know why you were attacked?”

“I do,” replied Skeeter Bill coldly. “They tried it before, Doc, but
they shot a dummy, instead of me. It was good shootin’, too, but yuh
can’t kill a fencepost, even if it is wearin’ a hat. Yuh see,” he
continued, after a pause, “the dry-gulcher made a mistake. He never
picked up the empty shells from his rifle. Almost every rifle leaves
its own mark on a shell. Mebbe it’s the way the firin’-pin hits the
primer, a scratch on the shell, always in the same place. Doc, I
found those shells and I shot a gun, just to get the empty shell--and
they match.

“But wait a minute! This deal is older’n just a few days. It goes
back to the conviction of Hooty Edwards. Yuh see, gents, a bartender
put dope into Hooty’s whisky that night, and that’s why Hooty didn’t
know what happened. It’s a cinch that no doped man could have robbed
that bank. That man had to be cold sober.

“The sheriff swapped shots with the bank-robber that mornin’ and the
sheriff was sure he hit the man. Gentlemen, he did, but it wasn’t
Hooty Edwards. The man he hit went to a doctor for treatment of a
gunshot wound next day, but not to Doc Boardman. He was scared to do
that.”

There was a long silence in that big room. Every eye was on Skeeter
Bill, waiting for him to continue. He moved his long legs, pulling his
feet in close to his chair. Then he said in a brittle voice:

“Slim Lacey, keep yore hands in sight.”

Suddenly Skeeter Bill flung himself sideways, landing on his knees, six
feet away from the witness chair just as a bullet smashed into the back
of the chair. Johnny Greer, hunched behind Slim Lacey, had drawn a gun,
unnoticed by anybody, except Skeeter Bill, who had seen his shoulder
action.

Skeeter Bill’s gun flamed from his kneeling position, the bullet
slashing across Lacey’s shoulder, but centering Greer. The room was
instantly in an uproar. Keenan, in the jury box, flung a man away
from in front of him, giving him room to shoot. He fairly screamed:

“You dirty bloodhound, I’ll--”

Skeeter’s gun flamed again, and Keenan went to his knees over empty
chairs, flinging his gun ahead of him. Men were clawing at each other,
crashing over chairs, trying to get away from the line of fire. Someone
yelled:

“Slim Lacey is gettin’ away! Stop him!”

There was no chance to get through that milling crowd. Skeeter Bill
whirled to the front windows. They were not built to be opened, but
Skeeter hurled a chair through one of them, and went out onto the
sidewalk as Slim Lacey ran from the entrance. The gambler saw Skeeter
Bill, whirled, gun in hand, but caught his heel and went flat on his
back, firing one shot straight into the air, before Skeeter’s toe
caught the gun and kicked it halfway across the street.

Men were piling out of the courthouse. Skeeter yanked the gambler to his
feet. Al Creedon and Muddy Poole had fought their way loose from the
crowd, and came running. One of the men was the gray-haired prosecutor,
who had sent Hooty Edwards to the penitentiary, and his face was just a
little white.

“I’ll talk!” panted the frightened Lacey, cringing at the expression
of the faces around him. “I--I didn’t kill anybody. I gave Hooty the
dope in his drink, but Keenan paid me to do it. I put it in his last
drink, when he said he was going home.”

“Keep goin’,” said Skeeter Bill tensely.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The gambler blurted out his confession hastily, in a high-pitched
voice. “Sam Keenan was broke, and he robbed the bank, and put the
deadwood on Hooty Edwards. He--he wanted Edwards’ wife. Then Keenan
bought the Seven-Up and the New York Chop House. I didn’t own the
saloon, but everybody thought I did.”

“Why did they try to kill me?” asked Skeeter Bill.

“Because they thought you knew too much. They wanted to make Fuzzy
Davis sell the Bar D. That’s why Keenan hired Greer, and Greer was an
old bunkie of Dutch Held. Greer was the best shot in the state. He
says he shot Dutch accidentally, when Dutch ducked in front of him.
He was tryin’ to kill you, Skeeter. That’s all I know. But I didn’t
murder anybody--honest, I didn’t!”

Muddy Poole snapped handcuffs on Slim Lacey and headed for the jail with
him. Keenan wasn’t dead, but badly hurt. They carried him outside; he
was conscious. He said to Al Creedon and the prosecutor:

“Mrs. Edwards can have the Tumblin’ K--it’s hers. Where’s Skeeter Bill?”

“Right here, Sam,” replied the sheriff, pushing the tall cowpuncher
forward.

Sam Keenan scowled up at Skeeter Bill, his voice weakening, as he said:

“You win, Sarg. But I’d like to live long enough to kill Doc Higgins
over at Silver Springs, for tellin’ you that he doctored a bullet-wound
on me the day they got Hooty.”

Skeeter Bill hunched down lower, his face grim, as he said:

“Yuh’re wrong, Sam. Doc didn’t tell me that. Yuh see, he wasn’t comin’
back to Silver Springs until today, so I couldn’t wait.”

“You--uh--” Keenan blinked painfully, as he realized what had happened.
Then he said, “But you found that matchin’ thirty-thirty shell,
Skeeter.”

“No, I didn’t, Sam,” denied Skeeter. “I tried to, but the blamed
extractor flung the shell through a crack in the porch floor, and I
didn’t have a chance to shoot twice.”

“What did yuh have?” whispered Keenan.

“All I had was a rawhide honda, which I found at Fuzzy’s spring, after
the wires was torn loose. It’s got a JG mark, done with a hot wire. That
sounded like Johnny Greer, and that’s all I had--except the knowledge
that when a man’s guilty, he’ll fall for a lie, and you was guilty,
Sam.”

Skeeter Bill turned away. Fuzzy, Aunt Emma, Margie Edwards and her two
children were talking excitedly.

Fuzzy said, “We’ll have Hooty back here in two shakes, I tell yuh.
You’ll own the Tumblin’ K, too. Whooee-ee! Ole Skeet shore mussed up
that rat’s nest in a hurry, didn’t yuh, Skeet? I jist shook hands with
Dan Houk. We was both so darned excited that we forgot to be enemies.
He invited me to have a drink, but Emmy was listenin’. Well, darn yore
long hide, why don’tcha say somethin’?”

Skeeter Bill smiled slowly, his eyes shifting from face to face, until
he was looking at young Bill Edwards, his blue eyes slightly red, cheeks
just a trifle tear-stained. His eyes were just a bit wide, as he looked
at Skeeter Bill.

Skeeter Bill said, very softly: “Happy Birthday, Bill!”

“It--sure--is,” whispered young Bill, and Skeeter walked away, yanking
his hat down over his eyes.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the Fall, 1948 issue
of _Giant Western_ magazine.]





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SKEETER BILL COMES TO TOWN ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


