The Project Gutenberg eBook of A second day in Mary Carrow's school
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: A second day in Mary Carrow's school

Author: Anonymous

Release date: October 8, 2025 [eBook #77010]

Language: English

Original publication: Philadelphia, PA: American Sunday-School Union, 1849

Credits: Eloise Tara Unerman and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A SECOND DAY IN MARY CARROW'S SCHOOL ***





                              A SECOND DAY

                                   IN

                         MARY CARROW’S SCHOOL.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration:

  ~Second Day.~
  Carry Deacon and her little Sister, looking at the ducks.
]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              A SECOND DAY

                                   IN

                         MARY CARROW’S SCHOOL.


                     American Sunday-School Union:

                    _PHILADELPHIA_: 316 CHESTNUT ST.
                       _NEW YORK_: 147 NASSAU ST.
                         _BOSTON_: 9 CORNHILL.
                      _LOUISVILLE_: 103 FOURTH ST.

                    --------------------------------

      Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1849, by the
                      AMERICAN SUNDAY-SCHOOL UNION,
 in the Clerk’s Office of the District Court for the Eastern District of
                              Pennsylvania.

                    --------------------------------

☞ No books are published by the AMERICAN SUNDAY-SCHOOL UNION without the
sanction of the Committee of Publication, consisting of fourteen
members, from the following denominations of Christians, viz. Baptist,
Methodist, Congregationalist, Episcopal, Presbyterian and Reformed
Dutch. Not more than three of the members can be of the same
denomination, and no book can be published to which any member of the
Committee shall object.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   A
                               SECOND DAY
                                   IN
                         MARY CARROW’S SCHOOL.

                    --------------------------------


A cool, rainy morning. The boys and girls all came to school with thick
shoes on, and coats and shawls to protect them from the wet. When Mary
came, she told her scholars she was glad to find the rain had not kept
them at home. Mary smiled, and looked around to see if they had all
come, and she counted. Charles Linn and Harry Linn, and their sister
Lucy. Lily Forester, and her brother Eddy. Susan Field, and Ellen Raby.

All here, but Carry Deacon. Mary said, “Who can tell why Carry has not
come to school? I do not like to miss one of my little scholars. I like
to have them all with me.”

No one could tell why Carry had not come. Mary then helped the smaller
scholars to take off their coats and shawls; and she showed them how to
hang up their wet things to dry on the pegs in the entry; and she bade
them put their umbrellas into a pail, which stood by the door on purpose
to receive them. Mary asked if they had all brought their dinners? And
one said, “I have brought mine.” And another said, “We have brought
ours.” And Mary said, “We have brought ours.” It was not far for Mary
and the Linns to go home to dinner; but she liked to indulge her
scholars when she could, and she knew she could not please them better
than to stay and dine with them on rainy days.

The boys and girls put their dinner-baskets into a little closet outside
the school-room door; and then Mary rang her bell—the signal that it was
time to collect. While they were putting their dinner-baskets away,
Harry Linn said to Lily Forester,

“Lily, are you glad it’s a rainy day? I am.”

Lily said, “I am glad, too.”

“Harry, what have you got for dinner?”

“I don’t know,” Harry said. “Mary put up our dinner while I was looking
at father when he was getting into the wagon.”

“I’ll tell you what I’ve got, Harry,” said Lily; “a little pie with my
name on it! Do you remember about Anne Lyle, and the little pie with her
name on it? I told mother about it, when I went home, and she said if I
was a good girl, she would make me a little pie, and put my name on it.
Look here, Harry. I will show you.” And Lily lifted up the cloth that
was over their dinner, and there was a little patty-pan pie, with L. F.
plainly stamped on it.

Harry said, “How nice that is! Will you give me some of it, Lily?”

And Lily told Harry she would cut it in halves at dinner-time, and give
him the largest half.

Mary rang her little bell again, and Harry and Lily went into school.

While the scholars were taking their seats, Carry Deacon arrived. She
was very wet, and her face was red; and she looked fretted and tired.
Mary said,

“I am glad to see you, Carry; but what is the matter? How did you get so
wet?”

Carry told Mary her umbrella was broken, and it did not keep the rain
off.

“You are so wet, Carry,” said Mary, “that I fear you will be sick; and
you are too far off from home to be sent back in the rain.”

Mary thought a minute what she should do, and then she told Charles
Linn, (who was the largest boy in the school,) to run home to his
mother, and ask her to please to lend a pair of Lucy’s shoes and
stockings, for a little girl to wear, who had come to school very wet.
Charles Linn was an obliging, lively boy, and he ran off at once. While
he was gone, Mary took off Carry’s wet shawl, and sent her into the
little room adjoining the school-room, to wash her face and her feet.
There was a pitcher of water out in the little room, and soap, and a
basin, and a cup, and a towel. Before Carry had done washing her feet,
Charles Linn came back with the dry shoes and stockings. Then Mary went
out to Carry, and she helped her to put them on. And she took a little
pocket comb out of her pocket, and combed Carry’s hair smoothly, and
then brought her into school. Mary was sure Carry had done something
wrong, but she did not ask her about it, because Carry always told the
truth. Mary thought she would be very kind to Carry, and then Carry
would perhaps come and tell her about the mishaps of her walk to school,
without being asked. Carry was a very giddy, careless little girl, and
she sometimes forgot to do as she was told, when she did not really mean
to be naughty.

This was Grammar morning; and while Mary attended to the grammar-class,
Harry, and Lily, and Ellen Raby, looked over their spelling-lesson.

Charles Linn was at the head of the grammar-class. Mary asked Charles if
he could tell her what a NOUN was? Charles said, a noun was the
grammatical name of any thing that we could see, or feel, or taste, or
smell. Mary asked the scholar who stood next in the class, to point to
something in the room which was a noun. She pointed to a book, and Mary
said, “That is right.” Then Mary asked the next one, why book was a
noun, and her little scholar could not tell. The one who stood below her
answered. She said, book was a noun because we could see it; and she
went above the girl who had missed. Mary said to one, “Think of a noun
which you can taste, and tell me what it is.” And he answered, “Apple.”

Carry Deacon was the one who had missed, and Mary asked Carry to think
of something which she liked to look at and play with. Carry said,
“Kittens.”

“Now tell me, Carry, what a noun is?”

Carry answered, “A noun is the name of any thing that we can see.”

“Then what is a kitten?”

“O, now I know,” Carry said. “Kitten is a noun, because I can see it.”

Mary questioned her scholars until she thought they understood all about
a noun; and then she told them, the next grammar-lesson would be the
Adjective.

“Now you may take your seats,” Mary said, “and look over your
reading-lesson, while I hear the little ones spell.”

Harry Linn, and Lily Forester, and Ellen Raby, said a spelling-lesson;
and there were some words in their lesson which Mary explained to them,
because they did not understand what these words meant. Ellen Raby
spelled Wild Deer, and she asked Harry Linn if he knew what a wild deer
was? Harry said, “I guess it is a goat. Let us ask Mary.”

Mary told them it was not a goat, and she would see if she could find a
picture of a wild deer to show them. She had a large book, full of
pictures; and there were horses, and cows and goats, and many different
kinds of animals in it.

Mary soon found a picture of a wild deer, and all the scholars wished to
come and look at it. She told them they might come. And they asked her
to please to tell them something about a wild deer. Mary told them, that
the part of America where they lived, and where the school-house stood,
was once a great forest of trees, where only Indians lived, and wild
deers and other animals. She told them that the Indians used to hunt the
wild deer, and shoot them, that they might have them to eat. Their flesh
was very tender and good, and was called venison.

[Illustration: a wild deer]

“Why are there not any wild deer here now, Mary?” asked Ellen.

“Because there is no place for them to live in. The forests, where they
like to live, are all cut down; and now, instead of forests, we have
fine farms, and houses on them to live in.”

“Who cut down the forests, Mary?” said Ellen.

“Our forefathers, who came here a great while ago.”

“But why did not our forefathers let the pretty little wild deers stay
here, Mary?”

“They would not stay,” Mary said. “They are afraid of people, of men and
women, and of little boys and girls, and they ran away from them.”

“Where did they go, Mary?”

“Away into the forests, which are many hundreds of miles from here. When
our forefathers came here, they wanted houses to live in, and something
to eat; and they built themselves houses, and cut down the trees before
they could plant corn, and wheat, and rye, and potatoes. They had to cut
down the trees before they could make farms.”

Carry looked as if she did not quite understand Mary, and Mary said,
“You know, Carry, your mother told you, you might have a little garden
of your own, and she gave you a little piece of ground to make your
garden of, which was full of cedar bushes; and do you not remember, you
asked your father if he would cut down the cedar bushes, so that you
could have a nice smooth place for your flower seeds?”

Carry said, “Yes, I remember it, and father cut down all the cedar
bushes for me, and then he dug up the ugly roots, and he took out a
spade one morning and dug up the ground and made it soft. And then
mother gave me some flowers out of her garden, and she showed me how to
plant them in my garden; and she gave me some seeds, and she showed me
how to make little holes in the ground to hold the seeds. I put the
seeds in the little holes and covered them up with the soft earth, and
mother says they will grow into beautiful flowers by and by.”

“Do you understand now, Carry,” said Mary, “why our forefathers cut down
the forest trees?

“The land was covered all over with trees, just as your little garden
was covered over with cedar bushes; and you know you could not have a
garden of flowers, until the cedar bushes were cut away.”

Carry said, “Yes, I understand now. The people who came here wanted to
plant wheat, and rye, and corn, and they could not plant seeds till the
great trees were cut down.”

Charles Linn said he would like to have another look at the wild deer
picture; and Mary allowed him and all the scholars to examine it.

Eddy Forester said, “The deer’s horns were like some his father had at
home, to hang up his Sunday hat on; and his father called them antlers.”

“Did your father ever tell you where they came from, Eddy?” asked Mary.

“Yes,” said Eddy. “He told us one night—Lily and me—that they were the
horns of a deer, which our great-grandfather shot a long time ago, on
the spot where our house now stands.”

“Oh, yes,” Lily said, “I remember, it was before we went to bed. I was
sitting on father’s lap, and Eddy was sitting on my little stool, and
mother was making me a new frock, when father told us about the
Indians.”

“Yes,” Eddy said, “he told us that when our great-grandfather came to
this country from England, there was only a great forest of trees here,
and no houses to be seen. He lived in a log-hut, which he, and the men
who came with him, built for themselves: and they had not any thing to
eat but the deer and wild turkeys which they shot. Father told us all
that, and he said the antlers had been kept ever since our
great-grandfather shot the wild deer in the forest.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

Mary said, “Now I will put away the large picture book, and you may all
take your seats, while I prepare the black board.” Mary told all her
scholars to stand up, and they answered in concert the questions she
asked.

She drew a mark on the black board thus, —— and told them to say what
she had drawn; and they answered in concert, “a straight line.” Then she
drew other figures, thus:

[Illustration: Parallel lines. An angle. A triangle. A quadrangle. A
circle. A semicircle. A hemisphere. An inclined plane.]

After Mary had exercised her boys and girls in this way, until she
thought they knew all the figures she had drawn, she told them to say
the multiplication table in concert. Ellen Raby called this class the
concert class, and they liked to be in a class altogether.

Lily said she would like black board exercises every day; but Mary was
wiser than her little scholar, and she knew that Lily would get very
tired of doing the same thing every day. Mary liked her scholars to be
“always busy, never weary,” and she gave them different lessons for each
day.

Now it was recess time. And what do my little readers think Mary’s
scholars did during recess time, when it rained so fast that they could
not go out of doors to play? They played in the school-room. They played
Blindman Buff and “Poor Pussey wants a corner,” and “Hunt the Slipper.”
Mary lent them her shoe to play with, and when they were tired of
playing Hunt the Slipper, and Puss in the Corner, they gave Mary her
shoe again, and asked her if they might play Blindman Buff. She said
they might, but not in the school-room. She told them to go into the
little room adjoining the school-room, where Blindman Buff, whoever he
might happen to be, could not do any mischief. There was no ink nor
desks in the little room, and he could walk or run about there without
danger of hurting himself. They begged Mary to go with them, and she
said she would. They all ran off, singing,

                          Here we go
                            All together,
                          We have fun
                            In rainy weather.

                          One, two, three,
                            Four, and away,
                          We are glad
                            Of a rainy day!

Mary took her handkerchief and asked, who would be Blindman Buff first.
They all wanted to be blindfolded first; and Mary said, “What shall I do
to please all my little scholars? You cannot all be Blindman Buff at
once; so I will take the oldest first.” Charles Linn was the oldest
scholar; and after Mary had bound her handkerchief over his eyes, he
could not see any thing at all. He put out his hands, and felt about the
room, and at last he caught little Ellen Raby. Ellen was so much
delighted, and laughed so merrily to see how queer Charles looked, that
he knew by the sound of her voice where to find her. Carry Deacon came
up to Mary and looked as if she wanted to say something to her, and as
if she did not like to say it. Then Mary took Carry by the hand, and she
said,

“Do you want to talk to me, Carry?”

Carry said, “Yes, but not before anybody. Let us go back into the
school-room.” Mary went with Carry into the school-room while the
scholars were at play, and she said, “Now, Carry dear, come and tell me
all about your getting to school so late this morning.”

    _Carry._  “I stopped to see Mike Terry’s kittens.”

    _Mary._   “How did you know about the kittens?”

[Illustration:

  ~Second Day.~
  “I stopped to see Mike Terry’s Kittens.” p. 28.
]

    _Carry._  “When I was going past neighbour Terry’s, Mike came out,
  and he had a porringer of milk, and he was carrying it with both his
  hands for fear it would spill.”

    _Mary._   “Well, Carry, did you stop and ask Mike what he had in
  the porringer?”

    _Carry._  “Yes! Mike said it was milk for the cat. He said, the
  old cat had some kittens in the night, and he was going to feed
  her.”

    _Mary._   “What else did Mike say?”

    _Carry._  “He said the kittens were down in the barn, and the old
  cat took hold of the kittens by their necks, with her mouth. Mike
  asked me to come and see them.”

    _Mary._   “Did you tell Mike you were on your way to school, and
  had not leave to stop?”

    _Carry._  “I only told him I was going to school, I did not tell
  him about leave to stop.”

    _Mary._   “What did Mike say to that?”

    _Carry._  “He said he did not like to go to school. The master was
  cross. He would rather stay at home and play; and then I went with
  him to see the kittens. One was black, and one had white spots on
  its tail, and one was yellow, just like the old cat, only it was a
  kitten. The kittens were little bits of things. They stayed close
  together. They climbed over one another’s backs and heads. Mike said
  that did not hurt them at all. It was the way they kept one another
  warm.”

    _Mary._   “How long did you stay, Carry?”

    _Carry._  “I don’t know, but not a great while. The kittens were
  so pretty, I liked to look at them. I and Mike waited to see if the
  big cat would take them up by the neck, with her mouth. Mike said it
  looked as if she would eat them up.”

    _Mary._   “How did you feel, while you were there?”

    _Carry._  “I felt most about the kittens, they were such little
  dear tiny things. I wanted to take them up, and kiss them, but Mike
  said if I did, the old cat would scratch me.”

    _Mary._   “Did you think about school?”

    _Carry._  “Yes. When I had done looking at the kittens, I did. I
  told Mike, now, I must go, I am afraid it is late. Mike said, if he
  was me, he would not go to school at all. It was pleasant to stay at
  home and play. I told Mike we had a pleasant time at our school,
  rainy days as well as sunny days, and I liked to go all days. Then
  Mike showed me a new way to school. He said it was nearer than to go
  by the road. I got lost, and did not know where I was. I cried, and
  wished I had not gone with Mike.”

    _Mary._   “I thought you told me your umbrella was broken: how was
  it done, Carry?”

    _Carry._  “I forgot to put it away the last time it rained, and it
  was in the kitchen, and somebody broke it.”

    _Mary._   “How did you get to school at last?”

    _Carry._  “I walked and walked, and I ran some of the way, and I
  called ‘Mother,’ and ‘Mary.’ I was afraid. When I walked a little
  farther, I got to the play-woods, and then I saw the tool-house
  where we keep our playthings. And then I was glad, and I knew I was
  almost here.”

    _Mary._   “Does my little Carry think she has suffered enough to
  make her remember that she should not stop by the way coming to
  school? You know, Carry, the rule is, that the scholars must not
  stop on their way to school, nor when they are returning, without
  leave from their parents, or from me.”

    _Carry._  “I forgot that.”

Carry was a very affectionate little girl, and she put her arms round
Mary’s neck, and said, “Will you kiss me now, Mary, and forgive me?”

Mary kissed Carry, and said, “I will forgive you, dear, but do you not
know that when we do wrong, even in a very little thing, we must ask our
Heavenly Father to forgive us? Whenever you do wrong, a stain is left
upon your soul—upon that part of you which lives for ever and ever.
God’s good spirit within you makes you sensible of this stain; makes you
feel that all is not right with you; and then you are unhappy,
uncomfortable; and you cannot feel happy again until the stain is taken
away. I do not see it. I cannot take it away: but God sees it, and can
take it away. And if you are really sorry and ask Him, He will take it
away, and make you happy again. I will give you a little prayer to
learn; and before you lie down in your bed to-night, think over what you
have been doing to-day. You must try to ask your Heavenly Father’s
forgiveness before you go to sleep, and then you can repeat these
verses.”

“Will you say the little prayer to me, Mary?”

“Yes.”

                   Heavenly Father! I am little,
                     And I often go astray;
                   Wilt Thou love me, and forgive me,
                     When I do not keep thy way?

                   I have read about Thy mercy,
                     In the Holy Bible shown;
                   Wilt Thou bring me to my Saviour,
                     For I cannot come alone?

                   He once took up little children,
                     And they leaned upon His arm,
                   And I want Him to take me up,
                     So that I’ll be safe from harm.

Then Mary lent Carry the little book which had the prayer in it, and she
told her she might take it home with her.

“There is one thing more, I wish to say to you, Carry. I wish you to try
to think about what you are told to do. What shall I do to make my
little Carry remember?”

    _Carry._  “Don’t call me careless Carry, will you?”

    _Mary._   “Does any one call you so?”

    _Carry._  “Yes! And I do not like to be called careless Carry.”

    _Mary._   “Suppose you try not to deserve the name.”

    _Carry._  “How shall I try, Mary?”

    _Mary._   “I will help you.”

    _Carry._  “Shall we begin now?”

    _Mary._   “Yes. All the scholars, except you, put away their books
  and slates, before they went out to play, and yours are all out of
  place. Go, now, and put them neatly into your desk.”

Carry ran away to do as Mary told her. And then Mary rang the bell for
school.

Now it was reading time. Harry Linn, and Lily Forester, and Ellen Raby,
were in a class by themselves. They were just learning to read. Ellen
Raby was older than Harry and Lily, but she did not know enough to be in
the first class.

After all the scholars had done reading, they took their slates to do
sums, and make figures. Mary showed those who could cipher, how to do
their sums, and she set lines of figures for the little ones. Mary made
pens, and set copies in the copy books for afternoon.

One of the copies was,

[Illustration: Handwritten: Mary loves her scholars.]

Another copy was,

[Illustration: Handwritten: They are good children.]

Another copy was,

[Illustration: Handwritten: They are sorry when they do wrong.]

When morning school was done, Mary had all the books and the slates
neatly put into their places. Carry Deacon came running up to Mary to
tell her that she had put every thing into her desk that belonged there,
and that the lid would shut down closely. Mary went to Carry’s desk to
look into it, and she found that the things were not all tumbled in,
helter-skelter, but that each book was in its right place; and she said
Carry was a good little girl, because she was trying to improve.

Carry looked very much pleased, when Mary praised her. And she said, “I
do love you, Mary, you are so kind to me. You never call me careless
Carry.”

The boys and girls amused themselves as they liked until dinner-time.

My little readers will remember, that they had all brought their dinner
to school, because it was a rainy day. They will remember too, that Mary
lived with Harry Linn’s father and mother. Her basket was quite a large
one, with dinner enough in it for four: Charles and Lucy and Harry Linn
and Mary.

When it was dinner-time, Mary had the napkins taken out of each basket,
and she spread them all upon a little table which stood in the corner of
the school-room, and these served for a table-cloth. Then she took out
of every basket all that was in it. There was bread and butter and cold
meat and biscuit and apple pies. Mary had brought a large pie, and some
of the scholars had brought small pies. Mary placed the large pie in the
centre of the table, and the little pies around it. Lily Forester’s
patty-pan pie, with her name on it, was the least of all. Lily capered
around the table, and was wild with delight. Ellen Raby said the large
pie was the mother-pie and the little pies were the children.

Charles Linn took the pitcher and brought some fresh water from the
spring, and Mary put the little mug which was in the wash-room, on the
table, for a drinking cup. When the table was arranged, Mary allowed
Ellen Raby to ring the bell. She rang the bell very loud, and she ran
about, saying to every one, “Please to come to dinner.”

Before they began to eat, they sat in silence[A] for a little while; and
then Mary asked her scholars, if they knew why we sit in silence before
we partake of our meals? Charles Linn said, “We do it that we may think
of our Heavenly Father, before we eat our food, because He gives it to
us.” “Yes,” said Mary, “He gives us every good thing that we have, and
we should try, when we receive his gifts, to ask Him to give us grateful
hearts for them. We cannot give ourselves kind parents and pleasant
homes and health, nor abilities to provide food and raiment. God must
give them to us or we must go without them.

“Shall I repeat to my little scholars some verses which my mother taught
me to say when I was about as old as Lily Forester?”

They all said, “Yes, oh do, before we eat our dinner.” And Mary
repeated:

                 When my little daughter comes
                   To the board with plenty spread,
                 She should try to think of Him,
                   By whose bounty she is fed.

                 From our Heavenly Father’s hand
                   Come our blessings, health and food,
                 Parents, homes, and all we have,
                   All we know and think of good.

                 Then, my darling, try to say
                   To thyself a little prayer;
                 Ask God for a grateful heart
                   At thy meals, and everywhere.

Mary talked with her scholars while they ate their dinner; and after
dinner was over, each scholar put the plates and other things that
belonged to her into her own basket. There was not much left, for they
were all very hungry. Then they went into the wash-room, one at a time,
and washed their hands and faces. Mary required her scholars to eat
slowly and chew their food well; and eating their dinner and washing and
putting their baskets away, had occupied so much time, that now it was
almost two o’clock, and school in the afternoon commenced at two
o’clock. Mary had no recess during the afternoon on rainy days, and she
closed her school at four o’clock. She said it was not healthful to
remain longer than that time in a close room. It had rained so fast all
day that the scholars could not go out to take the air.

                  *       *       *       *       *

When Mary said it was school-time, Charles Linn called out, “Now for
school.” “Now for school.” “May I ring the bell?” Mary told him he
might. And he rang the bell.

Carry Deacon did not come when the bell was rung, nor Ellen Raby, nor
Harry Linn, nor Lily Forester. Mary asked Charles to go and look for
them, and he found them in the wash-room. They had taken all the
dinner-baskets out of the closet, and they were playing “Go to market
and sell apples.” Carry Deacon had a basket on her head, and Ellen Raby
had one on her arm, and Harry Linn had tied a string to their large
basket, and he and Lily Forester were pulling it along. They pretended
the basket was a cart, and that it had apples in it, and that Harry was
Sam the driver, and Lily was Sam’s wife, and she was going to market
with him to measure out the apples in a half-peck measure.

They were all in high glee, and Carry Deacon said, “Isn’t it nice on
rainy days?”

Charles Linn told them it was school-time. They asked Charles to help
them put the baskets away. Charles was a kind little boy, and he helped
them, and he untied the string which Harry had put to the large basket,
and then they all came into school.

When the scholars were in their seats, Mary said, “Which of my little
boys and girls have their Definitions ready?”

The little ones did not learn definitions, but the larger ones did, and
they had been studying their lessons between schools. After Mary had
heard the definition-class, she called the little ones, and asked them
if they remembered what lesson they said on the second day of the week.
Carry Deacon said, “Oh, yes, this is question-afternoon.” Mary said,
“That is true, Carry, and I am glad to find you remember it.”

These are some of the questions which Mary asked her little scholars.

                      How many hands have you?
                      How many feet have you?
                      How many fingers?
                      How many thumbs?
                      How many toes on each foot?
                      How many on both feet?
                      Which is your right hand?
                      Which is your left hand?
                      How many senses have you?
                      What are your senses called?
                      What do you taste with?
                      What do you smell with?
                      What do you hear with?
                      What do you handle with?
                      What do you see with?

Now, my little readers, suppose you try to answer these questions. Your
kind mothers, or your older brother or sister, will tell you if you
answer them correctly. Mary’s little scholars missed some, but they
answered most of them correctly.

When they had done answering questions, Mary told them they might go to
their seats and write on their slates. Their copies were already set.

Instead of having a recess, Mary read to her scholars a pretty story. It
was a true story about a good muffin-man.

[Illustration:

  ~Second Day.~
  The good muffin-man. p. 49.
]


                     STORY OF THE GOOD MUFFIN-MAN.

There was once a muffin-man who carried muffins about the streets of a
large city to sell. He carried them in two square baskets, on his
shoulders. In the street where he served the people with muffins, a poor
sailor’s wife lived. She was sick, and she could not work, and she had
not any body to give her money, for her husband was a sailor, and he was
out at sea in a great ship. She had a young child, and she was so poor
that she had not even enough money to buy bread. The good muffin-man
stopped every day and gave her some muffins out of one of his baskets to
eat. Whenever the muffin-man stopped, the little child would run away
from her mother to come to him, because she was so glad to see him.

Mary’s scholars thought the muffin-man was very good and kind. There was
a picture over the story, and Mary showed them the picture. After they
had talked about the poor sailor’s wife, and the little child, and the
muffin-man, Carry Deacon asked, “Why the people did not make muffins at
home?” Mary told her, “That in large cities, such as Boston, New York
and Philadelphia, the people who lived there bought many things, which
the country people made at home. They bought their milk and their butter
and their meat and their eggs, because the houses were built up closely
together, and there was not room enough, in towns, to keep cows and pigs
and chickens. Mary asked Carry if she had never seen people carrying
milk and bread and fruit about, when she was in Philadelphia.” Carry
said, “Yes, she had seen a man carrying a bucket with bright hoops
around it; and her aunt, at whose house she stayed, told her the bucket
had milk in it.” And Carry said, “She saw a woman carrying oranges in a
basket, and the woman knocked at people’s doors, and asked them to buy
her oranges.”

[Illustration:

  ~Second Day.~
  The fruit woman on her way to town p. 51.
]

Mary went around among her scholars, while they were writing, to see
that they held their pens and pencils properly. She rubbed out some of
Lily Forester’s straight marks and round o’s, because her strokes were
crooked and her o’s were not well formed, and Lily said she would try
again.

While the scholars were writing, Mary looked over the Bible to select a
chapter to read at the close of the school.

Carry Deacon came up to Mary and whispered to her, to please to read
about the beautiful garden where Adam and Eve lived a great while ago
and talked with our Heavenly Father.

When school was done, Mary called her little boys and girls to come and
sit around her while she read to them the Bible. She read to them about
God creating the world; and how he made the heavens, and the bright
stars, and the earth and all the people that live on it, and the
flowers, and the birds and beasts, and every thing that has life. And
then she read to them about Adam, the first man, and Eve, the first
woman, and about the beautiful garden, called the garden of Eden, where
they lived, and where they were very happy, until they were disobedient;
and because they were disobedient they had to go out of the beautiful
garden of Eden.

“Is God, who made every thing, our Heavenly Father, Mary?” said Harry
Linn.

“Yes, Harry.”

“Did God send Adam and Eve out of the beautiful garden because they were
disobedient?” asked Carry Deacon.

“Yes,” said Mary.

“But, Mary, I thought you said our Heavenly Father loved us, and was
kind to us. I do not think it was kind to send poor Adam and Eve away.
Why did not God forgive them for being disobedient, as you did me this
morning?”

“They did not ask God to forgive them,” Mary said; “And you know, Carry,
that when we have done wrong, we cannot be forgiven, until we are sorry
that we have done wrong, and sincerely ask our Heavenly Father to
forgive us.”

“Did Adam and Eve _know_ they were to be sent away, if they were
naughty?” asked Carry.

Eddy Forester said, “Do you not remember, Carry, Mary read to us, that
God showed Adam and Eve one tree in the garden, and told them not to
touch it? and he told them if they ate the fruit on that tree, they
should surely die.”

“Oh, yes,” Carry said, “I remember now,” and the scholars all said they
remembered that.

“Well,” Mary said, “you know GOD IS TRUE. He always keeps his word. We
must believe every word of God; but if God should not do what he said He
would do, we could not believe Him. He said he would punish Adam and
Eve, if they ate the fruit which he told them not to touch, and if he
had not punished them, how could we believe every word God had spoken?”

Carry said, “Does God love us any more, when He punishes us, Mary?”

“Yes,” Mary said, “He punishes us sometimes when we do wrong, because He
loves us and wants to make us love and obey Him. You know, Carry, your
mother sends you away from her, when you are naughty, to punish you; and
she does it because she wants to make you a good, obedient little girl;
and do you not think your mother loves you?”

“Oh, yes,” Carry said; “my mother says she loves me, and I know she
does.”

Little Ellen Raby was leaning against Mary; she was very tired. Harry
and Lily had slipped off from the bench where they were sitting, and
they were lying on the floor, looking up into Mary’s face while she was
talking.

Then Mary said, “My little scholars are weary, they have been at school
long enough.”

The bigger boys and girls begged Mary to talk to them some more about
Adam and Eve. They said they were not weary. Charles Linn said he would
hold Ellen Raby on his lap, while Harry and Lily rested on the floor.
But Mary looked at her watch, and she said, “We will not talk any more
now. It is after four o’clock. It is time for us all to go home. It does
not rain much now, and we can go home without getting very wet.”

Then Mary put away the Bible, and she went and brought Carry Deacon’s
shoes and stockings to her.

“Now Carry, dear,” Mary said, “go and take off the borrowed shoes and
stockings, and put on your own. Yours are quite dry.”

Carry did as she was bidden, and then Mary took the shoes and stockings
which Carry left off, and put them into her basket; for my little
readers will remember they belonged to Lucy Linn, and we must never
forget to return carefully and in good season any thing that we borrow.
Mary took care that each scholar had the right umbrella and the right
dinner-basket, and then she kissed them all, and they went home.

Charles Linn said he did not care for a little rain, and he took the
large basket and ran home. He left the umbrella for Mary and his little
brother Harry, and his sister Lucy, and Mary and Lucy and Harry walked
home together.

[Illustration: THE END]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Footnote A:

  This incident contains a historical fact. In many parts of
  Pennsylvania, which were originally settled by members of the Society
  of Friends, some of their social customs are still adhered to, even by
  families not of their sect, and one of these customs is to observe a
  short season of silent supplication before meals.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

        =TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE:=

          Italics, bold letters, blackletter font and small
            capitals have been converted to _ = ~ and
            ALL CAPS respectively.

          Perceived typos have been silently corrected.

          Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

          Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A SECOND DAY IN MARY CARROW'S SCHOOL ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


