The Project Gutenberg eBook of The silver net
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The silver net
        Poems

Author: Louis Vintras

Release date: October 25, 2025 [eBook #77120]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Unicorn, 1903

Credits: Aaron Adrignola, Terry Jeffress, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SILVER NET ***

                   This ebook was created in honor of
              Distributed Proofreaders’ 25th Anniversary.




THE SILVER NET




  To
  HILDA.




    _Hope is a net of silver thread
      Cast in the swirling stream of life,
    Where prey with scales of gold and red
      Is ever hidden, ever rife;
    Put oft upon the rocky bed,
      The net is rended in the strife._

    _Thus ’tis we often toil in vain,
      Yet never weary of our dream;
    And looking fondly in the stream,
      We mend our net and try again._




 THE SILVER NET

 POEMS BY LOUIS VINTRAS


 [Illustration]


 LONDON · AT THE UNICORN
 VII CECIL COURT · MCMIII




CONTENTS.


                                             PAGE

     I. VISION                                  1

    II. ALONE                                   2

   III. BETROTHAL                               4

    IV. ‘... AND THERE WAS NO MORE SEA’         5

     V. ASPIRATIONS                             6

    VI. IN THE HEART OF A ROSE                  8

   VII. A STRANGER                              9

  VIII. EVOLUTION                              11

    IX. NOCTURNE                               12

     X. THE CITY OF ANGUISH                    13

    XI. MAGDALENE                              14

   XII. FABLE                                  15

  XIII. CONFESSION                             18

   XIV. THE MYSTIC GARDEN                      19

    XV. THE RING                               22

   XVI. ISHTAR                                 23

  XVII. ILLUSION                               25

 XVIII. THE IDOL                               26

   XIX. TINTAGEL                               27

    XX. BUT IN HER EYES THERE IS NO LIGHT      29

   XXI. ROSES TWO                              30

  XXII. AT YOUR FEET                           36

 XXIII. PROPOSAL                               37

  XXIV. A RIVER IMPRESSION                     38

   XXV. TRIUMPH                                39

  XXVI. VIOLETS                                41

 XXVII. EROTEME                                42

XXVIII. THE EYE                                43

  XXIX. SHADOWS                                46

   XXX. THE PALACE OF DESIRES                  47

  XXXI. LINEAGE                                50

 XXXII. THE EARTH REGAINED                     51

XXXIII. ENVOI                                  52




VISION


    Great ships, with spreading wings of dazzling white,
    I see for ever passing in the night,
        Bearing away dead souls
    Of men and women, whom I meet each day
        Still living in the clay.




ALONE


    Evening made a violet darkness in the thickness of the wood,
            All was silent, all was still;
    And the man of many pleasures felt upon him steal a mood
            That was stronger than his will.
    In the sky each glowing star assumed a different coloured flame,
            But the flames they gave no light.
    He was cold at heart and weary and a numbing sense of shame
            Made him fearful of the night.
    Though alone, he felt that hidden in the bushes and the trees
            Many eyes were watching him.
    When he tried to move he wavered, and he fell upon his knees,
            And his sight with tears was dim.
    While he knelt, he knew not how long, in the grass a blue-bell
      glowed,
            Glowed with light amid the dew.
    As he watched with straining eyes, from which the tears no longer
      flowed,
            The blue flower grew and grew;
    Vaguely human in its outline, half a flower, half a child,
            High now as his kneeling self,
    And the flower-child bent to him with an impulse strange and wild,
            And he felt the little elf
    Kiss his lips and heard it softly, softly call him by his name,
            In a voice unearthly, sad.
    ‘I’m your child and I was born of your first love and born in shame;
            I am dead and _she_ is mad.’
    Something like a shudder shook the stately trees, the plants, the
      weeds,
            As the man rose up again--
    In the mystery of this wood the leaves, the blossoms were the deeds,
            Living deeds of mortal men.
    Pale, he seized the fancy-creature savagely, and hurled it down,
            Trampled it into the earth.
    Then he heard a woman sobbing and the rustle of a gown....
            And he laughed--just sound, no mirth.




BETROTHAL


    The steamer glided like a car of silver o’er the sea;
    Above the dying worlds revolved their dark and crumbling wrecks,
    Dead as the groping shadows of our shipmates on the decks--
            All dead save you and me.

    And yet amid this lie two fates were sealed, two souls set free;
    Hands met and lips touched lips in rapturous spite of death and
      night,
    And lo! at once each ghost, each world was touched with life and
      light,
            Kindled by you and me.




‘AND THERE WAS NO MORE SEA’

_Revelation_, xxi. 1.


    The white-crested wave swirls by in the night
        With many a shriek and a moan!
    ’Tis the soul of a thief in its whirlpool plight--
        Not water, but flesh and bone.

    And this soul is torn and rent by the reef,
        And the frantic waves they fight
    For the milk-white blood this soul of a thief
        Sheds on the rocks each night.

    And sinners laugh at the pangs and doles
        Foretold in Holy Writ,
    But the beautiful waves are dead men’s souls
        And the sea is the bottomless pit.




ASPIRATIONS


    O human dreams unrealisable!
    Fire-tinged, gemmated, luring, damning dreams,
    Born but to shame the everlasting soul,
    Caged in its flesh-bound dungeon! Dreams of beauty,
    Growing to sinhood, fruits of seed-thoughts,
    Fallen in times primordial from the Godhead,
    Sweet with almighty innocence, divine
    With ignorance of nakedness and form,
    To germinate on life’s warm flesh and live
    In many purple passions! Such your dreams,
    O man, from Genesis to Revelation!
    The harlot and the harlequin are types
    Of your desires; her love is like his garb,
    Motley and false. Then sweep your pantheons
    Clean of these cobwebs. In the crystal disc,
    By which the hag Philosophy slumbers,
    Behold the play.

                      The nubile maiden seeks
    Mad stars that dance at night in lonely wells.
    A withered pope mumbling his benediction,
    _Urbi et orbi_, is absorbed the while
    With thoughts of Rome eternal, his by right,
    Now lost to God and him, because the king’s.
    And so the peaceful blessing wavers, dies
    E’er it has even drifted o’er the town--
    Alas! then, for the world.

                                A graceful girl,
    Royal with the pageantry of silk and ermine,
    Cursed with the name of Highness, brow ablaze
    With diamonds, cutting deep into the skin,
    Passes with dewy lips and swooning eyes,
    Some stalwart soldier of her bodyguard.

    The young man slowly dying in a ward,
    Sees, with the envious smile of bankrupt life,
    The pretty nurse who hovers round his bed
    With all life’s restless rustle in her skirts.

    O, who shall ever sing, O tortured man,
    The Babylons of your imagination,
    The castles built on clouds, the women loved
    In thought, the frantic thirst for beauteous life,
    Your wild despairs at every wreck, as Death
    Draws ever near to cool your red-hot soul
    For an eternity of peace!




IN THE HEART OF A ROSE


    As I strolled through the close, in the heart of a rose,
    I espied of a woman the figure divine,
    In a rose, ruby stained, as a chalice with wine.

    And the opening rose did her beauty disclose;
    Her red lips she upraised to my lips, wove her arms
    Round my neck, bound me fast with her spells and her charms.

    And this woman I chose from the heart of the rose,
    Chose to share all my dreamland of love and of power,
    Stole my soul and imprisoned my soul in the flower.




A STRANGER


    ‘Yes, I was Desdemona yesterday,’
    She said to me a-sudden as we stood beside
    An antique vase of porphyry,
    Gazing upon the swaying crowd below.
    ‘Arms nervous, eastern eyes which flashed fierce fires,
    The coruscation of estival nights
    Glowing amid the all-encircling dark,
    These made my joy;
    The coiling hatred of the devil-snake,
    My pain.
    I saw the twitching of Othello’s hands,
    And died at twenty past eleven.
    To-morrow, in Verona, at a mask,
    I meet love’s arch-type glorified beyond
    Mere human manhood to Apollo’s self;
    And I, this magnificent lover’s love,
    Shall be a maiden in her fourteenth year
    For just three hours.
    ’Tis thus I live, and hate, and love, and die
    Night after night,
    In a superb and shameless prostitution,
    Leaving self in my wardrobe, a disguise
    Worn only in the daylight of the world
    To hide these many souls.
    Ghosts, born in gardens where the poet treads,
    Resolve themselves into my being:
    Alone, I merely stand in this death carnival
    Which you call life--a stranger.’




EVOLUTION


    She rests among the roses red and gay,
    Wrapt in the golden mantle of her hair,
    While in her eyes--two mirrors blue and fair--
    All girlhood’s winsome charms and wonders play.
    Love to the shimmering sunbeams spreads his wings,
    And speeding through the skies with laughing eyes,
    Comes to the rosy bower where beauty sighs,
    Presses his lips upon her lips and sings.

    O symbol towering o’er our downward strife,
    In Heaven born, like Heaven immutable,
    Gift of the dreamy spheres to grosser earth,
    Wherein is shadowed forth to-morrow’s birth,
    The unknown made to man attainable--
    Love opening with a kiss the book of life!




NOCTURNE


    The big, cold moon, and the red glow-lights by the lines,
    The panting steam, and the luggage cars
    Wending their fugue-like course through a wood of pines,
    And around the immutable stars....




THE CITY OF ANGUISH


    About the city clouds eternal hang
    And pallid shadows wander through the mist,
    Who to the moaning tempest eager list.
    The night is eerie with the mournful clang
    Of bells funereal. There is no name
    Written upon this city’s crumbling walls,
    And those who live within its cheerless halls
    Are forlorn lovers of the goddess Fame.

    Tread gently, stranger, in this hallowed place,
    And if among the crowd perchance you meet
    Some long-forgotten and once-cherished face,
    Say not a word, extend no hand to greet
    Your friend, grant him at least oblivion’s grace,
    For pity’s sake be silent and retreat.




MAGDALENE


    Now she lay on the white marble flags, and her hair
    Made a soft cloud of gold, through the cloud here and there
    Peeped the warm, rosy skin. And her eyes were as dreams
    Dreamt in youth by a god, while her kiss-craving lips,
    Red with love, haunted men. In her pallid despair
    She had come from her palace, she knelt at my feet
    And her tears as they fell burnt my flesh. Then she spoke--
    Whispered sins music made like a nun’s clinking beads.
    Magdalene, Magdalene, glowing shame of the world!
    Just a touch of my lips on her brow crimson tinged,
    And her head like a child’s lay at rest on my breast.
    Lullaby, Magdalene, yours my kiss and my song.




FABLE


    They met beside a babbling stream,
        Old Death, young Love;
    Dawn threw its ochre-tinted gleam
        Through the leaves above.
    ‘Father, you look as sad as life,’
        Said Love to Death.
    ‘Boy, keep your taunts for human strife,
        Nor waste your breath.’
    He dipped his scythe in the crystal tide,
        Shook off the spray:
    ‘If youth for work has too much pride,
        Go on your way.’
    Love bit the end of a blade of grass
        And bending low:
    ‘To-day you meet a pretty lass,
        Dear Death, I trow.’
    The Mower chuckled: ‘She is fair,
        Fair as a flower.
    I shall be rich with golden hair
        Before an hour.’
    ‘Some girl whose lot it was to pine,
        Drowned in a pool,
    Leaving her pale-faced babe to whine
        And grow ... a fool.’
    ‘No forlorn girl, no treacherous smiles
        Of a passing churl;
    Her mother baffled all your wiles
        And kept the girl,
    Stainless for me to bear above
        In the month of May,’
    Made answer Death to the stripling Love
        In the dawn of day.
    ‘Each mortal mother and mortal Eve
        They play our game,
    And we might sleep from morn till eve
        ’Twould be the same.
    Your tale, good sir, is very sad
        But hardly new.’
    Old Death sat down beside the lad:
        ‘The tale is true,
    The house is near, around the door
        Vine branches creep....’
    But ere the Wanderer could say more
        He fell asleep.
    So now the saucy imp was blithe;
        Holding his breath,
    The sable cloak and glittering scythe
        He took from Death
    And laugh gaily skipped away,
        Upon his quest.
    He pushed the door with vine leaves gay,
        The ghostly guest;
    The mother led him to the room
        With curtains blue,
    Where the girl was waiting for her doom
        And left the two.
    He sat him down beside the lass
        And took her hand,
    She smiled and thought that in the glass
        Would stop the sand.
    But he kissed her lips, the pretty lad,
        He kissed her eyes....
    When came the Mower grim and sad
        To claim his prize--
    Having at last from his trance awoke--
        He found instead
    His scythe wrapt in his sable cloak
        On the silken bed.




CONFESSION


    ‘I love,’ she said, ‘a child of Eve, I love to love;
    Loving, beloved, my heart content, I soar above
    All other hopes in life and all the fears of death.

    ‘I love, my beauty and my innocence I give
    To my beloved, and laugh, and am content to live,
    And sing my passion with the nightingales and thrushes.

    ‘I love, I love. Have all your human dogmas power
    Closer to bind my thoughts to him! God gave the flower
    Its perfume, and the bird its song, and me my love.’




THE MYSTIC GARDEN


    Many coloured suns diffused their gorgeous rainbows through the air
            O’er a garden strange and fair,
    Trees and flowers on every side extended far and far away,
            Like vast armies in array.
    As I walked within this garden where the earth was mixed with bone,
            My foot stumbled o’er a stone
    And the stone in twain was cloven, and a lurid flame was kindled,
            Which arising slowly mingled
    With the suns which were revolving in the glory of their noon,
            Through the skies of burning June.
    On I strolled and saw a lily which was whiter than the snow;
            Kissed the lily bending low.
    As my lips devoutly touched it, lo! it vanished into space;
            Rose a woman’s haloed face,
    Where the lily had been basking in the multicoloured day--
            Just a vision gold and grey--
    And I knew it was the Virgin by the pity in her eyes,
            Azure-tinted from the skies.
    While I gazed upon the visage, while I wondered at its pain,
            ’Twas a flower once again.
    Then I turned me from the lily to a fragrant brier tree,
            Bloom-bespattered, fair to see,
    Culled a rose, and in its place beheld the thorn-crowned Saviour’s
      head,
            The sad brow bedewed with red,
    With the lips so kind and pallid, parted in their constant prayer.
            Then upon the perfumed air
    Played his voice: ‘When death, the angel, touches human clay, as you
            Touched the rose, then God anew,
    Free, arises from the dust of mortal man, as I arose
            From the humble brier rose,
    As my Mother from the lily, as the Spirit from the stone,
            The first woman from the bone.’
    And the vision slowly faded and I fell upon my knees
            ’Mid the flowers and the trees,
    Crossed my hands and bent my forehead, doing reverence all the day
            To the God within my clay.




THE RING


    But a tiny ring of gold,
        Just a link;
    Wear it and your heart is sold,
        Strange to think.

    ’Till it glitters on your hand
        You are free....
    Shall I cast it on the sand,
        In the sea?

    Which was Judas’ greater sin,
        Kiss or gold?
    Love must end where sales begin,
        I am told.

    We will have no ring, no kiss
        To deceive--
    When you hear the serpent hiss,
        Think of Eve.




ISHTAR


    The vanity of Art rebuking Nature,
    Such she,
    Whose whirlpool eyes, where eddying mysteries seethe and clash,
    And false red lips
    Make loveliness sublime of human clay.
    And men forget the altar and their vows
    When they have felt the glamour of her gaze,
    Or held her hand, or touched her lips.

    Ah! listen to the treacherous music, hear
    Her voice,
    Awakening slumbering echoes in the soul’s abyss,
    Her silver song
    As she unclasps her girdle with a smile;
    And having reaped the evil, scarcely leaves
    Enough of whiteness or of righteousness
    To robe a bishop or a pope.

    Her laugh has rocked wild cities to their ruin.
    The Gods,
    When banished from their temples, left this parting bane,
    This blue-eyed sin,
    This Ishtar--pallid Eponym of lust--
    That when we meet her in our squares and streets,
    Bartering her beauty, we may yet recall
    The graven images of Babylon.




ILLUSION


    The friends throw rice and confetti, wave handkerchiefs, and hail
    Love’s triumph, as away the well-appointed brougham hies:
    The husband is a man of wealth, and old, and sad, and pale;
    The youthful bride has full red lips and mocking violet eyes.




THE IDOL


    I am an idol made of bronze
    And sit within a silver shrine,
    Attended by a shaven bonze,
    In a temple made of serpentine.

    I sit thus through the burning day,
    Through nights of gold-tipped indigo,
    While at my feet the people pray
    And lithesome virgins come and go.

    But not for me their sidelong glance,
    As reverently they wave their hands,
    For watching their religious dance
    A youthful, blue-eyed shepherd stands.

    And I, the idol wrought in bronze,
    To be that youth of low degree,
    Would sacrifice my shaven bonze,
    My temple, my eternity.




TINTAGEL


    I sat within Tintagel’s fabled walls,
    Amid the scattered stones of human works
    Crumbling upon the granite mount of God,
    As life upon the rock Eternity.
    And sitting there I heard two voices speak,
    The busy Ocean and the slothful Past;
    They whispered good King Arthur’s magic name,
    The Past was sad, the heartless Ocean laughed.
    Poor King, he lived for many happy years
    In his illusion, ’till all knowledge came
    Soul-stirring to this ruler of mankind,
    Who only knew the lying half of man.
    One blast of heavenly fire will kill the oak,
    One touch of knowledge broke this kingly heart;
    And so he donned his armour, took his sword
    Excalibur, and put his helmet on,
    And fought his way to Heaven, told his God
    How wicked men had ridden through his dream,
    Played with the devil at his Table-round,
    Their souls for stakes. He told of all their sins,
    The treacherous kiss of queenly Guinevere,
    Eyes swimming with the sight of Lancelot,
    How Merlin hoary with the frost of years,
    In Vivien’s lovely arms one day betrayed
    His life-long gathered lore of elfin charms,
    How Gawain lied, how knightly vows were broken
    As readily as lances in a tourney,
    And how these reckless Christian paladins
    Were thieves of honour, and the peerless dames
    All sin and loveliness.
                            And God was silent.




BUT IN HER EYES THERE IS NO LIGHT


    You see her in a ball-room, at the play,
    And in the street you meet her every day,
    Pale as the pearls she wears about her neck.

    Silent she sits at table by your side,
    Smiling she walks with you at eventide,
    Pale as the pearls she wears about her neck.

    She haunts your thoughts by day, your dreams by night....
    But in her wondering eyes there is no light,
    No more than in the pearls about her neck.




ROSES TWO

A DIALOGUE.

  JULIE, seventeen.
  AURIOL, sixteen.
  _Any place; any time._


  AURIOL

  Julie, I have a secret for your ear.

  JULIE

  What have you, little cousin, with such things
  As secrets?

  AURIOL

              Tut, a girl has many thoughts
  She knows are better kept....

  JULIE

                                Yet longs to tell.

  AURIOL

  Yes, pretty secrets have a double joy,
  The keeping and the breaking; and I think
  They’re like old Saxe, more valued when they’re broken.

  JULIE (_eagerly_)

  Yes, darling, I agree, so....

  AURIOL

                                It is hard,
  Awfully hard to break. The story runs
  Something like this: the giver was a man....

  JULIE

  Giver of what?

  AURIOL

                  Ah! do not interrupt;
  For if, at once, I told you what he gave
  Where would the story be. We’ll call him _he_--
  The abstract always has a secret charm--
  The other person ... she, you see, was I....
  That is....

  JULIE

              Do not explain.

  AURIOL

                              It might mislead.

  JULIE

  I like historians with imagination,
  And Truth when she has draped her nakedness.

  AURIOL

  It was last evening ... you remember, dear,
  How fine it was last evening, how the stars....

  JULIE

  Oh! never mind the stars.

  AURIOL

                            Poor little things!
  And yet they’re very troublesome, I grant,
  Prying upon this world of ours, at night,
  Just when good people want to say their prayers,
  Or gather dewy roses in the garden.

  JULIE

  Sweet, are not afraid to go alone
  Rose-gathering, when the fairies are abroad?

  AURIOL

  I did not say I was alone.

  JULIE

                              So he...?

  AURIOL

  Was there. (_Producing a rose which she has held concealed._)
            And see, Julie, the lovely rose
  He gave me; but I cannot quite remember
  His words. Ah! yes, he said the rose was love’s
  Dear symbol, and was made to be a gift
  From those who love to those they love, that I
  Was Beauty.... Do you catch his meaning, dear?

  JULIE

  I think the gentleman was quite explicit.

  AURIOL

  One cannot be too careful in such matters.

  JULIE

  Especially with a stranger ... and a man.

  AURIOL

  Lothario is not a stranger.

  JULIE

                                Ah!
  Lothario indeed. So it was he?

  AURIOL

  Julie, you should say ‘Mr.,’ if you please.

  JULIE

  Traitors their titles forfeit.

  AURIOL

                                  He is not
  A traitor. See how fair his rose has kept:
  And symbols die, they say, when vows are broken.

  JULIE (_taking a faded rose from her bosom_)

  True, this poor rose he gave me, three days since,
  Is withered.

  AURIOL

              Are you sure he gave it you?
  (_Sadly_)
  These roses look like sisters.

  JULIE

                                Merely cousins.
  Yes, he gave it to me. (_Sighs._) Three days is all
  A man’s love and a rose’s life can last.

  AURIOL

  But he swore that I was his only love.

  JULIE

  That’s what they always say.

  AURIOL

                                How do you know?

  JULIE

  My ... brother told me so.

  AURIOL

                              It is too bad....
  He stole a kiss.

  JULIE

                      That’s what they always do.

  AURIOL

  How do you know?

  JULIE

                      My brother told me so.

  AURIOL

  I think that men are knaves.

  JULIE

                                May be they are;
  Yet, Auriol, ’tis not perhaps their fault,
  For women keep the goodness to themselves.
  Come, we must not waste time on faded flowers,
  Nor lose our tempers on a faded heart.
  We’ll give these rosy petals to the wind,
              (_They throw the flowers away_)
  Lest it should take our thoughts and toy with them.
  When comes Lothario, with honeyed words,
  To claim his pledge of you or me, we’ll send
  The swain to parley with the mocking wind,
  Tell him that since he makes a sport of love,
  ’Tis wrong to run two hares at once. Now, sweet,
  Let’s go and listen to the piping birds
  And hear their music, being tired of words.




AT YOUR FEET


    A beggar sat on the Temple’s floor,
    Gazing around at the pious crowd
    That knelt before the cross of gold,
    On high amid the perfumed smoke;
    Scanning the marble pillars bright,
    The costly silks and glittering gems
    Upon the priesthood in the choir,
    And all the swaying silver lamps
    That carried stars of ruby fire:
    ‘Dreamers and pharisean fools,
    The heavens are only coloured void,
    Christ is living at your feet
    Beneath each beggar’s loathsome rags.’




PROPOSAL


    Yes, I’m your brother, not by birth
    Or any tie of earth:
    Your brother--well, we can’t undo the past,--
    Because kind mother Nature cast
    Two minds into one mould.
    Do not scorn, storm or scold,
    That you, a girl, and I, a man, should be
    Alike, I as it were your travesty,
    Of course is very strange.
    We’re the same work with here and there some trifling change:
    You are _de luxe_ on vellum, in the pride
    Of silver clasps; I, in rough hide,
    Bound anyhow.
    But since ’tis so, then let us bow,
    Accept the scheme,
    Live, sigh, laugh, hope and dream,
    Watch the play--
    Grim or gay--
    Side by side, you and I,
    ’Till we die.




A RIVER IMPRESSION.


    White sails, fair women and a silver swan,
    Boats gliding to the cadence of the oars,
    With here and there the echo of a song,
    And white-clad youths, and the majestic stream
    In all its state of golden-spangled motion,
    Deep as the silent mystery of a dream,
    For ever hastening, hastening to the ocean....




TRIUMPH


I.

    Just for a glance from her eyes as they smiled
            Mocking and wild,
    You would have left all your dreams, all your gold,
            You would have sold,
    Just for a word or a whisper, your soul
            Parted or whole.


II.

    Yet a poor price when the devil ... but hush!
            Think of the blush,
    Rosy as dawn and as shy, on her face....
            It was a race
    ’Twixt you and me: you, so young, nigh a child,
            I, man and wild.


III.

    Envy of you was my life for a spell,
            Now all is well;
    Thunders were useless which did not crush you;
            Wicked I grew;
    Till she was mine, till I lived in the skies
            Kissing her eyes.


IV.

    King of her love now I reign and I sing:
            Ne’er was a king
    Equal to me, when my head on her breast
            Softly I rest,
    Thinking of you, with a poisoned love-dart
            Deep in your heart.




VIOLETS


    Mignon, you love the myrtle and the rose,
    The lily, all the flowers which grace the close
    Of queenly Nature’s Eden; love them well,
    For there are mysteries more than man can tell
    Deep-hidden in their perfumed censers, dear,
    And music unknown to the human ear
    In their harmonious scales of varied hues--
    Crimson imperial and eastern blues,
    Emerald, and sheeny ors, and glittering steel--
    Still more for those who have a soul to feel
    The breath of love which is of beauty born.
    Bright flowers, bejewelled with the dew of morn,
    As you are sweet and pure; and God, I trow,
    Took of the new-born violet’s deepest glow
    To make the wonder of your tender eyes.




EROTEME


    We hold that love is a gift divine,
        Then why are kisses sold?
    O, is there then no earthly shrine
        But men defile with gold!

    Maiden, your sixteen springs were worth
        The jewels of a regal crown....
    Why did you hate your humble birth?
        Why sin for a silken gown?




THE EYE


I.

    When I was King Shalmaneser,
    And wielded the might of Assur
    In Nineveh,
    Over three thousand years ago,
    One day I sat upon my throne
    In the hall of the hundred granite bulls,
    Alone with my thoughts.
    Unnoticed by me, the waning day
    Deepened the shadows all around
    In the hall of the hundred granite bulls.
    It had come to pass that, the day before,
    I had caused a man to be done to death,
    Whose name was Chelech.
    ’Twas murder sure enough: for though
    I was the king, and his life by right
    Belonged to me to spare or take,
    Yet it was murder.
    For I had him strangled just because
    His wife loved him and I loved her.
    And now as I sat upon my throne
    In the hall of the hundred granite bulls,
    My gaze fell on my shield, which lay
    On the flags at my feet,
    My shield of toughened bullock hide,
    Covered with plates of beaten gold,
    Which softly glowed in the growing darkness.
    And there in the midst of the shield I saw
    A living human eye
    Looking at me,
    A veiled, unpleasant, sickly eye--
    The eye of Chelech.


II.

    Now yester evening, as I came
    Across the marshes, with my gun
    Under my arm, and a brace of ducks
    Slung over my shoulder,
    A strange thing happened.
    You know how dull the weather was:
    Clouds grey and saffron hung low down,
    Quickening the coming darkness.
    Being still some way from home,
    I sat me down, beside a pool,
    On the fallen trunk of a tree
    To fill my pipe.
    And sitting there it chanced I gazed
    Into the dark, deep water,
    And saw distinctly in the pool
    A living eye
    Looking at me,
    A veiled, unpleasant, sickly eye--
    The eye of Chelech:
    The man I’d caused to be done to death,
    Over three thousand years ago,
    When I was King Shalmaneser,
    And wielded the might of Assur
    In far-famed Nineveh, because
    His wife loved him and I loved her.




SHADOWS


    From the towering opal globes, in the street, the crude white
      light streams down
    On him, blue-eyed, on her, with hair like a flaming golden crown:
    His cigarette glows to a crimson star as he slowly paces,
    While, beside him, the woman smiling, shivers in her silks and
      laces.




THE PALACE OF DESIRES


    I entered, through a pillared portico,
    A stately hall with walls of burnished bronze,
    Where twenty different coloured lambent flames
    In separate, slender spirals hung aloft,
    Shedding a subdued, stellar brilliancy,
    Kind, as a discreet caress, to the eyes.
    Here maidens danced; while other maidens sang,
    Or stirred to sensuous music golden strings
    Caught, like a fairy web, ’tween ivory bows.
    The graceful cadence of their waving arms
    Invited me to follow them. Indeed
    ’Twas no unpleasant bidding. Thus I reached,
    With careless dalliance, a marble court
    Ablaze with violet fire; where flowers shone
    Like jewels, where perfume-laden fountains played
    And birds with human voices sang--each note
    A charm-born breath of passionate suggestion.
    I halted wondering, for this marvellous place
    Was paved with sharp-edged rubies. Yet the birds
    Gave forth such dulcet notes, the maidens smiled
    So winningly.... I bruised and cut my feet....
    Surely the promised joy must be supreme.
    Teeth set, hands clenched, I dragged my steps along,
    An icy sweat oozed out of every pore
    And clogged my hair; but still I struggled on.
    What goal, once won, was ever worth the winning
    That has not wrung the life-blood from our being.
    At last! At last! The farther end was reached.
    Then some mysterious force asunder drew
    Two heavy purple curtains. I beheld
    A lofty chamber white as virgin snow
    And bathed in soft and even whiter light.
    Here, on a silk-draped throne of sapphire, lay
    Two women naked. Ah! such loveliness
    Once to behold were worth a thousand pangs.
    Their faces and their figures visions were,
    Such as dear youth alone can conjure up
    In solitary secrecy of thought.
    Their eyes had hues unknown to human sight,
    The hues of everlasting rainbows spanning
    The far off interspaces of the worlds.
    And one was fair, with wondrous woven hair
    By godlike fingers spun from that first gleam
    Of perfect light, which shooting through the spheres,
    Rended of old the primal darkness, changed
    The cold revolving orbs to living worlds.
    But no less proudly did her sister bear
    The regal mantle of her sable tresses,
    Which fell about her perfect shoulders, o’er
    The curving, marble splendour of her hips.
    Again the guiding maidens urged me on,
    Who little wanted urging. Now the ground
    Was soothing in its softness. Had there been
    Iron flags red hot I would have ventured still:
    For _they_ had seen me, and awaiting lay
    Upon their throne in rosy nakedness.
    Their glorious eyes were heavy-veiled with love;
    Their lips were parted, waiting for my lips
    To close them with a kiss; their arms outstretched
    Offered the havens of their breasts to me.
    So I had won, not laboured all in vain.
    This was my minute wherein life is crowded.
    The wild triumphal ebbing of my blood
    Elated me. The magic of success
    Gave me back youth with all its strength and dreams.
    But then a something quivered ’neath my feet,
    So cold and loathsome that I started back
    And with misgiving eyes explored the ground.
    Ah! me, the soothing softness I had felt,
    After the torture of the jewelled pavement,
    Was made of human bodies interlaced....
    Dead men and women strong, and young, and white
    With the weird whiteness of this common grave!
    And then I knew I stood at last within
    The secret chamber of that fatal palace,
    Wrought of the mad desires of men, and paved
    With mad despairs, the dread Gehenna where
    The two arch-harlots Fame and Fortune dwell.




LINEAGE


I

    A tea-room girl, she carries a tray
          Through the day.
    Of consciousness there is in her face
          Hardly a trace,
    Beyond a droop of the lip or lift
    Of the brows in thanks for a generous gift.
    She is reserved, indifferent, plain;
    Yet with a something in her air
    Which causes you to look again
          At the wealth of her red-bronze hair.


II

    Alone in her darkened room at night
          Robed in white,
    Sitting for hours in a high-backed chair,
          Stately and fair,
    With flashing eyes and lips proudly curled,
    In thought she’s queen of a beautiful world,
    Projecting, through a mental prism,
    Her dream of power and pride of race--
    The outcome of some royal atavism,
          Impossible to trace.




THE EARTH REGAINED


    Down, deep down, the damned are delving,
    Delving at their prison walls,
    Ever delving;
    Till at times the walls give way
    And the shrieking, hissing spirits,
    Through some old volcanic fissure,
    Upwards scramble to the light,
    Free to walk the earth again,
    Loosing in their eager flight
    Hell’s liquid fire upon the world.




ENVOI


    Let it linger, linger in your ear,
    What I have said:
    Let it linger, linger with you, dear,
    When I am dead.


STRANGEWAYS & SONS, Tower Street, Cambridge Circus, W.C.




_Other Works by Louis Vintras._


IN BLACK AND GOLD.

Impressions in Verse.

Crown 8vo. 1_s._ (_Out of Print._)

_THE STAR._--‘Some twelve impressions in verse ... entitled “In Black
and Gold,” are remarkable for the cleverness of their subjects.... “At
the Music Hall,” in its vivid description of the “music-hall Circe”
who, mated to a lord, and gazing on the scene of her former triumphs,
hears “the old Bohemian voice of Sin” asking if her marriage is worth
one hour of such fame as was hers, is perhaps the best.’


PASSION ROYAL.

A Legendary Romance of Assyria.

Crown 8vo. 6_s._ London: CHAPMAN & HALL.

_THE ACADEMY._--‘The sumptuousness of Nineveh has touched the writer’s
style, and his book is rich in colour.’

_THE LITERARY WORLD._--‘The book is a well-conceived and dramatic
story.’

_THE SCOTSMAN._--‘The tale is really a romance of passion, the
archæological interest, carefully wrought up and stimulating as it is,
being always subordinate to the human. It is ably written.’

_THE PALL MALL GAZETTE._--‘Ninus, the priest-king, when the tale
begins, is laying siege to Bactria. The fall of the city, the orgies
of blood and lust, all the turmoil and din and wickedness of a great
Eastern camp in the hour of victory are well described.... Mr. Vintras
has written a very interesting romance, which certainly rewards
perusal.’


LADY FOLLY.

London: HURST & BLACKETT, Ltd.

Crown 8vo. 6_s._

_THE BOOKMAN._--‘But it is the villain of the piece, the beautiful and
strong-nerved Violet Merveil, who provides the real entertainment.
Whether fighting a bishop or fascinating him; whether bent on ruining
domestic happiness, or queening it on the stage, or humbly performing
her Roman devotions, she is always admirable and admirably attired.’

_THE DAILY TELEGRAPH._--‘Dr. Louis Vintras ... stands convicted of
being a subtle and genial humorist, endowed with a lively imagination,
a happy turn for repartee and epigram, and a remarkable faculty for
divining or detecting the hidden springs and more recondite motives
of hidden action. Dr. Vintras is, moreover, a master of elegant and
idiomatic English.... “Lady Folly” is destined to take rank among the
conspicuous literary successes of the current season.’

_THE ACADEMY._--‘With absorbed interest you follow his course, for the
style is brilliant and captivating.... Of smart portraiture and clever
dialogue “Lady Folly” is full.’

_THE SATURDAY REVIEW._--‘His descriptions are singularly striking.’


A PAGAN SOUL.

London: HURST & BLACKETT, Ltd.

Crown 8vo. 6_s._

_THE DAILY TELEGRAPH._--‘The book is eminently conversational, and
teams with “quip and repartee,” with colloquial lunges and ripostes in
carte and tierce, with unforced smartness and “good things” said no
less naturally than effectively.’

_THE SATURDAY REVIEW._--‘Louis Vintras ought to write a play. His
dialogue and epigrams are excellent.’




_Poetry Published at the Unicorn._


THE VINE DRESSER. By T. STURGE MOORE. Fcap. 8vo. cloth gilt, 5_s._ net.

_The Times._--‘Mr. Moore has an individual talent and a gift of
distinction. The first poem in the book--a recipe for making Coän wine,
supposed to have been “sent from Egypt with a fair robe of tissue to a
Sicilian vine-dresser, B.C. 276”--is like a cameo with its clear-cut
images of sea and Sicily.’


APHRODITE AGAINST ARTEMIS. A Play. By T. STURGE MOORE. Small 4to. cloth
gilt, 5_s._ net.

_The Pall Mall Gazette._--‘There is a growing sense of terror in the
scene, that raises the work to a point of high perfection; the gloom of
an advancing fate deepens gradually and imperceptibly, and the final
picture is grimly painted and expressive. This is a work of great
promise, the production of an earnest and sincere artist.’


THE CRIER BY NIGHT. A Play. By GORDON BOTTOMLEY. Fcap. 4to. half
parchment, 2_s._ 6_d._ net.

_The Literary World._--‘The best piece of work that so far he has made
public.... We hope Mr. Bottomley’s play will be put upon the stage.’


ODES. By LAURENCE BINYON. With a Woodcut Title-page after WILLIAM
STRANG. Crown 8vo. cloth gilt, 2_s._ 6_d._ net.

_The Athenæum._--‘Mr. Binyon is slowly but surely winning for himself
a distinguished place in the ranks of contemporary poetry. He has the
right temper; he does not cry aloud in the streets, or make any attempt
to catch the veering of the popular taste, but is content to write
for the sake of having written, with invariable sincerity of thought,
directness of vision, and conscientious craftmanship. The best of these
Odes are on the highest level of achievement.’


RUE. By LAURENCE HOUSMAN. Imp. 16mo. cloth gilt, 3_s._ 6_d._ net.

_The Pall Mall Gazette._--‘It is poetry, and not merely accomplished
verse.’


JOHN OF DAMASCUS. By DOUGLAS AINSLIE. Fcap. 8vo. half bound, 6_s._ net.
Third and greatly enlarged edition.

_The Outlook._--‘On the whole it is safe to say that we have not had
anything quite so spontaneous, so fresh, so deft, and so promising
for a considerable time past.... He rhymes you page upon page of the
soundest, frankest, and prettiest stuff, never getting out of breath,
never faltering or hesitating, and never tumbling into the sloughs and
quagmires that beset the long-winded.’


A SHORT DAY’S WORK. Original Poems, Translations, and Prose Essays. By
MONICA PEVERIL TURNBULL. With a Portrait. Crown 8vo. cloth gilt, 2_s._
6_d._ net. Third Edition.

_The Spectator._--‘A book which can be read through in an hour, but is
not likely to be forgotten in a lifetime.’


THE LITTLE CHRISTIAN YEAR. Medium 16mo. vellum gilt, 2_s._ 6_d._ net.

_The Pall Mall Gazette._--‘Signed everywhere with the sensitive
signature of intellectual emotion.’




_The Artist’s Library._

EDITED BY LAURENCE BINYON.

_The Volumes of the Artist’s Library are Foolscap Quartos (8½ × 6¾
inches). The Letterpress is on antique laid paper. The Illustrations
are all separately printed. The price is 2s. 6d. net each volume, in
paper boards, with cloth back, or 3s. 6d. net in buckram, extra gilt._


HOKUSAI. By C. J. HOLMES. With Twenty Full-page Plates, including Four
Plates printed in Colours. Second Edition.

_Le Mercure de France._--‘Ce beau volume est nécessaire à tous les
artistes et à tous ceux qui aiment l’art.’


GIOVANNI BELLINI. By ROGER E. FRY. With Twenty-three Full-page Plates,
including Three Photogravures. Second Edition.

_Literature._--‘A model of its kind. It is beautifully printed and
bound, and both letter-press and illustrations are exceptionally good.’


ALTDORFER. By T. STURGE MOORE. With Twenty-five pages of Illustrations,
most of them in tints.

_The Saturday Review_ (in two-column notice).--‘Mr. Sturge Moore is the
right sympathetic expounder of this half-childish secluded nature. His
own imagination, with its delight in quaint surprises of observation
and sharp simplicities of expression, fits him to handle an art that is
not for everybody, and at whose gates heavy trespassers should rather
be warned by notice-boards than strollers invited by guide-posts.’


GOYA. By WILL ROTHENSTEIN. With Twenty Full-page Plates, including
Three Photogravures and Nine Tinted Prints.

CONSTABLE. By C. J. HOLMES. With Twenty-four Full-page Plates.


NEW VOLUMES.

VAN DYCK. By LIONEL CUST. In Two Volumes.

HUBERT AND JOHN VAN EYCK. By FRANCIS C. WEALE. Revised by and based on
the researches of W. H. JAMES WEALE.

LEONARDO DA VINCI. By HERBERT P. HORNE.


_LITTLE ENGRAVINGS._

_Two Volumes of this Series are now ready. Full particulars will be
sent on application._


LONDON: AT THE UNICORN, VII. CECIL COURT, W.C.




Transcriber’s Notes

  • Italics represented with surrounding _underscores_.

  • Small caps converted to ALL CAPS.

  • Obvious typographic errors silently corrected.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SILVER NET ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


