The Project Gutenberg eBook of Here foloweth a lytell treatyse of the beaute of women newly translated out of Frenshe in to Englyshe
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Here foloweth a lytell treatyse of the beaute of women newly translated out of Frenshe in to Englyshe

Author: Anonymous

Release date: October 26, 2025 [eBook #77124]

Language: English

Original publication: London: Rycharde Fawkes, 1525

Credits: Chris Hapka and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HERE FOLOWETH A LYTELL TREATYSE OF THE BEAUTE OF WOMEN NEWLY TRANSLATED OUT OF FRENSHE IN TO ENGLYSHE ***



  This ebook, based on a book first published c. 1525, was created in
         honour of Distributed Proofreaders’ 25th Anniversary.




         Here foloweth a lytell treatyse of the Beaute of Women

            newly translated out of Frenshe in to Englyshe.

         [Illustration: A woman playing a stringed instrument.
        The border of the illustration contains the Latin motto:
              PECCATI FORMA FEMINA EST ET HORTIS CONDICIO]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

 The sōne of the mayde whome neuer none resembled
 In beaulte nor bounte syth the worlde began
 For both in hyr were perfaytely assembled
 Named is she Marye doughter to saynt Anne
 Guyde myne hande so that the gentylman
 That me desyred to reduce thys boke
 From frenshe to englyshe / be content / and than
 I take lytell cure what other there on loke.

 In frenshe (la beaute de femmes) is yt named
 The beaulte of women / in our Englyshe languag
 wherof to treate / I ought well to be blamed
 Consydered that I had neuer the vsage
 womens beaulte in body nor vysage
 For to regarde / and there vpon good reason
 Syth I am made (as an vnpleasant page)
 A cast a way from presence at eche season

 But what therof shall I leue of to wryte
 Syth no man hauyng more practyse then I
 wyll take the payne to set blacke on the whyte
 And yt a thynge so dygne of memory
 Nay trust me playne I shall my selffe applye
 Of the frenshe boke to folow the sentence
 Beaulte (as ryght requireth) to gloryfye
 what euer foloweth of the consequence

 what caused the wourthy Troylus of Troye
 To cast hys loue on Cresyde the shene
 why set Parys on fayre Helayne hys ioye
 what caused Achylles to loue Polexene
 why loued Trystram la belle Isoude the quene
 Or Arthur of bretayne the fayre Florence
 All cam of theyr beaulte and theyr plesant eyen
 what haue I to do as of the consequence.

 Beaulte as for the fyrste require wolde
 That the womam (how euer stande the case)
 Symple manyer and countenaunce sholde holde
 For otherwyse she wyll avoyde the place

 womans beaulte eche person reproueth
 yf so be that she bayre the countenaunce
 More eleuate or hygh than yt behoueth
 Hyr beaulte tourneth but all to dysplesance

 Beaulte requireth as for the seconde parte
 That woman bayre euer naturally
 Symple regade and not ouerthwarte
 wyth playsante and symple castyng of the eye

 Beaulte is lost in woman oultrely
 yf she haue thys of very condycyon
 As to regarde or loke dyspyteously
 For that is the manner of the lyon

 womans beaulte requireth thyrdely
 That stedfastly with out oultrage
 She kepe as dyscrete cōtynually
 Symple answer euer in her language

 womans beaulte that sholde be magnyfyed
 Lyetly compassed in these thre poyntes onely
 what beaulte so euer is to her applyed
 The woman ought to lede hyr lyffe symply

 Beaulte of suerty doeth that woman folowe
 That hath the browes and raynes of the backe
 And there withall the fete lyght and holowe
 yf these thre be holowe there is no lacke.

 Beaulte in woman is nothyng pleasant
 That glometh with her eyen with frowarde chere
 And is of hyr raynes so heuy and pesant
 And of hyr fete as yf a beest yt were

 womans beaulte shall ye fynde doubtlesse
 In thre hygh poyntes that on hyr body gent
 Ought for to be / & them I shall expresse
 Here after / yf my remembraunce assent

 Beaulte sayeth / the fyrst poynt to knowe
 The woman sholde haue the forhed hygh & fayre
 For whan she hath the forhed ouer lowe
 Euyll hyr besemeth a frontelet to bayre

 womans beaulte requyreth secondly
 Of beaulte a ryght who that enquire wolde
 That woman ought to haue the hed hygh
 The better therwyth hyr hat she doeth vpholde

 Beaulte in woman playnly doeth habounde
 yf she ne fayle as for the thyrde parte
 To haue the brestes hygh fayre and rounde
 wyth fyne gorgias well and fayre couert

 womans beaulte as in preemynence
 Requireth these thre poyntes pryncypall
 For to be founde vpon hyr corpulence
 And well on hyght they ought for to be all

 womans beaulte expresly for to showe
 As to the regarde of hyr countenaunce
 Requireth ouer thys to haue thre poyntes lowe
 whych all women ought to haue in remembraunce

 womans beaulte that pourchase wyll praysyng
 woll that the woman set her besy cure
 To maynteyne in hyr selfe a low laughyng
 To laugh ouer hygh besemeth no creature

 Beaulte yet cōmaundeth afterwarde
 Vnto all women thys poynt secondely
 To haue alwayes a lowely regarde
 Not ouer moche but moderately

 That woman hath the bent of beaultyes bowe
 That can regarde in helth and in dysease
 whan she shall neese to make the sounde but lowe
 To do otherwyse yt may no person please

 womans beaulte wyll in conclusyon
 Of these lowe poyntes without desloyaulte
 That women bere euer a lowly condycyon
 For otherwyse she leseth her beaulte.

 Beaulte demaundeth these poyntes to haue sene
 In women that be fayre and fayte at all
 To haue trayteys the browes / and traytys eyen
 And lytell the handes / traytys slendre and small

 Beaulte hath she that hath the chyn dympled
 The ioyntes of the handes sholde be in lyke manere
 The chekes also be they bare or wympled
 Especyally whan she smyleth with hyr chere.

 Beaulte requireth large to haue these thre
 The fyrste is the space goyng from eye to eye
 Betwyxt the sholdres sholde the seconde be
 The thyrde betwyxt the raynes ye shall espye.

 Perfayt beaulte ye may well determyne
 In woman / so that these thre in hyr repayre
 The nayles and the lyppes cōplexyon sanguyne
 And ruddy the chekes well vermayled and fayre

 womans beaulte thou doest well expose
 Or mayst expose wythout taryeng
 yf thou retayne in thy mynde close
 All that is set before in this wrytyng.

 Of beaulte yf there be any woman
 More purely sped than is cōprysed in this
 was neuer woman syth the worlde began
 So perfaytly sped of beaulte as she is

 I haue expressed theyr preemynence
 As well of theyr bodyes as of theyr mayntyen
 But speke what ye wyll apert or in scylence
 Beaulte sans bonte ne vault rien.

 Beaultyes there be in women infynyte
 But of bontyes there is but lytell speche
 Beaulte is them geuen as thyng requisyte
 who wyll haue bonte let hym go seche
 Thys not wythstandyng I coulde a man teche
 To fynde ryght good of the gendre feminyn
 And fayre also / but what euer we preche
 Beaulte sans bonte ne vault rien.

 Beaulte ennobleth the person doubtlesse
 And playnly she is of the more valeure
 But wyth beaulte is requisyte goodnesse
 To speke a ryght who so wyll sett hys cure
 Bonte wyll not be vnder coverture
 where euer she be / hyr purete is so fyne
 wherfore I set agayne in thys scrypture
 Beaulte sans bonte ne vault rien.

 Mayde / wyfe / or wydowe / dame / or damoysell
 That haue the raye of beaulte comprysed in your face
 Adiouste therto bonte / than shall ye do ryght well
 For beaulte with bonte assembled in a place
 Gyue demonstrance of an especyall grace
 Geuen to the person / & as I take the cause
 At syse smyleth bonte / where beaulte laugheth at ace
 As dayly yt is sene / and there a fynall clause.


                                F I N I S


 Thus endeth the Beaulte of women neuly Imprynted
 By Rycharde Fawkes dwellyng in duram rent

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          Transcriber’s Notes


New original cover art included with this ebook is granted to the public
domain.

Pilcrows, which separated the stanzas of the poem in the printed text,
have been omitted in this edition. Stanzas are instead separated by a
blank line.

The original printed edition did not use uppercase “w” or “y”, even at
the beginning of a line of verse. This has been retained in this
edition. All spellings, even those likely to be errors in printing (such
as “womam” for “woman” in the fifth stanza), have been left as in the
printed original. In the Latin motto on the title page, reproduced in
HTML and other illustrated versions, “HORTIS” is likely an error; it
should be “MORTIS.”





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HERE FOLOWETH A LYTELL TREATYSE OF THE BEAUTE OF WOMEN NEWLY TRANSLATED OUT OF FRENSHE IN TO ENGLYSHE ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


